u2016-06-07-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 34th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr István Ikotity will be taking part in the meeting. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Zsolt Molnár, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda:, Let us really talk about the safety of Hungarian people. It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Molnár has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that you are almost embarrassed to talk about something so important in front of such a crowd, because the safety of Hungarian people, among them the safety of European people, I think that it is equally important for all parties, and not only in words but also in actions. The European Football Championship is coming up in a few days, followed by an Olympics, and the security challenges of the past year and a half tell us that both Hungary and Europe have radically changed and, unfortunately, their chances for a safe everyday life have deteriorated. Under these changed security conditions, our daily lives must be arranged in such a way that terrorists do not achieve their goal, not fear and fear are part of their daily lives, but preparation and foresight are as important as avoiding panic and everyday life without fear. In this international context, we have two important decisions ahead of us today: one of them is the basic bill, which has been the topic of Hungarian public opinion for almost half a year, and the second is the broad package of proposals presented by the Ministry of Interior on more effective counter-terrorism. The process of amending the Fundamental Law was already technically unacceptable, since it was not treated either the Socialist Party or the other opposition parties as partners, but by sending messages through the media, essentially using party policy purposes to push through the amendment of the Fundamental Law, which, to be said, would no doubt seem more digestible than the original version, but it is quite clear that there is no need for a new special legal order from the point of view of being more digestible. Several attempts have been made by the ruling parties and the Ministry of Defence to demonstrate why such a special legal system is needed, but this has not succeeded convincingly at all. We have concluded that it will continue to serve party policy objectives and that propaganda should be kept on the agenda of this basic law proposal. Indeed, a debate on the status of defence should be opened, but this does not require another special legal order, but should sit down and review the situation of the defence in substance. The Socialist Party would be a partner in this, but the scapegoat that goes on around here tells us that this is not really the goal, it is not the settlement of the status of the defence, it is actually the search for faulty and scapegoats by the governing parties. A package of proposals from the Ministry of Interior has been submitted, which has reached the level of the ineligible level after many months of negotiation. He's been through a lot of changes. They have adopted opposition proposals, including the Socialist Party's proposal to amend the criminal code substantially, so that acts of terrorism can be prevented and easier for the police and prosecutors to prove, propaganda, funding and preparation can be punished in order not to have to wait for someone to commit terrorist acts with Kalashnikov or with a bomb breast. Proposals violating the rule of law have been removed from the package of laws. Without the need for completeness, I would highlight the permanent restriction of mass events and the criminal liability of users and app service providers, as they would have been unacceptable. Therefore, the Socialist Group has decided to support this, of course, by putting party politics aside for the safety of Hungarian and European people. However, as chairman of the National Security Committee, I would like to say that we will keep strict and thorough supervision of the newly established secret service, Tibek, who also has a coordinating secret service function, and we will be exercising increased control of it from the time it was established. To sum up: we ask the governing parties not to be tied today - in football language - so support for the terror package and rejection of the Fundamental Law should not be 1:1, but the Hungarian people should win and the security of the Hungarian people should win: withdraw the basic bill, support the draft law of the terror package, and start a meaningful dialogue on the status of defence, how to help the police and national security services in the event of a serious situation, but this does not require another special legal order. We ask the ruling parties and the ruling party not to make party politics out of the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since 2013, Hungary has been subject to increased and increasing migratory pressure. This is confirmed by the figures: 44,000 people arrived illegally in 2014 and more than 417 thousand people in 2015 by crossing the green border. The majority of these migrants are not real refugees, but they have only applied for asylum in order to circumvent the legislation in order to continue to travel to other countries of the European Union, in particular Germany. Their only goal was to make a better living. In the European Union, Hungary was the first to stand for it, and we have clearly said from the outset that the external borders of the European Union, the Schengen external borders, must be protected by all countries. Hungary acted accordingly, since we created a triple protection. We created physical protection, the fence was built on the Hungarian-Serbian border and on the Hungarian-Croatian border. In September 2015, the Parliament adopted legal protection here at the beginning of September. We've changed over a dozen laws. We've created a lively defense, strengthened the police, formed border-hunting squadrons within the police framework, and allowed the military to take part in the defence of the border. We all remember the pictures at the end of August 2015, beginning of September, when the Keleti Railway Station was literally occupied by these illegal migrants. Or we remember the pictures that took place at the crossing point in Röszke in mid-September 2015, when migrants stormed the Hungarian border, and the Hungarian police had to defend the border, the country, Hungary, by exerting their strength. So we clearly said that borders must be protected, the external borders of Schengen protected and that no one should enter the territory of Hungary or the European Union illegally. Following the serious, brutal acts of terrorism in Paris on 13 November 2015 and then in Brussels on 22 March 2016, it was clear that the security regime in force until then was not sufficient to strengthen these measures, these laws, and therefore new rules are needed for the Hungarian authorities, law enforcement agencies, services and the Counter-Terrorism Centre in order to ensure the safety of people in this serious security situation, because it has become clear to everyone that terrorism can be linked to immigration, and therefore new laws are needed. That is why the Government initiated T/10307 on the amendment of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism. In the framework of the legislative proposal submitted to the Council, we have proposed significant legislative proposals and a number of amendments to the legislation on this very important issue. That's why the Ministry of Interior has had several rounds of consultations. We thank the parliamentary parties, including the Hungarian Socialist Party, for their participation in this conciliation process, which was an important element, and we have said from the outset that we do not require any more tools for the Hungarian authorities than the authorities, services, police and counter-terrorism units of the Western European countries had. [[9.10]] This is very important, and we will decide on this today, and Parliament will decide on this proposal today. With the adoption of the proposal, an organisation will be set up that has the necessary information, knowledge and capacity to ensure effective action at the same time against perpetrators of international and domestic terrorism and organised crime, which is the basis for it, as well as of increasingly violent crimes. This will be the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Center. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this T/10307. I also ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment of the basic law, as it also serves the safety of the Hungarian people, and the rules on the legal status of the defence serve this purpose. For whom the security of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, the security of the Union is important, please support our proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2016-06-07-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech before the agenda from the group of the LMP on the occasion of Pedagogism Day. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, On Sunday we celebrated Teacher's Day, we would have celebrated it more accurately. Normally, educator day is really about celebrating, recognising teachers, honoring their work. It's just that there's been no normal circumstances lately. Since the adoption of the Public Education Act in 2011, LMP has said that the nationalised school system is a bad model. Since 2011, we have been saying that teachers should not be burdened, that they should be limited. You can't dictate from top to bottom in every field, you can't put on any part of your education. The nationalization was accompanied by a serious withdrawal of funds. The sources of education have been declining since 2003, with a reduction of a third of GDP-related funding for the duration of Fidesz-KDNP governance. Only since 2010, over six years, 200 billion forints are deducted from the operation of the school system each year, and this is missing on an annual basis. And now, when the KLIK is practically bankrupt, they want to give back some of the funding they took. But in vain, because the total nationalization that is being done right now, that even the municipalities who have chosen to do so will be deprived of the right to operate, this could entail extra costs that will not be covered even by the current amendment, the smearing of the municipalities. Nationalisation and continuous austerity have affected teachers worse than ever before. In addition to the deterioration of working conditions, let us give some negative examples. The workload of teachers increased more than the rate of wage increases, not only by the end of the year, but even in the middle of the year, there was an amazing amount of fatigue in schools, but because of the stupidities of the education system, not only the teachers, but all the staff working at the school, even the students, are very tired. They prescribed a completely unnecessary compulsory school stay as 80 percent of the official working time on paper alone. This will increase the burden and make working conditions worse. Teachers have no say in the appointment of school leaders and directors. In many cases, institutional leaders are forced from above to the faculty, which is the source of many conflicts. In addition, employers' rights were taken from the directors. They have virtually lost their say in the choice of curricula, textbooks and teaching methods. They don't trust them, so they don't seem to be considered free and autonomous. The government often refers to a teacher's wage increase, but we always remind them: in violation of the promises made to teachers, the increase was only given in several instalments, and, moreover, immediately after the election, the automatic wage increase was stopped, the increase of teachers' wages was separated from the increase in the minimum wage. Besides, what is most serious is that, unlike in the past, the teacher's career has become unpredictable, there is fear and uncertainty in the teachers' rooms. Again, he quotes the socialism of the 1950s and 1960s, the fact that teachers are often called to account for how they please. This is not a round of applause for who stops applause first, but for who likes what and why on social media. Self-conscious thoughts, especially when someone disagrees with the government's education policy, are treated very badly in the district. Being a teacher is also a profession, but only if it involves trust, freedom and responsibility. Today, we are not going in this direction, but on the contrary, they are pushing the bicycle in the wrong direction. There's a total nationalization of the school system coming up, and they're debauching vocational high school education. Meanwhile, teachers' problems are essentially not being solved. The education society's stand has been ignored by the government, their proposals have been swept away. We also know from the Teachers' Union that teachers have been deceived again, that many promised measures have been omitted from the latest salad law. Dear House, LMP sends a message to the government to create calm and predictable conditions in schools, trust teachers, give them leeway, consider them partners. We asked society to help and support teachers, because they are in a very bad situation right now. They need to be helped not only by words but also by concrete steps and by giving them the respect they deserve. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you have said, honourable Member, half of the first half of it may have some kind of reality in an elite school in Budapest. But if you step out of the world of the Nagykörút and look at Hungary as a whole, you might actually be able to meet the rebuttal of your own sentences 30 kilometers from Budapest, because the kind of approach you say may be beneficial to some elite schools, but if you look at the country as a whole, this is not the case. If you read only your own speech, honourable Member, at the beginning of which you say that the teachers are overwhelmed, the students are overwhelmed, and then at the end of your own speech you say that the school teaches little and makes students dumb, then you can see that there is no unity in your own thinking, in your own criticism, because you say that you are teaching too much at the same time, and you say that you are too little, at the same time that you are overworked, and you say that you are demented at the same time. At least decide which direction you choose in communication, but the fact that you say the same and the opposite in five minutes as a government criticism means that it is not a coherent criticism, not a conversation with teachers, but a simple political cross-section. We have tried to give the teachers the greatest possible respect and the social appreciation of this career, as we know that by 2010 there has been a huge amount of money taken out of the pockets of teachers and schools, that in fact by 2010... - you have put it very well, Congressman, because you have said precisely that the share of spending on education has decreased by one third by 2010. So if it fell by a third by 2010, that was obviously the situation that Fidesz-KDNP inherited. It's a clever rhetorical solution, it didn't explain every part of the truth, I have to say rhetorically, it's a good one, but it's very misleading in the presentation of reality, what you said. So, indeed, between 2008 and 2010, spending on education was reduced by more than 10 percent, while GDP itself fell. We inherited a situation like this. [[9.20]] If I look at the taking of the 13th month's wages: 17 billion forints minus, which is 78 billion forints overall, which the socialists removed from the education system, they closed the educational institutions at 381 places of task supply, and I could tell you what the 200 billion forints were made up of. However, we wanted to give back the social value of this career, which is why we were the first among the sectors to advertise the career program in which there was a very large increase in wages, with a budget plus increase of HUF 34 billion in the first year, then 120 and over 30 billion each year. If you support next year's budget today and next Monday, you will be able to provide an additional HUF 38 billion on the salaries of teachers. However, if they do not support it, they do not support the extra HUF 38 billion, which includes a financial wage increase for teachers. Of course, this has sub-elements that show how much we want to spend on quality wages, as 14 billion out of this 38 billion goes specifically to encourage quality. The most important thing for students is to be as prepared as possible for their teachers, who are teachers from grade I, teacher II. They want to step up or move forward as a master educator, or they want to move forward as a research teacher. For them, the budget for next year plus HUF 14 billion is included as an incentive for their quality work compared to the previous one. It also shows that we are trying to start from students, and those who make the greatest sacrifices for students and even try to train themselves or move them to higher levels, are given special extra support from the budget. Another important way in which we tried to honor teachers is by convening the public education round table [[István Ikotity goes to the expert box and talks there.]] I'd be happy to talk to your back, Congressman, but I didn't listen to you with my back. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is also a form of respect - where we tried to channel the opinion of practicing teachers and school principals. In eight working groups, we tried to improve the work of the public education round table from week to week, where it was needed, and I say that this work was a success, because Parliament has a large set of laws that we try to resolve issues arising from previous problems of operation and maintenance, because for everything the responsibility will be in one hand, the management of education will be unified, and this will increase by increasing the cost of running by 100 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2016-06-07-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From Jobbik's Group, or did Semmelweis plan 3:0 - or has the wind of change arrived in Budapest? Mr Lajos Rig has applied for an address before the agenda. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 3.0, therefore, is not 3:0 in favour of the Semmelweis plan, but rather to its disadvantage. I think that if we look back on the past decades, it can be said that after the socialists' health destruction, the health destruction of Fidesz has continued. We also remember the time when we placed tapes with unconscious patients, and this is the crime of the socialists, and the visitation fee was introduced, and then hospitals that turned out to be needed were shut down. It arrived in 2010, when the then Fidesz government placed on the table a stunt called the Semmelweis Plan, one of the aims and appropriations of which was to structurally transform rural hospitals. The reason was that it would make the system more economical, sustainable, transparent and much more manageable the debt accumulated in hospitals over the years. However, the years and experiences have shown that this transformation has failed, has failed and has not fulfilled its expectations. I said that economic efficiency was the aim of rationalisation and restructuring. Many classes have been closed down, transferred to other hospitals, turned into small regional hospitals, turned into small hospitals, such as hospitals in Tapolca or Körmend, where healing activities were carried out that served the safety of residents and visitors. The government has spent 500 billion on renovations nationwide, whether it is the energy efficiency investment of health institutions or rescue stations, or the creation of new rescue stations, which I think is commendable. I needed this, I should've done it ten years ago, and it's always been mentioned in their answer. However, in recent days, it was discovered that the wind of change had arrived in Budapest. In the past, we were talking about a super hospital, and now they are trying to create three emergency centers in Budapest that would solve the health care of the residents of Budapest. We support this, because Jobbik's basic concept was not to provide a super hospital for health care in Budapest and the agglomeration, but for three. However, we have marked a large hospital in Buda with a bright past, a very good supply, and this is a large hospital named after St. John's Hospital, St. John the Baptist - if you call yourself Christian Democrats - in which 1 million outpatients are treated annually. Here they want to eliminate 744 active beds and move them to a place where their approach is not good, and their accessibility is very difficult. Not everyone goes by subway and public transport, there are a lot of visitors who want to visit their relatives in the car, and that is not possible. However, there is the St. John's Hospital, which is in the right place, in a calm environment, very good accessibility, and even the hospital's management put a concept of renovation on the table years ago, which we believe is feasible. If you look at the numbers, how much the government would like to spend on creating the three new super-hospitals, you will notice a price-value imbalance. I mentioned earlier that the government was planning 500 billion for the renovation of rural hospitals and the construction of rescue stations, i.e. 500 billion for the establishment of the three new super-hospitals in Budapest, and 335 billion for the establishment of the three new super-hospitals in Budapest. In my opinion, even if we divide this into a hospital, it's still a lot. So the question arises: what do you intend to do with St. John's Hospital? The first is: is St. John's Hospital out of active care, they want to install chronic care there, and they're trying to convert St. John's Hospital into a chronic nursing home? Or the B-variation, which is worst-case scenario, is being placed in the hands of stromones, sold out, and they want to perform some kind of hotel or higher convenience care there. Jobbik completely rejects that. We are going to start collecting signatures among the residents there, and I think that there is 100% support here, because St. John's Hospital is the hospital for the people of Buda and the people there, if they are taken away from them, it is like tearing a piece out of their hearts. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Congressman, thank you very much for correcting the title, but I am bound by what is in your announcement, and unfortunately it has a 3:0 in it. I was looking to find out who the opponent was, because only the Semmelweis plan was marked on one side, and I couldn't find the other. My apologies, but the president-in-chief can't change the announcement. Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Once you visit St. John's Hospital in person, you will meet the statue of St. John of Nepomuki at the entrance. But I only memorized that by the way. As regards the development of hospitals over the past period, you yourself have indicated that the government has tried to make decades of delays in health care with HUF 500 billion. Where, for more than 100 billion of this 500 billion, equipment was replaced for exactly 104 billion, there was a place where 30-40 years of medical instruments had to be replaced, which apparently have not provided adequate care for the age for decades. This HUF 104 billion, as well as the HUF 322 billion spent on hospital infrastructure, came primarily to the countryside. Thus, in the countryside, the hospital, which meets the so-called superhospital requirements, has been built in several places 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, 366 days a year and serves the sick. [[9.30]] In the countryside we can call several hospitals a super hospital, but at the same time Budapest is at a relatively disadvantage. Of course, you called it destruction when you spend HUF 500 billion to improve the health situation, which has not been experienced in Hungary for generations, that this magnitude of development has flowed into health care from both domestic and EU sources. If you call it destruction, I don't know what the good guys call construction. I believe that the highest level of health development has been achieved at generation level over the last six years, especially in the countryside. We therefore need to create similar developments in Budapest compared to this result. The government's goal was to increase the number of years in health for everyone by one year. This has an important role to play in public health programmes, it has an important role in prevention, it has an important role in strengthening basic care. But it is equally important to improve the state of hospitals. Therefore, if we have already done this in the countryside, it is important that Budapest is also established here, as I have already said, this complex, multi-professional, emergency center, which serves patients on a site every day of the year. I believe that the restructuring of emergency care in Budapest in early April has already demonstrated that the government's organisational capabilities in the area of health restructuring in Budapest are good, as the quality of care has improved since then. But if we consider patient safety aspects important, then yes, this hospital development in Budapest is necessary. No one can say that the decisions will be made in haste or haste in this regard, as last year we have already provided HUF 1 billion in the budget for preparation this year. The reason why this had to be set for a relatively longer period of time and for a larger budget is because there are many alternatives and many opportunities. In Budapest, the transport aspects of Budapest are very important, in addition to taking into account the needs of the population and the needs of those living in the agglomeration. On the one hand, there is a need for ambulances to move as quickly as possible either from Budapest or from the immediate environment to these hospitals. It's obviously in favour of locations as far as possible. At the same time, it is also important to be able to access control and follow-up tests as easily as possible. It is important not only by car, as you said, Congressman, but there must be many people in Budapest who want to or can get to the hospital by public transport, bus, trolley, tram, metro. This, on the other hand, is in favour of choosing a location as far as possible. It is also important, as I said, that all care must be provided in one place. We don't think the super-hospitals to be set up at many locations are a very good solution. It needs to be concentrated in one place, which is the best way to enforce patient safety. So we need a location, locations where we can easily, easily, from multiple directions, and subsequently easily achieve these many professions in one place, by ambulances, and easily accessible to patients for control tests or preventive examinations. That is why the government has decided on the locations previously described. This will, of course, affect the entire provision in Budapest, so not only the locations have been examined by the specially asked minister, but also that if these focal points and nodes are created through the development, which means hundreds of billions of HUF of health development in Budapest, then how will this also reorganize the other supply maps. Therefore, there is no need to fear the horrors that you are saying, honourable Member, and Jobbik has stressed in the last three days about St. John's Hospital. Of course, those living in that area will continue to have good care and better care will be created during development. This government is a government that develops hospitals, builds a hospital in Budapest, so no one has to fear that any care in its vicinity will cease. It's just gonna change to better quality. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I'm asking you to try and keep up the time frame. For a pre-meeting speech from the KDNP Group, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann asked for a speech with the title "Editors." Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-06-07-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, On the weekend left behind, two good days gave us the opportunity to remember and celebrate. In view of the fact that both of us are affected, so to speak, the Christian Democratic People's Party's Party considers it important to talk about these two good days and their content here in the house of the country. Even more so after the two are closely linked. In his speech yesterday before the agenda, Mr Firtl spoke about the day of national solidarity. I, myself, want to talk about educators, respect for educators, about teacher's day. And yes, the two are connected, because it's the school that gives the children the knowledge of historical events, the ones that led to the day of national cohesion. It is the school that takes the children on a trip across the border to get to know our historical monuments in reality. However, the school, and if you will allow me now, I quote Mr. Richard Korzenszky, a well-respected Benedictine educator, who will not become a school from curricula and textbooks. It's not the building's equipment that depends on whether a school is good or not. We need more important, we need real commitment, we need to tear ourselves apart, we need people ready to distribute, we need to take the children by the hand, and we need to lead them up to life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yeah, they lead him up to life. This is a high profession that deserves respect and demands respect. That's why it's only in the tone of respect that you have to talk about educators. Those whom we respect, we adjust, we consider as examples, but we also set high standards for them. What is the source of respect? It could, of course, be an external source, such as the state, society, the appreciation of the community, a status symbol, a higher salary. This may be its source, but its true source is the person himself, the profession which carries out the task that commands respect and deserves respect. It's the work that gets through their everyday life and their weeks. Few people know how a teacher's everyday life goes, how his weeks go. Each afternoon, he begins his activities by considering what happened that day and the day before in his class, reviewing his curricula, thinking about what he wants to achieve the next day, what kind of task he needs to have that child and that class do in order to develop. Then he fixes papers, designs and organizes class trips, performs the necessary diaries and administration. Yeah, in this job, he gets tired, as we've heard. But please, who doesn't get tired, who does their job diligently and honestly? The secretary of state gets tired, the farmer gets tired, the truck driver gets tired, the bus driver and the car driver get tired, because the work done is exhausting. At the same time, this tiredness gives you the opportunity to rest. Teacher's day is like that. Teacher's work is like that. They say that the work of the educator is the most ungrateful, but also the most grateful. It is ungrateful because you do not see the result immediately, often only after years, decades, but the most grateful is because you see this result. And this result returns. On the occasion of Teacher's Day, I had the opportunity to attend a ceremony in my village where gold and silver graduates were greeted. Respect, appreciation, and recollection were returning words of rigour. Yes, once again I quote the words of Prior Richard Korzenszky: " Society will not be changed by economic policy, but by human quality. The human quality that these teachers provide. Teacher's Day was introduced in the darkest communist years in this country. At the time of the change of system, there was a weak protest that it should be abolished. I didn't make it. It's okay. So, at least one day, society's attention will be focused on them. Last week, Bonis Bona gave medals to the minister, and this afternoon he greets the excellent educators. Allow me to symbolically welcome all the teachers in this country and thank you for your work with this flower. [[She's showing me a rose.]] Thank you. [[9.40]]
u2016-06-07-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The secretary-general, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would, of course, join you, and I believe that everyone in this Parliament who is doing the most important thing for families, the child's education and education for 8-12 years is also respected. I think they're doing a very important mission, a mission, which is why they have special respect for both families and the state. It is also important that the congresswoman has also tried to address the substantive issues, because the system transformation that has taken place in the system of public education is all a preparatory step, a secondary step in order to say that the surplus of content, the renewal of content, can happen, which is obviously necessary for every period, from time to time. We do not deal with the formal issues of public education because it would be a self-target, but because we want to create a system in which we create equal conditions for content learning, development, moral and knowledge development, equal opportunities for small settlements, large settlements, Eastern Hungary, Western Hungary, the capital and rural areas. Our goal is not to feel abandoned, not to feel abandoned or in a difficult situation when teaching in a more difficult area, in a school in a more difficult area, is to receive the same support from the state as teaching in a better neighborhood. And a student should not feel abandoned to find his teacher in one of the places outside his class and help him prepare, either in the field of talent care or in the field of catching up, whether they want to tutor him or prepare him for a study competition, but in all schools he will find the teacher who can help him. Therefore, it is important to have a state guarantee that creates predictable conditions in all schools. Obviously, there are schools in a better neighborhood, and there was no problem with how they could provide financial coverage from one school year to another, but there were parts of the country where this was a problem. Therefore, this type of public responsibility and background assurance is very important in terms of quality improvement, but this can only be the preparation of the content renewal and the development of content, but without it, the development of content cannot be achieved. There have been important results in the recent round table on public education, where we have all discussed these issues. It is enough to think about the deadline for the adoption of the concept of the new NAP, which is December 31, 2016, and the adoption of the new NAT next year, December 31, 2017. As early as August of this year, new study curriculum proposals will be published, either in the field of Hungarian language and literature or in the field of mathematics, in the field of social or natural culture, which will be recommendations and help teachers work. The new system of institution maintenance, which can also be adopted following a bill to be adopted today and next week, provides schools with a kind of framework management with expanding employers' rights, since, with the exception of appointment and dismissal, employers' rights can be with the school principal. In addition, institutional leaders have both management and professional autonomy, without prejudice, of course, to the fact that if anyone from any school transfers their children to any school, there should not be such large differences between schools and schools as they were in 2010. Our goal is to improve quality in schools that are more difficult. Of course, this can only be expected in any case if additional resources are added by the government. The additional funding for this year's budget is HUF 91.5 billion for operations and HUF 105.6 billion for the next year, if we take the basic proposal for this year as a base. We have also tried to make the situation more secure for teachers with less than seven years of service, who will retire within seven years. In their case, the teacher II. The increase in salary of 28-31 thousand HUF was guaranteed, and the temporary teacher II. educator II. They're in gear. We have also made the retirement rules more predictable, precisely so that the students' schedule during the year will not be blocked. As I said, it is important that within the teacher's wage increase, which will be HUF 34.4 billion next year, HUF 14 billion is specifically used for quality work. I think that if these changes were supported from the opposition side, that would be fine, but if they were not, we would try to make the framework of quality work predictable from the government side, which is in the interest of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Fidesz Group, MEP Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has applied for a speech before the agenda:. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-17	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. It is a month until the NATO summit in Warsaw, and in a few days we will ratify Montenegro's accession to NATO, among the first ones, by the way. What is at stake in this summit, my dear House? I believe that the most important thing at stake in this summit is whether we will be able to respond to the new security situation that cannot be separated from Russia's military aggression in recent years in its neighbourhood, Georgia, Ukraine. In this new security policy situation, the Welsh Summit has already set short-term adaptation targets, but I believe that long-term adaptation will be a key forum for the NATO Summit in Warsaw. The choice of location is symbolic, as the alliance is already trying to demonstrate our solidarity with Poland. Yes, federal solidarity will perhaps be the most important forum of the NATO summit, and the countries of allied solidarity should be Poland and the three Baltic republics. I consider it important to decide that NATO will strengthen Poland and the three Baltic Republics with four battalions. NATO will now provide permanent stationing in these countries, although it is not permanent stationing, but the alliance will resolve the fact that the kind of concern, the security fear that these countries feed, can compensate. I think it is very important for the Hungarian government to decide that the Visegrad countries will strengthen the security of the Baltic countries in 2017 with a further battalion, so the Baltic countries will not only have three but four battalions stationed in 2017. Secondly, the very important component of this long-term adaptation is that we are now approaching the 2% share of our defence budget, and I consider it an important achievement that we will already be spending 1 percent of Hungary's GDP on the defence budget this year, which is a significant achievement, although this is still far from 2 percent. At the same time, I think it is very important that we will increase our defence budget by 0.1 percent per year over the next ten years, and this will make it a realistic objective to reach 2% by 2026. What does this reflect on the part of Hungary? On the part of Hungary, it reflects what we have seen, almost without exception, from all European allies, thanks to God, that a new kind of European security awareness has been created in recent years. Europe cannot be the sole beneficiary of the US security umbrella, we must devote resources to our own security. Thirdly, there will also be a summit to strengthen the policy of open doors. By ratifying Montenegro's accession first or first, Hungary demonstrates its commitment to achieving stability in the Western Balkans. [[9.50]] The Western Balkans will thus take the path of Euroatlantic integration; NATO and we hope that accession to the European Union will soon come. Cooperation with the Balkan countries and NATO cooperation with the Eastern partners reflect the historic challenge posed by the stabilisation of the Eastern Partnership and the Western Balkans. So I would like to sum up, Mr President. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a strong NATO could be the summit of the Warsaw Summit, but a strong Central Europe, a united Central Europe, is essential to this, and this can also contribute to the creation of a strong Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats and, if possible, to listen quietly, as Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I certainly agree with the Member on the question that our interest in Hungary's defence capabilities is at a significant pace and a continuous improvement of our interests in the Federal and Member States. We strive to deliver on our NATO commitments, and we have a very precise timetable for how we can achieve this, in what time frame. Honourable Congressman, There is no doubt that NATO is facing strategic challenges, these strategic challenges are coming from several directions, and in this sense, Warsaw and the concept of solidarity are completely consistent with us. We also expect the forthcoming summit to strengthen the solidarity of allies and the cohesion of the transatlantic community, and we expect and support a geographically balanced and comprehensive East and South approach in order to maintain the federal unity. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, This means that the Hungarian Government has set out in five points the steps that we need to take in the coming years in order to respond effectively and effectively to these strategic challenges as part of NATO. First of all, honourable Member, it has been decided to extend the period of the GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP increase until 2022 to the period 2023-2026, so that in the next ten years we will fully approach the 2-percent NATO standard that will be met with great effort in the foreseeable future. Honourable Congressman, Last year, we provided protection for the Baltic airspace, and since we have an understanding of the security needs of our eastern NATO allies, the Baltic States, we will maintain our military presence and support for the Baltic States. It has been decided that a century of Hungarian forces will be deployed in 2017 in the Baltic, V4 framework, and we have had very specific discussions with our V4 partners on the specifics of this military presence. This is important strategic decision number 2 that the government has taken in terms of developing our NATO capabilities and our solidarity as an ally. Congressman, in the context of NATO's defence capabilities development programme for the southern challenges, Hungary is ready to provide Jordan with training, and Jordanian officers will be trained by Hungarian experts and bomb technicians. There is currently a debate on whether NATO should play a formal role in the fight against ISIL, but it should be pointed out that our country is also performing above average in this regard - we are present in Kurdistan with 150 soldiers and we are actively taking part in the fight against ISIL Daesh's barbaric terrorists. According to the government's latest decision, Hungary will continue its military presence in the NATO mission in Afghanistan after 2016 and we will extend our annual contribution of half a million dollars to the development of Afghan security forces for the period 2018-2020. Prior to the NATO summit, the ratification of Montenegro's NATO accession protocol will be one of the priority events of the Hungarian foreign and security policy, as the Member has mentioned. The Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkan countries remains one of the most important aspirations of Hungarian foreign policy, not only Montenegro, but also the other coming countries, especially Macedonia, will receive full Hungarian support for these efforts. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to inform you that a decision has been made on a major capability development programme, which will involve the renovation of helicopters in the near future. This also increases Hungary's ability to contribute to the Hungarian support of NATO's collective security doctrine. Honourable Congressman, It is clear from all this that Hungary remains committed to meeting NATO's commitments, recognising the security challenges facing Europe and the NATO Alliance in a number of directions. We will continue to do our best to ensure that there is no doubt among our allies that Hungary is a predictable, long-term and stable partner of all its allies within the framework of NATO. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we expect this to be confirmed by the Warsaw Summit for the other Member States. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines, as decisions are to be taken. I would also ask you to follow closely what the chairman will say to you during this meeting. I'll wait for Minister Sesztak to take his place. Thank you very much, Minister. Following is the T/10725 on the announcement of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organization on the establishment of the World Health Organisation's Budapest Centre. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10725. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/10632. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10632/9, and T/10632/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 5 and the MSZP Group's amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 130 against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 3 is the motion of Dezső Incredible. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. [[10.00]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10632/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the summation amendment 127 yes, 62 not by vote, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1063/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 128 yeses, 62 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Following up is T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes to 126, with 6 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10727. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill 127 yeses, 37 votes not, with 27 abstentions. It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. T/10518. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10518/7 and T/10518/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10518/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 158 yes, 4 votes against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10518/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 yeses, 4 votes against and 56 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/10399 on the amendment of Act T/10399. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10399/10 and T/10399/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/10399/10 of the Fidesz Group. The Group of the KDNP Group initiated a separate vote on points 1, 3 and 8 of the consolidated amendment proposal and on points 6 and 9. In view of the context, we will decide together between the request for a separate vote on points 1, 3, 8 and points 6 and 9 of the summary amendment proposal. In points 1, 3 and 8 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. Article 3 (1) (a) and (3) (b) the amendment of Section 7 of the Act and the new Article 7 of the Act. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. I would like to draw your attention to the need for two thirds of the Members of Parliament present to vote in favour of the adoption of the proposed amendments points. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 1, 3 and 8 of the summarised amendment. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the amendment points by 158 yes, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. In points 6 and 9 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall draw up a new bill of 6 and 8. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 6 and 9 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the amendment points by 158 yes, 35 no votes, with 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10399/10. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the other points of the summary amendment by 157 yes, 35 no votes, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/10399/14. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/10399/14 will accept it. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority were adopted by 158 votes, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/10399/14 will accept it. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority 157 yes, 36 not votes, with 1 abstention. [[10.10]] Dear Parliament, It follows that T/10723. on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of Act... of 2016 on State officials Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10723/7. T/10723/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that this is 3, 14, 15. 13, 16, 17 and 21/15. A qualified majority is required for the adoption of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 and the decision is taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10723/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 37 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10723/7. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 36 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the T/10723/9. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10723/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 152 votes in favour, 37 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10723/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 151 votes in favour, 37 against and 5 abstentions. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows that T/10307 on the amendment of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10307/17. T/10307/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments Nos 3, 5 and 7 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 was proposed by András Schiffer and Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 151 against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by András Schiffer and Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 11 votes in favour, 152 against and 32 abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by András Schiffer and Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 127 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 to 3, 5 to 7 and 13 to 15, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10307/17. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 186 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on additional points that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10307/17. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 185 votes to six, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/10307/20. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10307/20. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 185 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to choose between the next pages, and it's gonna take a few seconds. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10307/20. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 182 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 3 abstentions. T/10416 on the sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law follows. Final vote of proposal No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3 and 6 and the Jobbik Group of the amendment No 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. I would like to draw your attention to the need for 133 Members to vote in favour in order to maintain the proposed amendments. Amendment 3 is the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 127 against and nine abstentions. [[10.20]] Amendment 6 is also the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 128 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 7 is the proposal of Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 130 against and six abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and there was no amendment to the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal submitted in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament, which is 133 in this case. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/10416 on the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 153 votes to 13, with 1 abstention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, T/10417 on the amendment of individual laws to the terrorist threat situation Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is the motion of András Schiffer. A qualified majority is required to maintain it, two thirds of those present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal of András Schiffer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 128 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as defined in the cardinality provision of the bill, the bill is considered to be fundamental on the basis of the relevant sections of the Fundamental Law, and therefore the adoption of a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is necessary. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10417. Bill No. 1. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 152 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/10523 on the amendment of energy laws for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10523/6. T/10523/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10523/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 4 against and 61 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/10523/8. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10523/8. The provision of a single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provision of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 157 votes in favour, 6 against and 31 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10523/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 129 votes in favour, 6 against and 59 abstentions. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets follows a series of steps. T/10718. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10718/6. T/10718/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 2, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10718/6. Point requiring a qualified majority in its summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, 32 against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10718/6. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 33 against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. Please note that T/10718/8. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10718/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote nak ! [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 186 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10718/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 185 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, The election of a member of the Independent Police Complaints Board will follow. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidate and his family members, to the present members of the Panel of Complaints, to all the permanent guests of the Parliament, to our dear guests who will monitor the vote on the spot in box 4. XXXIV of 1994 on the police force Law 6/A On the basis of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of Parliament shall, on a joint proposal from the Judicial Committee and the Defence and Police Committee, be appointed by S/11018. Mr Kozma Ákos is proposed as a member of the Independent Police Complaints Board, with effect from 23 July 2016. The proposal is available to everyone on the website. According to the provisions of the law, the member of the body shall be elected by the Parliament by the vote of two thirds of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the President of the Parliament S/11018. Kozma will elect Ákos as a member of the Independent Police Complaints Board on his proposal No. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Ákos Kozma as a member of the Independent Police Complaints Board with 153 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstentions. [[Applause from the pro-government lines and the LMP benches.]] Dear Parliament, We now come to the solemn oath of the elected member of the Independent Police Complaints Board and to the signature of the oath. With all due respect, Mr. Ákos Kozma, please come to the centre of the Chamber and take your oath. I ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the oath text according to our traditions, and I ask Members of Parliament to listen to the oath in accordance with our traditions and custom. Now I ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath document for signature, and Mr. Ákos Kozma, elected, to sign it after taking his oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Ákos Kozma steps into the middle of the room. Attila Móring József reads the text of the oath.]]
u2016-06-07-21	I, Ákos Kozma, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my membership of an independent law enforcement complaint body for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2016-06-07-22	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament to sit down. Mr. Ákos Kozma, please take the chair and sign the oath. [[It's happening.]] Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the recently re-elected member of the Independent Police Complaints Board, and wish you every success, strength and health of your work. Happy birthday. After the congratulations, we will continue our work. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. T/10537. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10537/18. , with a summary report from T/10537/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of Article 5 of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10, and the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 6 and 7 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 9 is also proposed by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 124 against and 28 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and Zoltán Gőgös. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 125 against and without abstention. Amendment 10 is proposed by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 121 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by László György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 124 against and four abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 123 against and 32 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 2 of the Fidesz Group is the T/10537/18. A separate vote was initiated on points 12, 49 and 107 of the proposed amendment. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee proposed a new 16. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. We will decide at the request of the Fidesz Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 182 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. In point 49 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt the text of Article 87 of the bill. It proposes adding a new point 3. We vote at Fidesz's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 49 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point without a vote, 155 with no vote and 33 abstentions. In point 107 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee proposes to add new points 6 and 7 to Annex 1 to the bill. We'll decide at Fidesz's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 107 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 156 votes in favour, 4 against and 29 abstentions. [[10.40]] We now decide on further points. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10537/18. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 3 against and 62 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10537. amended bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 126 votes in favour, 6 against and 59 abstentions. Next up is the T/10539 on excise duty. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10539/9 - T/10539/10 - T/10539/10 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 - T/10539/9 I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, the Group of the MSZP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 126 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and László Szakács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 125 against and 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10539/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 34 against and 32 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the bill submitted has been amended so that there is no provision for a qualified majority. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10539/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes to 37, with 29 abstentions. Next up is T/10534 amending Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/10534/12 and T/10534/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/10534/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 41 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the Rules of the House, the President of the National Assembly is T/10534/14. It shall send to the President of the Fiscal Council a single draft budget bill. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within three days of the adoption of Article 25 of the Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote will therefore take place on Monday, in line with our adopted agenda. Next up is T/10536 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10536/44. T/10536/45. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of § 13, 23 and 24 of the Group of the Group of the LMP, the Group of Jobbik proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 12, 19 and 21. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 29, András Schiffer and in Amendment 12, Bertalan Tóth and László Szakács put forward the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 33 is proposed by István Ikotity and Bernadett Szél. The adoption of this includes amendments 23 and 24. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 124 against and without abstention. Amendment 23 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 125 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 24 is also proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 125 against and two abstentions. Amendment 34 is proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 124 against and 25 abstentions. [[10.50]] Amendment 13 is proposed by Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 127 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 19 is proposed by Nándor Gúr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 124 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 21 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 123 against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10536/44. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 7 against and 58 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10536/49. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes to 41, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/10377 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/10377/1165, and T/10377/1166. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would remind you that in our previous session, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the leader of any political group should not be more than ten, the resolution House Rule 48. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the group leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. First, we decide on the reservation proposed by the MSZP Group. Amendment 467 tabled by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 482 tabled by Vice-President István Hiller and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 573 tabled by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 602 tabled by László Varga and Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 68 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 629 tabled by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 630 is also proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 631 is also proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 632 proposed by Gábor Harangozó István and Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 646 is proposed by László Szakács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 647 tabled by Sándor Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the LMP Group. Amendment 785 proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 789 tabled by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 124 against and 25 abstentions. Amendment 798 tabled by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 808 is also proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 1064 was proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 1066 proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. [[11.00]] Amendment No 1078, tabled by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 1090 was proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes to 124, with one abstention. Amendment 1099 was proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 125 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 1108 was proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 123 against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. Amendment No 350 tabled by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 125 against and four abstentions. Amendment 511 tabled by István Szávay and Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 120 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment No 1005 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and his fellow Member. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 123 against and 16 abstentions. Amendment No 357 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 122 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 527 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 125 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 650 is proposed by Vice-President Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I'm asking the Honourable Country If you are a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 against and 14 abstentions. Amendment 124 is proposed by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 121 against, with three abstentions. Amendment 633 tabled by Dóra Dúró and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[For signal:]] I apologize, 653. They're telling me I said 633. If that is the case, I would also like the protocol to be improved to 653, and I would ask my fellow Members once again. Please cancel the vote. Thank you very much. I will ask the question again for the sake of clarity. Amendment No 653 tabled by Dóra Dúró and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 127 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 1007 was proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 125 against and six abstentions. Amendment 456 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 124 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/10377/1165. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 35 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the Rules of the House, the President of the Parliament is T/10377/1167 submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send to the President of the Fiscal Council a single draft budget bill. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within 3 days of the adoption of the Act 25. § 3 opinion. In accordance with our adopted agenda for the final vote on Monday's holiday... [[Defiance.]] of its opinion within the meaning of paragraph 1. In accordance with our adopted agenda for the final vote on Monday's holiday... (Faintness.) - on our day of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure it's a holiday, so thank you very much for expressing your sympathy. The year XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Műlúk and Open Water Championships in Budapest. T/10535. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10535/6. T/10535/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With great respect, I welcome the president of the Olympic Committee in Box 4 and the Olympics with him, Olympic champions. Thank you for honoring our meeting with your presence. Thank you for your presence in the decision. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10535/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 10 against and 50 abstentions. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10535/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. Miklós Soltész: The Socialists hate sports.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 12 against and 51 abstentions. Next up is XXXIII. Summer Olympics and XVII. T/10726 on the tender and organizing of summer paralympic games Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already welcomed the President of the Olympic Committee and the Olympians present, Olympic champions, as part of the previous voting agenda item, and I think that this point is particularly interesting to them, so thank you once again for having honoured us with their presence. Dear House, T/10726/6, and T/10726/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10726/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 26 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10726/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 149 votes in favour, 24 against and 5 abstentions. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. I thank the president and delegation of the Olympic Committee for their presence. I will wish for results, excellent gold, silver, bronze medals and successful participation in the next Olympics, and we very much hope that, in accordance with this adopted bill, the Budapest Olympics will also take place. It follows that CXXX of 2000 establishing the nullity of convictions in connection with the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence. T/1105 amending Act T/1105 on the need to improve the functioning of the procedure for attesting nullity Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1105. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 185 votes in favour, not without a vote, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the first block of decisions. In accordance with our decision yesterday, we are now having a consolidated debate on the proposal under an exceptional procedure. Then a decision is expected to take place from 13.30 a.m. That's what I'd like you to pay attention to. So we've reached the end of this block of our decision. Thank you for your cooperation. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break in order to allow all my fellow Members who are now leaving the Chamber for their official and urgent task to do so to be able to do so without delay. [[Representatives are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Anyone who has to leave in an urgent task, please do this. A joint debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in connection with the integration of cooperative credit institutions follows in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/11014. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. Madam Secretary, is your card in there? [[Anna Hornung: Yes.]] Inside. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-06-07-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As you know, the cooperative integration system is of particular importance in the Hungarian banking system, which is why in 2013 a law was created that started the development of cooperative integration. [[11.20]] This was a process that started in 2013 to underpin the stability and sustainability of this important element of the financial system in the long term. This integration started in 2013 and the first phase of this close integration process has been completed in recent months. This gave the Hungarian government the opportunity to further enhance the stability and integration of the cooperative integration system and transparency. For this reason, the government has decided to submit another law to the Parliament, which would regulate the supervisory system of cooperative integration. The point of this new legislative amendment is to extend the supervisory rules on the banking system to cooperative integration, thus creating transparency and a basis for sound economic functioning. The key point of the amendments is to extend the supervisory powers of the central bank to cooperative integration. In practice, this means that, both for the integration organisation and for each cooperative credit institution, supervision can use its powers with a greater mandate. In addition, the supervision of the National Bank can now gain insight into the relationship between the integration organisation and each cooperative integration body. This creates the possibility for these financial institutions to operate on the basis of such transparent and competitive neutral rules in this sector as they do in the banking sector. The amendments will increase the role of the cooperative integration organisation in addition to the extension of supervision, thus enabling a more stable and efficient functioning of the integration organisation, both as a whole and for individual credit institutions. I think that this is a positive and forward-looking piece of legislation, which serves as an important engine for stable operation and economic growth, to promote lending, which is why I call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-24	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will now be presented within a total period of 15 minutes, in which the majority position of the Legislative Committee is available 8 minutes and 7 minutes for the minority. The majority opinion is presented by Mr László Salacz as rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-25	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/11014 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the integration of cooperative credit institutions in an exceptional procedure yesterday. a bill tabled by the Committee with 22 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the TAB's own motion, which only implements technical specifications. The opposition did not make any substantive criticism at the committee meeting, perhaps because they too saw that after socialist broker scandals and the persecution of people into foreign exchange loans, strong supervision was necessary in the financial sector. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting.]] Uniform and strong supervision of institutions increases customer confidence, enhances transparency and strengthens stability. Integration is a process in which close integration is completed. The further completion of integration, the strengthening of the community of cooperative credit institutions and the extension of supervision require a more stable and efficient functioning of integration, maintaining and strengthening public confidence. This will give cooperative credit institutions a new opportunity to operate in a stable, reliable way as banks in the countryside, to expand and to provide high-quality customer service. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-07-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I listened with interest to my fellow Member Salacz's report on the committee meeting, even because what he said was not mentioned at the committee meeting. Therefore, as a majority opinion, perhaps it should be described what it is, not his own opinion, or possibly someone who has no idea what was said at the committee meeting, because there was not a single broker scandal or any of his associates involved. Of course, there could have been talk about the fidesz broker scandal, the Quaestor case, when, for example, the Hungarian National Bank and the banking supervision did not properly carry out their tasks and on similar topics, but, my fellow Member Salacz, there was no such thing. What was and what was said was basically not the content of the law, but the law, if you will, was the level of development, codification. The opposition representatives who expressed a minority opinion opposed, first of all, that the law had been submitted by the referring minister to the level that the Legislative Committee, which Mr Salacz so elegantly said, had only had to improve a few of these technical clarifications, had to present a rather thick amendment proposal to the secretariat of the committee in order to be able to adopt this law at all. Only little things were not included, such as the provision of entry into force. I know this is a legal story, according to Congressman Salacz, but I think that it is okay for a law to have this in the bill. It's okay not to be full of spelling errors. It's okay not to be full of codification errors. Madam Secretary of State at the meeting said that this was an excellent result of several ministries. What I can say is that it is not good for the Ministry of National Economy to present a law at this level, but it is tragic if the Ministry of Justice has given its opinion on this proposal and let it go in this way. That is what we have said as the authors of the minority opinion, and that it would be very welcome if the secretariat of the Legislative Committee were not forced to fix virtually things that are almost irreparable. Although, as I may have said myself, the secretariat of the Legislative Committee has gained a great deal of practice in improving laws of this quality in recent years. Other than that, it wasn't said at the committee meeting. So we were talking about the quality of legislation, and I can say today, as one of the members of the committee representing the minority opinion, that I would also ask the Government in plenary to not submit legislative proposals of this quality. There's a minimum to be expected. When repairs are almost as large or as extensive as the bill itself, I think it can be called outrageous in a calm manner. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, since nothing else has been said at the committee meeting, other critical comments will be made by my fellow Member, László Szakács, as far as the professional comments are concerned. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-07-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Congressman Roland Mengyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you'll remember the failure of the Soltvadkert and County Savings Association and the scandals surrounding it. The 17 thousand clients of the cooperative were stuck in the bank as a result of bankruptcy, which had to be paid by the National Deposit Insurance Fund. [[11.30]] The case drew attention to the problems and challenges of the functioning of the savings cooperative system, which led to the start of a restructuring of the sector. During the last three years, as a result of serious work and on the basis of the guidelines of the law on cooperative credit institutions, the integration of savings cooperatives has been established, which we believe has achieved its objective. Allow me to support this and to use the Communications of the Integration Organization of Cooperative Credit Institutions to share a number with you. The savings cooperatives have 1 million 300 thousand clients, with 1,500 branches all over the country. More than half of the branches in Hungary are savings cooperatives. Last year, a network of 1118 branches has been established that provides investment services to customers in a uniform manner, and can also use administration of sovereign debt, securities, investment certificates, securities account openings for both the public and corporate and institutional clients. The savings cooperatives paid over 170 billion forints of loans last year to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which is very important. Due to the fragmented structure and fragmented functioning of the savings cooperative sector prior to integration, it has never been able to become a single, strong market factor, and it has become more organised and secure in recent years. The combined balance sheet total of the savings cooperative integration increased from HUF 1800 billion in 2014 to HUF 2400 billion, making it one of the largest and safest players in the domestic banking market. The result of the transformation was also that the sector was cleared of past abuses, past years' failures and irregular savings that were irresponsible in the money of customers. The guarantee community has been built, which is a key condition for the single market action and market expansion of cooperative credit institutions, so that savings customers can have double security of their deposits. Integration increased the number of 1 million 30,000 customers in 2014 by 26 percent in one year to a total of 1 million 300 thousand customers in 2015. And, as I mentioned, nearly half of all branches in Hungary are owned by cooperative credit institution integration. I would add that, while the banking market processes resulted in a reduction in the balance sheet of some of the banking sector's players in 2015, the balance sheet total of the savings cooperative sector increased. So the direction of integration, I think, was very justified, and the draft law before this House actually completes, rounds and makes this process more secure, builds and gives strong monitoring tools. Now allow me to put some thought to the bill. The proposal fully controls the savings cooperative scheme. According to the amendment, instead of the central bank of integration, the Bank of Savings, the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions will be the central, stronger player with new licenses. A new element is the adoption by the board of the Integration Organisation of mandatory rules on additional specific capital requirements in addition to legislation and other mandatory rules and the establishment of a single IT system. The proposal states that the integration organisation sets out the guidelines to ensure the safe functioning of the integration of cooperative credit institutions. Other rules also apply to entry and exit into integration under the draft. According to this, at the initiative of the board of directors of the so-called central bank, the board of the integration organisation shall decide on the recruitment or exclusion of the cooperative credit institution with the prior consent of supervision. The prior consent of supervision is a novelty, and this should be underlined. The role of the integration organisation in integration will also be strengthened by the right of direction for cooperative credit institutions and the central bank acting in its role in the integration of cooperative credit institutions, which they are obliged to comply with. In this case, of course, the central bank does not represent the Hungarian National Bank, but the central bank in the integration of the cooperative. The new legislation also states that the integration organisation is obliged to transmit it to the supervisor at the same time as sending it to the recipient of the instruction. If the central bank or the cooperative credit institution fails to comply with the instructions, the integration organisation shall decide to suspend the mandate of the cooperative credit institution or the head of the central bank for a maximum period of 180 days, which may be extended for a maximum period of 180 days. On the basis of the initiative of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank or on its own initiative, the Management Board of the Integration Organisation may decide in future to suspend the membership of the integration organisation of the cooperative credit institution or, where appropriate, to exclude the cooperative credit institution from the integration organisation. The possible crisis situation of the cooperative credit institution is also treated differently by the new regulation. Here, the central bank would have the power of initiative in the future, while the integration organisation will take the decision. The organisation shall decide whether to exclude cooperative credit institutions or, in the event of a crisis, after prior consent of supervision. It is also a change that, according to the proposal, not the Savings Bank or the central bank, but the integration organisation's prior consent is necessary for the appointment of senior officials of the cooperative credit institution. The legal requirement that the central bank be excluded from integration is also a major transformation, the role of which is currently played by the Savings Bank in integration. A Regulation on the withdrawal, exclusion and selection of a new bank by the Central Bank is proposed by the Minister of National Economy. In the new system, the central bank will have a greater role than supervision. The supervision may require the central bank to carry out a comprehensive audit if the member does not comply with the legislation. If the investigation finds that there is a breach, the supervision may order or impose a fine or revoke the authorisation of the directors or members of the central bank's board or supervisory board. It represents a change from the current system to the integration organisation taking procurement decisions on the integrated IT system, while this was previously the responsibility of the current central bank. As regards liability, the proposal states that the integration organisation, the central bank and the cooperative credit institution are jointly and severally liable for each other's obligations, irrespective of the date of their establishment. As regards the compensation, the proposal states that the integration organisation must reimburse Takarékbank Zrt. by the National Deposit Insurance Fund for the amount of the assets received from the ceased institutional protection funds. the amount spent on the compensation of cooperative credit institution depositors excluded prior to issuance by the cooperative credit institution. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the scandals and abuses of three years ago in the savings cooperative system have proven that there is a need for strong integration and a strong supervision in this area. If you agree - and as the Legislative Committee has said in its minority opinion, their criticism of the content has not been raised, it is purely formal, so I think you agree - with the completion of the process, with the development of complex regulation and a more robust and secure supervisory system, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2016-06-07-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is something else behind this, not what you think, not the former savings union scandals - it is simply that János Lázár and Zoltán Spéder lost another match. It's a government rigging. It is clear that, in spite of the government statute that the regulation of this area belongs to the Prime Minister's Office, if they do not want János Lázár and Zoltán Spéder to be in position, they will twist it out of their hands and the Ministry of National Economy will present what someone has written, because I am sure that the Ministry of National Economy will not make as many mistakes as it did in a written text. Let's just say that "together" is not two, and I could say more of these spelling errors that made this proposal crawl. What caused them to lose in this fight was - and this is not the first round - that they wanted to put the Posta and the savings cooperatives together, and it would not have been as it was in many places in the world, that money could be taken in the post office, that money could have been given up in the post office, but that it would have been possible to mail a letter in the savings cooperatives. And by doing so, the Posta, which is not necessarily performing well at the moment, which you can say a thousand times that it stands in its place under market conditions, is not so - we see that, with the development of electronics, paper mail and absolute classic postal services fall back normally - so they tried not to save the Posta, not to save the state company, but to put it together with the Savings Bank marked by the name of Zoltán Spéder, and again, not to give up money in the post, but to post a letter at the points of the savings cooperative. Then, when we asked here whether there was anything else that could have been achieved, such as this procurement procedure, and the Posta would have concluded such a service contract for postal services, it turned out that there was no such public procurement procedure, and then it was off the House's agenda. This is one of the precedents of this proposal, it was the first match, which I believe the Lazarus Spéder pair lost in the first half. The second is where we are now in general, where you say that the Savings Bank and the central bank, as you say, my honourable fellow Member, are, I think, in the first variation of this draft legislation, even the Takarékbank Zrt. was listed and converted by the company with the name "central bank" written with all lower letters, which may later be Takarékbank Zrt. I will, but I'm not sure that's gonna happen. At the time when Sándor Demján, President of the Banking Association, Mihály Patai, turned with an open letter to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and this integration of the savings cooperative, where the combination of the Savings Bank, Posta, FHB and all such services was suspected, and the re-enactment of the Spéder Zoltán was behind him, such legislation was prepared, in our view - to give an example, using the rules of the exceptional procedure in a way that was specifically abused - this legislation was made. But what was in these letters, which was so persuasive that there was legislation for that? My fellow Member said that the financial data on savings integration is excellent. Compared to this, the president of the National Savings Association actually wrote that before integration this showed a surplus of 10 billion, after integration a 2 billion minus was shown in this balance sheet. I don't think that's the result you should be so proud of, it's a toaster. We will also see that the FHB bank, which is also part of Zoltán Spéder's interests, has been reduced by HUF 30 billion according to the capital adequacy ratio in recent years, resulting in such a lack of capital in FHB. Sándor Demján writes in his letter that FHB would not have been able to obtain this 30 billion forints from the market, but, abusing what was given to him in the integration of the savings cooperative - and I would say it wasn't given to anyone but to him - he abused it, forcing the savings cooperatives to register shares at about seven times the price, and in addition, it can be seen in the letter, Sándor Demján, that they built a network of companies where, quoting him, they were able to withdraw profits from it as a parasite. So other companies make a very good living by keeping savings in savings cooperatives, other companies making a very good living out of it, and other people making a very good living by integrating savings cooperatives and removing autonomy from savings cooperatives, the independent decision you call fragmented and irresponsiblely farming savings cooperatives. In fact, this autonomy was taken from them, and through a network of companies, as Sándor Demján writes in his letter to the Prime Minister, the profits of this, and it can be seen that FHB's losses are also to be financed by the savings cooperatives. After all, what you can see in this is that the government's ambition is not what you're saying, and that doesn't make it public confidence. Why would it be public confidence that a man tried something and failed? Why would it be public confidence that a person is building a corporate empire, trying to subdue FHB, Posta, savings cooperatives, through a network of companies, trying to pump out all of its assets, money, whatever it is that doesn't work transparently, but more transparently? This is what the trade unions, my honourable fellow Member, write down by the President of the Banking Association and the President of the Association of Savings, to which Viktor Orbán did not say that this is not the case, not that the Prime Minister said that this is not the case, I am trying to quote precisely, he said that the government considers the restructuring of the savings cooperative system successful and closed, and that we can finally get rid of the dubious transactions with this law. It doesn't say that it doesn't, it says that there are questionable transactions in this, which is why Takarékbank Zrt. is out. from the bill, and that's why the central bank is included in this proposal with all small letters. This is very similar to the Széchenyi Bank case, by the way, very, very similar. There, the bank of Töröcskei was recapitalized by Fidesz with good favorable rules, with good orders, and the state got involved, and then, when they saw that it didn't work, they backed out of it, with a loud scandal, with a loud scandal, and I don't think the government can afford one more. This can only be seen from the fact that exactly what I said, the merger, the scandal of Posta, FHB, savings unions, the Savings Bank, was discussed quite strongly by the free newspaper Lokal, which was operated by Árpád Habony, and, let's just say, he hit Zoltán Spéder properly. You've recognized this. It is not at all that the legislator is here because of the Soltvadkert and the Region and the OBA payments, and because of the problems raising awareness, he would have caught it now and slammed his forehead, and he thought that we needed a different set of rules. No, we couldn't make the axis with János Lázár in it, there's Zoltán Spéder, there's Post, there's FHB and there's savings unions, and they're trying to do it like this. As my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, said, in a slightly slutty way, first of all, is not the rapporteur who should be under the statute. According to the Statute, this should be brought before us by the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár, instead by the Ministry of National Economy. It is your job to know which ministry and which minister is underage, who in this case is under guardianship, who cannot do what is his job, and who else is left to do so, but let's face it, the statute does not say so. [[11.50]] As my colleague Gergely Bárándy also pointed out, this is certainly the quality of legislation. There was no provision for entry into force at the time of the submission of this bill. This is an unacceptable mistake, because it is an integral element of codification, of legislation, but this text of the proposed norm does not reveal how and when it will be published, how and when it will be in force. Of course, you can do everything, you can hurry up later, and you can correct spelling errors, but I think you can certainly not afford this quality either in the ministry or in Parliament, just to protect your own authority. I've also talked about spelling errors. There's no way someone won't read it once. That's why I think this isn't from NGM. You are the author, Madam Secretary of State, you are bringing him out, but I am sure you would not allow your apparatus to bring us such a quality of work, which lacks a very important element of the law. You know very well that it is not included in their Statute, and this kind of supervision and area is included in another Statute. Not least: when submitted, they did not know how and which minister should produce an implementing regulation. Now I finally know from the keynote speech that this will be the NGM. I believe that all the examples and all the backgrounds that I have said to him do not allow the Socialist faction to support this bill, since it is used abusively to derogate from house rules. In fact, they are not trying to solve people's problems, but it is simply that they have failed to set up an axis containing Posta, FHB and Savings Bank. You couldn't get this axle up, you twisted it out of the hands of a minister, and now you're trying to put two to three guarantees that you think this, the world of savings unions, is going to be a safe place now. Returning to the fact that my fellow Member Salacz was actually holding a press conference instead of giving the majority opinion, I would add that there are not socialist but fidesz broker scandals. I've met a lot of victims. Well, God save us all from being protected by György Matolcsy as the state's oversight of MNB and financial organizations, who took the money right in front of him. It's not a great guarantee, let's face it, in today's world. I think there are a lot of people who would rather run the other way than be protected by György Matolcsy. There's got to be more serious guarantees than that. In conclusion, it is necessary to remind the Ministry that the Secretariat of the TAB is neither the Ministry of Justice nor the codification department of the NGM. This quality must be taken into account, so that it cannot come before the House, because it will be difficult to protect its own authority and our own authority. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2016-06-07-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome the teachers and students of Mátyás Hunyadi Primary School in Eger, located in the gallery. I wish you all an effective trip to Budapest and experiences. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-06-07-33	Mr President, Dear House, I am very sorry for those schoolchildren who have to listen to such a level of debate, and this is how they learn about the functioning of Parliament. Regardless of the number of people, which is also an interesting thing, but we can see that, in fact, laws can be ordered from this government, manual controls can be used to import codification garbage that is actually unappreciable. We also see that, unfortunately, you are putting the Secretary of State in an awkward position, those who must bring her here and protect the unprotected. In short, I would like to call on you to withdraw this codification trash immediately, along with all its shortcomings. I mean, there's basically nothing to argue about. The Jobbik faction has two choices ahead of it. One is that he does not participate in a vote on this dog comedy, and the other is that with one abstention he expresses that he does not want to stage a Fidesz gang war and does not want to be included in the props of this. We can see that what we have before us is not about extending the financial or other supervisory rights of the MNB. By the way, we already know the collapse of consumer protection and we know the catastrophic situations in which we cannot talk about financial consumer protection in Hungary in the classical sense. Exactly the Quaestor scandal is the most warning. If 20 of my fellow Member Mr Volner's amendments had been accepted at the beginning of the previous term, there would have been no Quaestor scandal, this could have been prevented. At the same time, the Fidesz-KDNP majority in the then committee simply rejected the possibility of tidying up and tidying up. That is why we can say that the system that you are talking about can be polished here, but the background processes are clear. The Banking Association has written to you that the integration of the savings cooperatives is not working properly, and after the Bank Association has sent a letter to order this quotation sign, this sudden bill has come before us. In this together, it is actually included with two Gy, spelling errors, codification errors, and something that is teeming with it. I am sure that NGM did not put this on the table, as the professionals working there are able to do quality work, and they would not give out such quality of work in my opinion. This raises the unfortunate suspicion, and let's stick to the suspicion that legislation can be ordered in this way, and then someone will make them, and then someone here is trying to protect the unprotected. But we simply can't and don't want to assist. What we're seeing is that your relationship with the Banking League is much closer than it should be. Last year, a pact was concluded with the Banking Association, where you essentially agreed on and at the expense of foreign exchange credit victims, agreed with the Banking Association that no additional burden would be placed on the financial institutions concerned, even to facilitate the situation of credit victims. This pact has been concluded, I understand, since then it has not been broken. Now, the Bank Alliance is writing a letter, and there is such a quality of incompetence here - once again, an absolutely unsuitable bill, and we see that although there may be a kind of war between the Prime Minister's Office and NGM, it would be clearly a gentleman's request and a requirement that Parliament as a whole should not be regarded as a prop during your gang war. So we won't be your props, we don't want to build a stage. They're fighting their gang wars within their own chariot camps! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-07-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The first independent Member may now speak. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak. [[Szabolcs Szabó and László Varju call no.]] They don't want to say anything. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches for one Member per faction and for the first independent Member to speak on time. In doing so, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-35	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my two-minute speech, I would like to respond to the voice of the MSZP Group, who has spoken here in this House about the conspiracy theory of the proposal. I have to say, you're wrong about that, although you have quite a colorful imagination. The amendment before us concerns the integration of cooperative credit institutions, which is a very important process and which is part of the current regulation. The main goal is obviously transparency, to have a greater mandate for supervision with scrutiny. Obviously this is important, but I believe that it was not important at your time, because that is when most Hungarians were trapped in the currency-credit trap. Therefore, transparency, which is important, is that it is competitively neutral and that we can promote lending as dynamic as possible. I think this is what this amendment serves in the first place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-07-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible for representatives to take part in speeches on the time frame published on the billboard. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to respond. It's not a conspiracy, unfortunately. My fellow Member, this is not a conspiracy theory, we must be involved in Parliament's debates, and then one can see exactly what proposals are coming here. It can be read precisely either in the press or in the open letters, which attack these designs, is not powerless, and otherwise in economic life, people who are fundamentally corrupt, so they provide appearances who, I must say, are at times more credible than this government. [[12.00]] Bringing foreign currency loans here, citing them here only so that we can do a good thing for the past eight years, I think that on the one hand it is unworthy, at least as much as the wording of this law, and on the other hand, if we do not follow the proposals, and if we do not follow the line of those proposals, then we really cannot draw conclusions from Soltvadkert, and how we come from Soltvadkert to achieve the huge integration of the savings cooperatives. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Look, the Savings Bank, the FHB, they own each other. There's 25.3% of FHB in the Savings Bank. They wanted to sign a contract with the Post Office. We had this proposal before us. When we asked him if there was anything else he could have been so lucky to sign such a contract with the Posta for postal services, at the committee meeting, your Secretary of State, Lászlón Németh, whose hand this proposal was now twisted, and it was the NGM that presented it, he said that no, there was no public procurement procedure. It's not a conspiracy theory, it's putting facts together. This may be something else, of course, you have to wrap this up in communication, that's what we've heard, of course, that's what we've heard, but everyone can see that's not what's behind it. That's what they use Parliament for, a screen like that in this story. We also welcome the fact that the role of the Hungarian National Bank as a body for the public oversight of financial institutions will increase when savings cooperatives need to be controlled. This is probably what the Prime Minister thought when he replied in a letter to the President of the National Association of Savings Cooperatives that he wanted to fix in law. I think even the Prime Minister thought that one of the ministries would write this bill. No, the Ministry is just presenting this proposal. It's not a conspiracy theory, it's a reasonable conclusion from the facts, which you can't deny even if you're over eight years old, you're lending currency, and I don't know what you're doing, which, by the way, you've received in today's communication pamphlet. It's not that. The point is that it is worth drawing conclusions from the facts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Roland of Heaven for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-06-07-39	Thank you for the floor. It is really just a quick response or clarification of opposition parties, to clarify what has been said. So with all due respect to the credit institutions and employees of the rural cooperative and the work they do there in connection with the lending and deposit of residents. That's why I didn't say what you remembered. I said that because of fragmentation, it could not become a market factor the way it could or could, in the competitive position of the banking sector, now that it was integrated. On the other hand, I also said that it was the result of the new integration transformation in 2013, that it was able to clean up irresponsiblely farming savings cooperatives, and you cannot question that either, because that is how the two relate. So it wasn't what you said. On the other hand, it is also for clarification. The central bank led by György Matolcsy did not cause it, but just noticed the Quaestor scandal and took action, so it has problems with the timelines of both opposition parties; and it didn't push the Fidesz government into the problem, but was trying to rescue them and save them with results. Obviously, political debate, as you say, protects the indefensible, that we had to take these steps instead of you, and we have succeeded, but this is not what today's proposal is about. This is about the fact that there has been a successful, numerically supported, effective, market-based integration model, which needs to be closed and closed so that it is safer and that there is an even bigger and even stronger supervisory system that will take care of it. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP.
u2016-06-07-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to participate in the debate because I would like to remind my honourable fellow Members that this whole story is a shameful story. It's nothing more than a breach of a financial network. I would just like to remind my fellow Members in this process when, through the Posta and a state bank, Fidesz virtually played the savings cooperative system into a certain circle. The only example best illustrates this process when the members of the savings cooperatives sat down to vote on the new rules of organisation and operation laid down in the Act, they could not vote against it, but only had a yes vote in that case. What kind of blackmail was this against those who practically owned, operated and maintained this whole system? Ladies and gentlemen, Bringing the foreign exchange credit case into this debate is a hoax. That's not what we're talking about. It must be said that you have taken this whole sector in a devious manner, and now you are trying to do a little bit of engineering here in a way that is practically in the hands of a bill and with the shortcomings already mentioned by my fellow Members. But that's not gonna work, not anymore. In addition, the PSZEF integrated into the Hungarian National Bank would have had a duty and duty to control and prevent. The question arises as to why he did not do so when there were problems with certain savings cooperatives, why he did not act, and why anyone should protect a functioning financial network when it was a member's job. Members must cry that if this network does not work, the members must work and the management must work to make it more operational. Because if I follow your logic well, honourable Members, there on the government, then it can be pointed out that it works badly, even for private property, as it has now been pointed out, for example, in foundation schools, and then say that I want to take over the state because I think it doesn't work well. There is no market economy in this kind of logic. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a shameful story. So I'm really asking you not to at least try to protect this situation. At least try, how should I say, to relate with taste to this theft that has happened in the case of savings cooperatives, and to say that they have now presented this bill, which has been vomited with a lot of spelling errors. Don't be ridiculous, fellow Members. So, I just want to say that in this debate, you should take note of this situation, not protect those who have benefited from this process, and not try to defend what is, in fact, indefensible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács for two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-06-07-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Looks like we're gonna have a good debate about this today. I'm telling my colleague from Mengyi. The Hungarian National Bank, which also oversees financial institutions, is not responsible for reconnaissance. Unbelievable as it may be, there's the police and the prosecutor's office in terms of financial abuse. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank must carry out continuous supervision and prevent acts that may have occurred in Soltvadkert, and have happened in Quaestor, and perhaps in Karcagon, Kalocsa, I do not want to say anything stupid. You've got to beat him to it. It is completely different to reconnaissance, it is the detective and the prosecution that has jurisdiction, competence, and not least the exclusive power of the state, since these organisations must represent the exclusive power of violence and nothing else. He's got to get ahead of him. What I'm trying to say. Whatever happened, it doesn't matter that I'm talking about the Quaestor, it doesn't matter that I'm talking about the savings unions, whatever I'm talking about, because they have to do a gatekeeper role every day, they have to watch every day, whatever happened, it happened right in front of their noses. They took the 200 billion of Quaestor from under their noses, took the Soltvadkert Savings Association's money and damaged people. [[12.10]] But that's not what this story is about, believe me. My better fellow Member said gang war, I used to call it a catfight. Lazarus lost again. They softened up his driver's licenses, softened up the axle he might be interested in, and Spéder's not doing as well as he used to, but there's a law on it now. That's it. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-44	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Congressman Zsolt Legény will have the floor, MSZP.
u2016-06-07-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Just in order to record it in the almanach, let's talk a few sentences about what really happened here. The Prime Minister has a fever dream - not one, more - and unfortunately this fever dream becomes a nightmare for Hungarian society even when, for example, we see now that the Fidesz wants to raise a new oligarch layer; a new one, they call it a national capital class. One element of this is when savings cooperatives are stolen. My fellow Member Tukacs has already talked about it, so I wouldn't repeat it, but the point was that the savings cooperatives are rearranging their ownership backgrounds, re-playing the savings cooperatives to Fidesz buddies, and otherwise capitalizing them, just like they did at Széchenyi Bank. It's just unparalleled. Unfortunately, we think it is not unprecedented, because we have seen this fidesz method several times, how it is solved, but we must definitely reject it. This whole thing is a dog comedy, by the way. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak within the given time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung.
u2016-06-07-47	Mr. President. I thought about it at the end because a number of arguments were made, but they were grouped around a theme, and I think that it is worth clarifying in the end. I would like to mention a few technical amendments first. I felt a little confused here about how such an integration organization works. As a result of this amendment, the role of the integration organisation will be strengthened and the role of its members and the central bank will be reduced, so this is a relative ratio. A central bank must be established, which has been, and will continue to be, because savings cooperatives have to implement both the operation and the technical background, so this integration must work somehow. This is the role of the central bank. These amendments serve this purpose. A number of arguments have been put forward here as well. I couldn't find what gave me the real background. [[Dr. László Kács' continuous interventions.]] The aim of this amendment is to strengthen the role of supervision, thus increasing stability, competitiveness and transparency, as highlighted and confirmed by many Members. Surveillance and stability in the financial sector, competitiveness and the establishment of economic growth are the tasks of the Ministry of National Economy, which is why the government has decided to submit this proposal in NGM colours. This proposal is being made now, because these goals, which have been listed above, are goals for which it is not worth waiting for a summer. The sooner we create these in the savings cooperative sector, the more important they are. That is why the proposal was made; that is why the Government asked for this to be discussed within the framework of an exceptional procedure. Extension of supervision. Here, too, there are some arguments about whose interest this is in. The stability of a banking system or a financial system, whether it is in the interests of the bank or of the savings cooperative, is in the interests of everyone, of the people, of the depositors and of the creditors. I think these are general goals that no one can argue with. That is all I would like to say about the integration of the savings cooperative. Another opinion was delivered on the relationship with the Banking Association and the banking system. I would like to make it clear that an agreement has been reached, but it is not born with the Banking Alliance, but with the International Development Bank, in order to establish lending; in order to transfer additional resources to the country. This is also for economic growth and stability, so agreements are made to this end. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2016-06-07-48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place from 13.30 a.m. I'll take a break. [[Pause: 12.15 13.31President: Lezsák SándorPersons: Nándor Gúr and József Attila Móring]]
u2016-06-07-49	Dear Parliament, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check their cards to see if they are in place. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. It follows that T/11014 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the integration of cooperative credit institutions will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/11014/2. T/11014/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/11014/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 17 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11014. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 119 votes in favour, 22 against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work in debates, I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats. A consolidated discussion of the report on the conditions for the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the criteria and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person, together with a proposal for a decision adopting it, will follow. Proposals submitted by the Committee of European Affairs B/10929. and H/10931. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to the House Rules adopted, you have 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the Government representative's statement, 15 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 15-15 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 7 minutes for the speech of the independent Members, and 10 minutes for the closing speech. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-06-07-50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Subsidiarity assessment is a special parliamentary procedure under Protocol 2 to the Lisbon Treaty, which aims to prevent national Parliaments from acting jointly from exceeding the delegated powers of the EU institutions. This is the fourth time the Parliament has conducted such a procedure, which can always be carried out at the initiative of the Committee on European Affairs. At its meeting on 30 May, the Committee decided unanimously on B/10929. on the submission of a report and a related proposal for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of today's investigation is therefore one of the elements of the asylum package put forward by the European Commission on 4 May 2016, namely Dublin III. Recast of the regulation. Of course, when we talk about the Dublin Regulation, we must think of EU rules on the definition of the Member State responsible for examining the application for international protection. [[13.40]] Dublin III. The recast of the regulation, we know, is long overdue in the European Union, but the timing of the Commission's proposal has been somewhat unexpected. On the basis of the asylum communication issued at the beginning of April 2016, it appeared that the Commission was preparing a thorough consultation on such a sensitive and important issue, asking all Member States in advance. That's not how it happened. Instead, he has acted rashly and did not want to have a prior dialogue with the Member States or with the parliaments of the Member States with regard to the review. The Hungarian proverb has proved in this case: work is rarely good. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me refresh your memory and briefly review the history of the Dublin review, i.e. the EU's actions over the last nine months on refugee crisis. First of all, on 22 September 2015, the European Council, the Council of the European Union, adopted a decision by a qualified majority, remembering the temporary placement of 120 thousand refugees in Italy and Greece. This is well known for its vote against the quota decision not only Hungary, but also the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Finland. Therefore, the compulsory quota was the first decision that was completely unacceptable to some Member States. Secondly, in the context of this Decision, representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction presented in November 2015 a bill on action against compulsory resettlement quotas for Hungary and Europe. All this has been done in order for the Government to bring an action before the European Court of Justice, on the one hand because we believe that the quota decision, contrary to the conclusions of the European Council, has ordered the relocation of refugees to be compulsory and not on a voluntary basis. That is, ministers by a qualified majority have bypassed and opposed the unanimous position of the European Council, i.e. the prime ministers. On the other hand, as a national parliament, we had absolutely no opportunity to examine the draft Council decision. One word as a hundred, so the Council's decision had to be called into question by means of law. Thirdly, Hungary filed an action against the Council in December 2015, together with Slovakia, requesting the annulment of the Council decision by the European Court of Justice. In the meantime, Poland has supported us as an intervention. But with this story, honourable Members, it is not over. In the meantime, in September 2015, the European Commission presented another proposal to address the refugee crisis. This is also Dublin III. The regulation was a very narrow amendment, but, in my opinion, very dangerous, namely the introduction of the so-called relocation crisis mechanism. In fact, that September proposal can also be seen as the forerunner or model of the proposal that we are discussing today, since a completely new legal institution, namely the relocation crisis mechanism, could be used to relocate refugees according to the population of the Member States, the quota calculated on the basis of GDP. The procedure, as we read, would be completely automatic, would not have any upper limits, and all enforcement issues would fall within the competence of the Commission. Finally, in the context of the crisis relocation mechanism, the Parliament held a similar procedure in October last year in 55/2016. By its decision No 16, the European Parliament and the Council raised objections and adopted a reasoned opinion. This also includes the fact that this crisis mechanism seems to me to be stalling in the Council for the time being, no progress, no plan, no continuation - for now. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the above precedents, it is therefore right to say that we have been waiting for a correction of the Dublin rules. But according to the good Hungarian proverb, this is not the horse we wanted. From the point of view of today's debate, we should talk about two issues that have the highest impact on the electorate, one with the quota and the other with the fine. The European Commission is not giving up, because it wants to push us back to the idea of not meeting with real social will. I could also say that Dublin III. The revision of the regulation in May is the idea of last year in a new robe. But the point doesn't change. It is also difficult to say the new European jargon to be introduced by the draft regulation in May, but I think it is worth noting: correctional allocation mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, In the knowledge of the history, I recall an ancient saying: "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes" - that is, I am afraid of the Greeks, even if they bring gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, The idea is that if a Member State were faced with a disproportionate number of asylum applications, i.e. the number of applications would exceed the Member State reference number by 150 per cent, including those who have actually resettled third-country nationals, an automated system would be put in place. This is the correctional allocation mechanism. On this basis, applicants would be allocated to a Member State where the number of applications is below the reference number. Well, just for the record, ladies and gentlemen, this IT miracle in the Union is called eu-LISA. If, for any reason, a Member State does not wish to participate in the mechanism, there is, of course, a possibility of opt-out. But at what cost, fellow Members? Missing out comes at a heavy cost. Financial solidarity on the basis of the equity mechanism, as the Union calls it, should be paid to another Member State undertaking the relocation of the person concerned. Of course, the opt-out is not forever, for up to a year. And what would it cost, fellow Members? Write and say, just 250 thousand euros per person. That's solidarity, isn't it? Is this fairness, fellow Members? So we should pay some 79 million forints per person. It's outrageous! Ladies and gentlemen, Our current examination is therefore limited to the principle of subsidiarity, and in this context we must first of all look at whether the draft regulation referred to by the European Commission, presented on 4 May, was justified and whether or not EU action has created real added value. So the subject of this draft regulation is asylum, which is a matter of shared competence between the Union and the Member States on the basis of our basic agreement. [[13.50]] That is to say, the Union's action is limited by the principles of necessity and proportionality and must be supported by the chosen legal basis. The choice of legal basis is one of the keywords, which is Article 78 (paragraph 2 (e) of the Treaty, which gives the possibility only to determine the Member State responsible for examining applications, i.e. not at all for automation, fines, acceptance of applications without ceilings. It is also clear from this, ladies and gentlemen, that the Commission is expanding beyond the legal basis chosen. Ladies and gentlemen, So the report that you have obviously read explains our concerns about this in detail, but I would like to reiterate once again in plenary the reasons for which the draft regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity. 1. The correction allocation mechanism to be introduced by Articles 34 to 36 of the draft regulation envisages a fully automated IT-controlled procedure, which does not have the Member State's right to have any say in shaping it.2. The financial solidarity provided for in Article 37 of the draft regulation does not recognise any fairness, flexibility or objective justification, and its extent is clearly contrary to the principle of proportionality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to underline once again that the draft regulation is going beyond the chosen legal basis, under the mandate given in Article 78 (2) (e) of the Treaty, because it does not provide a legal basis for introducing so-called financial solidarity or for creating an automated, topless distribution mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, The Brussels fast train therefore ran out quickly, but in my opinion it could be stuck and jammed just as quickly, because since September last year, the European Commission has been living in the same wrong coordinate system, the common element of which is the mandatory quota. It is not enough that many Member States have voted against or even turned to the European Court of Justice, but even those Member States that voted in favour of the Council simply do not make transfers back home. This is how only half a thousand people have been relocated from 160,000 in total, so it can be seen how far Brussels has moved away from European reality. With our current procedure, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can help Brussels to wake up and finally favour the principle of volunteering for the relocation of refugees, and that our joint efforts by the Member States should aim at protecting our external borders and dampening conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa. In my opinion, this could be a justified and necessary element of joint European action. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support Mr H/10931. A proposal for a decision was adopted as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-51	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-07-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the National Assembly that, on the basis of a derogation from the house rules, the Legislative Committee held yesterday a debate on the proposal for a decision adopting a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the conditions and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or stateless person, which was supported by 28 votes in favour of 1 gender. The Legislative Committee held a long debate on the management of economic immigrants in Hungary, in particular, by basically agreeing with the proposal before us, with the exception of one Member. Even the MSZP, which previously described the migration crisis as a false problem, said that the EU bodies' proposal for a compulsory resettlement quota was a crazy idea. Perhaps they are slowly beginning to realize that the Prime Minister, the Hungarian government, was right when he spoke about unlimited supply of economic immigrants to Europe. By adopting the proposal for a decision, the Parliament notes that the draft EU regulation concerned violates the principle of subsidiarity. The so-called correctional allocation mechanism, commonly known as the compulsory resettlement quota, envisages a fully automated IT-controlled procedure, which the Member States do not have the possibility to shape, and they want to force economic immigrants to the nation states on an ongoing basis. The financial solidarity provided for in Article 37 of the proposal, which is, in fact, a penalty, does not recognise any fairness, flexibility or objective justification, and is clearly contrary to the principle of proportionality. The performance would be carried out on the basis of a Commission Implementing Decision to be adopted at a later stage. I believe that, on the basis of these two basic arguments, it is easy to see that the EU's bodies are in breach of the Lisbon Treaty if they are to impose compulsory compulsory resettlement of Member States. This Member of Parliament, who recognises Hungarian interests, cannot allow this, so please support the proposal for a resolution that has been tabled, which gives us the opportunity to take action against these ideas. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-53	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 15-15 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 7 minutes. First, the Members who have made themselves known in writing will take the floor. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai from the Fidesz Group, the lead speaker of Fidesz. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2016-06-07-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dublin III. on the amendment of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the recast of the regulation of the Parliament Committee on European Affairs B/10929. H/10931. I would like to comment on its proposal for a decision. Today's debate is also about examining subsidiarity. This is a proposal whose content has been unknown to us until the last year. We have learned about the immigration, migration, fighting conquests of peoples, but we have never experienced the fact that the masses of unarmed people require care, livelihood, care, job opportunities and all kinds of support by a broad and erroneous interpretation of human rights. We can ask what kind of state or community is it whose internal order is being transformed by aliens. What kind of State and what kind of community is defenceless, therefore compromises, and conceals this by serving all claims without protection. [[14.00]] In addition, he wants to divide the burden on European peoples rather than resist the demands. Moreover, the Union's proposed regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity and would impose fines in addition to the level of financial solidarity without taking into account the basic requirement of proportionality. In order to protect our healthy instincts for life, it must be noted that the era of free migration of peoples in Europe has expired. The Danish, Swedish, or even Portuguese, Spanish people can remain if they can preserve their language and customs, their kind places for their offspring in the inherited state. For similar reasons, at the beginning of today's migration, we ask whether the residents and their descendants will sing Hungarian folk songs, whether the heroicness of the Eger castle defenders, the language of János Arany or the Hungarian wilderness will mean something to them. There are other spiritual reasons for caution. Hungary is a sacred place for us. When aliens approach our sacred places, we ask whether those who wish to settle will respect them, whether they want to live according to our historical monuments, monuments, churches, customs, or other customs. Many say that this is selfish speech, but this is nothing more than the concern for the nation, the experience of the unbroken struggle that our ancestors conducted for the survival of the Hungarian people. Some people don't care about that, because they already have their country where they pay, and so they qualify us from this approach. We Christian Conservatives feel it is inevitable to be responsible for the survival of the Hungarian nation, which comes from respecting the efforts of the past to preserve the nation and having a responsibility to preserve the Hungarian nation as a community. This responsibility is also recorded in the National Creed, incorporated into the Fundamental Law. Together, the economic downturn, climate change, the population crisis, the lack of self-defense and the war caused by pointless exports of democracy are launching a recent wave of migration towards Europe. It also contributed to the fact that the obvious prosperity and abundance, as well as the worldwide advertisement for consumption, which, of course, has reached everyone and has been observed for everyone, have attracted the attention of the people living in distress, so they are now coming to Europe from areas where there are no conflicts of war. They come in mass from Pakistan, Bangladesh, or otherwise peaceful countries of Africa. They also ask for a part in prosperity, even though they are unfamiliar with the order of European culture, customs, lifestyle and cohabitation. They are moving mass towards an inclusive European better life and livelihood. For them, the compulsory allocation quota without barriers, a permanent distribution key in the EU language, is only encouraging. It is still an open question as to where the inclusion limit will be in the resettlement of migrants from overpopulated areas in Asia and Africa in Europe. Today, it seems that many of Europe's countries now have an overwhelming mass of immigrants, especially when it becomes apparent that most of them do not want to identify with their working perceptions, customs, culture and acquired ideas of freedom, such as the equality of women. Europe, organised by the ideas of the rule of law, is confronted with the organisation of a society with more raw physical power. Europe has surrendered to this unknown force, which has now been forgotten, and has proved to be a compromise. In Paris, Brussels, Berlin, there are districts where the state has basically lost administrative control over certain parts of the city, because there are peoples of different customs who manage their lives according to their values. It seems that residents want only the result of the Christian culture in Europe: cooperation and mutual respect have created a standard of living. However, the underlying faith, world image, and moral and worldly custom are rejected. There is also a risk of mass resettlement, because the population is increasing its rejection of the European way of life and the protection of the custom of living in other circumstances is strengthened. This is called parallel societies. The European position is that everyone should take their refugee quotas and support them, under the guidance of the countries that support immigration and are most affected by refugees. The Hungarian position on rejecting forced resettlement quotas has repeatedly fallen under European fire, in which, unfortunately, there is no trace of frank speech. Again comes the average democracy debate, a reference to European values and solidarity. Hungarians live in a strong community in their country, a linguistic, cultural and national identity, which is difficult to relax. The instrument of weakening is the stigmatisation of the nationalist self-defense forces, the seduction of the best of the community abroad, the continuous advertising of emigration, but this includes the contempt of the customs, nature and attachment of the population, and the disregard of its culture. Hungarian society has resisted to varying degrees, but so far effectively, to reduce its identity. Anyone who visits us knows that he has come to the land of the Hungarian people, he sees that the inhabitants of the country live in peace with their nationalities. You can experience that the country is working, building up, its inhabitants uniting together to maintain the conditions of living on this land. Hungary is fulfilling its international obligation to refugees, as it proved during the South Slavic crisis. But one thing is not allowed: to change the custom of Hungarian life and to create an elusive world-human and world-popular character. It's one of the origins of the attacks. Those who come to Hungary, if they want to live with us, must help to continue European values and culture, to preserve the Hungarian heritage, to preserve the Hungarian language and to protect our customs. This can also be considered and seen as a national position, but we have been empowered by the past and by our present citizens, not by self-sacrifice. So the simple question is: does the Hungarian people have the right to remain as Hungarians in their homeland, to be aware of the responsibility of survival today, and to want it strongly. I'm sure you do. For those who leave the country, I note with fear that they should also look after their country abroad, so that if troubled times come later, they may have a place to go home to. Overall, the position taken so far by the Government is still valid, which was expressed at the end of 2015 in the EU's action to challenge the EU's decision on the distribution of migrants by compulsory quotas, according to which the solution chosen by the European Union to provide for a distribution based on compulsory quotas between Member States seeking international protection is flawed. Under international law, no sovereign State shall be obliged to take over and assess an application for international protection lodged in another Member State. The situation is not improving, which confirms our previous doubts, so we have no reason to change our conviction, and we even ask all Hungarians to reject the compulsory resettlement quota in the national referendum. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I would like to ask you to support the proposal for a decision on the basis of a report from the Committee on European Affairs, the adoption of which is not only against a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, but also complies with the rules of common sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-55	Thank you very much, ma'am. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is also speaking on the stand. I'll wait for him to make the place for himself. Yes, thank you very much. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In short, the position of the MSZP on the draft regulation of the European Commission and the proposal for a resolution that is attacking it, which is now before us. [[14.10]] 1. We believe that the refugee crisis can only be dealt with effectively through joint European action. This requires a common European border protection and asylum system. The burdens and responsibilities of this should not be passed on solely to border Member States. 2. Therefore, in principle, we reject the Fidesz position that Member States alone are able to handle the crisis more effectively than a strong European Union, this short-sighted policy carries the risk of a complete fragmentation of the Schengen area without internal borders. 3. However, the Commission's controversial draft regulation is inadequate to deal with the refugee crisis because it does not bring us any closer to creating a European institutional system, which is a systemic solution, which is urgently needed. In addition, the Commission's draft regulation imposes a payment obligation of EUR 250 000 per person for Member States temporarily excluded from the mechanism for the allocation of asylum applications. This amount exceeds the costs of the Member States receiving the asylum application, so that the payment obligation is clearly in breach of the principle of proportionality under Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In view of the principle of proportionality, the MSZP will also vote in favour of the proposal for a decision to initiate the yellow flat procedure. I would like to further describe the position of the MSZP in these points. First of all, we believe that the refugee crisis can only be dealt with effectively through joint European action. A single long-term, operational, systemic solution is to create common border protection at EU level, to establish a common asylum system organised at EU level, and to strengthen the common foreign and security policy and to engage more actively in crisis zones. The evaluation of asylum applications and the temporary placement of applicants shall be organised at the external borders of the Union. The reception of beneficiaries of protection should also be organised at EU level and the return of all persons who are not eligible for asylum should be ensured jointly. This requires a complete renewal of EU rules on EU border protection bodies, asylum organisations and asylum policies. Existing EU legislation, known as Dublin III. The regulation is completely and irreparably inadequate to deal with the situation. Dublin III. In this context, the regulation places all legal responsibilities both for border protection and for refugees on the EU's external borders. The Commission's current draft regulation does not want to change that. The MSZP submitted its proposal on the concept of common European regulation to Parliament last September. The proposal for a resolution that we have drawn up would have obliged the Hungarian Government to represent this effective, uniform European solution. Since September of last year, the MSZP proposal has also reflected in European policy. The creation of a common EU border and coast guard is already one of the European Commission's proposals, and the Austrian Foreign Minister made proposals similar to ours this weekend. Unfortunately, however, the European Commission also provides sufficient ammunition for Eurosceptic arguments. The Commission's proposal is inadequate to tackle the refugee crisis in a systemic and effective way, as it does not bring us closer to border protection organised at EU level, nor does it create the conditions for assessing asylum applications at the external borders. Instead, the basically flawed Dublin regulation continues to pass on all legal responsibilities, as I have said, to the external countries. Indeed, the protection of the EU's external borders must be a shared responsibility of all EU Member States, including Western European states. Today, it may seem to be the problem of Greece and Italy, but like the autumn parliamentary debate, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the unfortunate circumstance that Hungary is not at the heart of the Union but at its border. And that's not just a theoretical risk. Less than a year ago, the refugee wave from Kosovo, which was supposed to be handled by Hungary as the first Schengen State on its way, came to an end. Then the science of the Orbán government, which is now so proud, was only enough to allow everyone to leave to the West after a registration. This is also a clear warning that Hungary, as a country at the EU's external borders, has no interest in maintaining a regulation that puts all the burden on the border countries, either now or in the longer term. It is therefore unacceptable from a pan-European point of view and from the point of view of the Hungarian national interest that the European Commission will continue to adhere to the Dublin system. It is also unacceptable that it is not about making asylum procedures more effective, but about moving asylum seekers within Europe that is at the heart of the European Commission's efforts. The central issue should not be where asylum applications are judged, but whether the applicant is entitled to asylum or not. However, this is hardly mentioned in European forums. This approach can not only lead to unreasonable and safety concerns, but also risky situations with regard to asylum seekers. Because the asylum seeker who has been admitted to the territory of the European Union and has reached, say, Germany or Sweden, may already believe that he has achieved his goal, the disappointment will be the greater if it turns out at the end of the procedure that he will be deported back to his country. It is in everyone's interest, that is, refugees, the Member States of the European Union, and not least all European citizens, to clarify as quickly as possible, preferably even at the external borders of the Union, who is truly fleeing war and persecution and who is not. However, it is apparent that the Commission considers this essential issue to be multi-annual, and this is reflected in this fundamentally flawed draft regulation. Contrary to the draft regulation presented by the Commission in the autumn, this new proposal is not only unreasonable, unreasonable and conceptually incorrect, but some of its provisions are also in breach of the EU's Treaty, since it is obvious that it is disproportionate to require Member States who temporarily do not participate in the mechanism for the allocation of asylum applications to pay EUR 250 000 per person. This amount exceeds, as I said, the presumed costs of the Member State receiving the asylum application. In addition, the draft regulation repeals the provision that border States are exempted from the obligation to conduct the asylum procedure after one year after the asylum seeker's border crossing. Thus, as part of the so-called Dublin transfer procedure, asylum seekers could be deported to border countries after years. The obligation to do so without time limits for border countries is also a disproportionate burden. In view of this, the Commission's draft regulation is considered to violate the principle of proportionality under Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, the MSZP does not support the Commission's proposal, will support the proposal for a decision and will vote in favour of the yellow flat procedure and will vote in favour. What we want to achieve is that if the vast majority of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament and, by the way, the Member States of the Union could persuade the European Commission to understand that the European refugee crisis cannot be dealt with until we clearly separate people fleeing a real persecution, a war zone or for political reasons from migrants and immigrants who are otherwise coming to work for immigration purposes. This Commission proposal does not provide for a single sentence. This Commission proposal is only about how to divide the people who have already arrived. This proposal lacks the beginning and the end is missing. The beginning is that, as I said before, it should be clear who is refugee and who is not, and I think that there is no Fidesz MEP, and Viktor Orbán himself has made it clear that no European country can turn its back on real war refugees and political refugees. And find out who is not, and each Member State has its own sovereign right to decide whether or not to apply them on its own labour market, but it is not part of the European asylum procedure. If we can finally clarify this, then we can answer the biggest question of the European refugee problem. And then, I think that a European even distribution mechanism can be fair, which is obviously not about millions and hundreds of thousands of people, but about tens of thousands a year, which I think, from the point of view of any European country, can be nothing but a fundamental moral issue, neither financial nor any other problem. Finally, there should also be a Commission proposal on what Europe can do to those arriving here who have no real legal basis for staying in Europe and staying here. Therefore, they were neither refugees nor were granted residence, immigration or work permits. Their return is also a matter that no Member State can solve - and Hungary has already tried - on its own initiative. Until these questions are answered, the Commission's proposal cannot be supported either. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the lines of MSZP and LMP. - A rare applause from the benches of Fidesz.]] [[14.20]]
u2016-06-07-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, the proposal to adopt a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion and the adoption of the conclusion that the draft regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity justifies the protection of the safety of Hungarian people in the first place. In examining the principle of subsidiarity, the Committee on European Affairs came to this conclusion when examining the justification of the so-called corrective allocation mechanism and the legal basis. The migratory pressure on Hungary is significant. On the southern border, the number of border offenders has increased to over 13,000, the number of violent cross-border attempts has increased, and more than 17,000 asylum applications have already been lodged. Most asylum seekers in transit zones are immigrants who come from a safe country and are therefore economic immigrants. Each time the Christian Democratic People's Party sought a credible Christian opinion and a responsible political position on the migrant issue. According to the principle of dual responsibility, the actual persecuted must be assisted, in particular in their own country, and in neighbouring countries with their own culture, in the most part, to provide temporary shelter. But above all, it is our primary duty to protect the safety of our families, our country, our homeland. Furthermore, Europe must be protected from the incompatible masses, so that parallel societies with threats do not develop. Mass immigration has increased the threat of terrorism in Europe, has deteriorated public security, cultural-economic-social tensions are increasing. Migration flows, which are not adequately controlled, pose direct and indirect risks, and a common European solution is therefore needed to resolve the immigration crisis. Hungary has been pursuing a consistent immigration policy from the beginning: it protects Europe's Schengen borders, separates refugees from economic immigrants, rejects forced resettlement, and has developed an action plan called Schengen 2.0 to encourage a change of direction in the immigration policy in Brussels. In line with all this, the report and the adopted decision of the Committee on European Affairs are closely linked to the situation described, and it consistently represents the Hungarian immigration policy, which considers the protection of the Hungarian people to be the most important, our values, our achievements, the security of our future. At the same time, the experience so far, the failure and inability of EU solutions to solve the problem worldwide, indicate that only countries who know, respect traditional European values and who can join together on the basis of common values and will can provide a credible, effective response to the problem. The long and complex title would, in practice, be the creation of a new regulation by amending the Dublin Regulation or by means of a codification technique. In this respect, the Committee on European Affairs has made a report on the existence of the conditions for a reasoned opinion on the revised draft regulation and has concluded that it is legally possible to examine the principle of subsidiarity. Thus, the Committee on European Affairs discussed the issue in detail and in substance at two meetings, formed its position and drafted its report and adopted it by decision. The report contains the legislative background of the subsidiarity assessment, its subject matter, the Commission's proposal. The legal basis for the latter is the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the basis of which the European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall lay down measures to establish a common European asylum system, including the criteria and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for asylum or subsidiary protection. The effectiveness of EP responses to the migrant crisis so far is characterised by the fact that the implementation of these Council decisions is considered virtually ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, but also in our experience, we were once again convinced that Hungary's response to the migrant crisis and its proposed solutions have been operational and appropriate from the outset. Knowing the current report, we believe that the starting point of the European Parliament is fundamentally wrong when it sees the solution in their view that the migration burden on the European Union is being attempted to distribute or redistribute the regulation more fairly, efficiently or in any other way. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's 10-point Schengen 2.0 action plan offers a suitable and operational solution. It should be primary and decisive in the management of the solution and in the external dimension, i.e. the causes of migration should be addressed, eliminated and minimized. The external borders of the European Union should be ensured and any amendments to the asylum rules should only follow. On the other hand, with regard to the obligations under the existing Dublin system, the Hungarian position is that compliance with the existing legislation should be expected primarily from all the Member States concerned and enforced by means of the law, because even if the legislation has not been complied with so far, it does not solve the problem by creating new rules. At present, even migrants and asylum seekers are not being registered. Another question that should be considered in general as regards the validity of the draft EP Council Regulation is whether the Commission proposal does not go beyond the legal basis of the Dublin system, given that the contractual provision which the Commission has called for is specifically intended to determine the responsibility for assessing the asylum application, which is indeed the basis of the Dublin system, but also includes the inclusion of an automatic and both quantitative and timeless distribution mechanism. In addition to general concerns, there are some undeveloped and, in our view, unworkable ideas that appear absurd in the proposal. For example, an automated continuous monitoring system, which would be an up-to-date record of where and how many asylum applications have been lodged in the Union at a given time, would be a predefined benchmark of how many asylum applications a Member State has to assess or accept in a given reference year. If this benchmark were reached by a Member State at 150 per cent, the system would be virtually automated, bring in a certain additional allocation mechanism or an auxiliary allocation mechanism. There would be only one rule in random distribution, otherwise it is not yet known how the server would handle family members, how it would connect family members to people. The responsibilities of the Member States are still undeveloped in all other important details. The contribution of EUR 250 000 per asylum application, payable as a virtually fine, is not proportionate, reasonable, worrying and unacceptable, where a Member State would indicate for a period of 12 months that it does not wish or is unable to participate in this mechanism. In comparison, in last year's relocation decision, which we have challenged at the European Court of Justice, the Commission is paying EUR 6,000 for the persons to be relocated, so this is absolutely not in proportion to the EUR 250 000 item. By the way, according to the signals, the EP would not even grant an exemption or an exemption from redemption. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports and proposes to the Parliament for adoption a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion and a decision by the Parliament concerning the definition of the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. Ladies and gentlemen, After presenting the opinion of the KDNP, thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2016-06-07-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Staudt Gábor is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-60	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that a consensus has finally been reached on such an important issue between the main political parties of the Parliament, and I believe that most of the Members agree that this proposal and the examination of subsidiarity that the Committee on European Affairs has carried out should be forwarded, approved and forwarded to the relevant bodies of the Union. This is, on the one hand, a legally sound decision, so I have read through the report that has been placed on our table, which is legally correct, and it stands up to it on the basis of EU law. That's one part of it. Of course, we have also seen one where, let us say, the Hungarian Parliament does not always take advantage of the opportunities that are invested in it under EU law, but in this case we are glad that it has succeeded. However, it is also very important to explain the background to how we got here, as we are pleased that the left also recognises that supporting such a proposal, supporting such a proposal for a decision, is essential to at least signal to the Union that they are going in the wrong direction. I know that the signal is often not enough, and, where appropriate, as last year's Council decision of September 2015 had to be challenged before the EU court, sometimes it is also necessary, and in many cases we can also see that in many cases, there is still little of both, but it is very important that such a resolution should be voted by Parliament in as many numbers as possible. I might add that we would have been very pleased if, say, a year ago, the left had said the same things, or I must say that I do not want to go into a race in time, but, by the way, the refugee or immigration crisis - the name may change for certain groups of people, because there are refugees or immigrants or economic immigrants - we first indicated that this would be a serious problem. Otherwise, the removal of the border guard was also the reason why we thought it was a huge problem, a mistake at the time, but we are pleased that, by the way, the government connected relatively quickly with this at European level, and took the measures that were the responsibility of all EU countries, including Hungary. In protecting the Schengen borders, there is no novum, it is an obligation that we have taken on ourselves. So when this whole situation came to pass, it was incomprehensible how a good part of Europe, most of the democratic countries that hold themselves to the law, did not understand that Hungary was trying to protect its borders in one way or another, effectively or less effectively, but at least trying to protect its borders. So we have come to the conclusion that there is a demand for compliance with the legislation in force in one Member State. Since then, of course, a lot of water has flown down the Danube, and voters have faced it both in Germany and in other corners, as well as in the northern countries, what it means to open up borders and let everyone in, without considering where they come from, for what purpose they want to enter the Union, refugees or economic immigrants or even terrorists. We have also seen that a lot of terrorists have come in with this wave, and through our country several terrorists have passed through, and there have been rendezvous points here, and they have come here from Brussels and hired their fellow terrorists here. These are very dangerous trends. By the way, of course, those who said that immigration and terrorism were related were also called the first round fools, and I do not think it would be too difficult to see that if people could come in uncounted and unregulated, then the terrorists would obviously take advantage of it, because why wouldn't they do that, they would be stupid for themselves, if they didn't do that. So time has turned a long way, and I hope, by the way, that these trends will also be strengthened in Europe. It is in this report, and I am pleased that, for a sentence, it is in it that, on the one hand, the problem must be solved where it has been created, the problem has not been caused by Europe, it has not been caused by European states, it must also be understood or may arise - we are talking about world relations here - the responsibility of those countries which, on the one hand, as a rich Muslim country, as an Arab country, have made no effort to accept these people, and have closed their borders at the same time, let alone economic immigrants, even before refugees, before real refugees, is one of the situations in the world. However, even in developed countries, in which I often... or rather say that - not a good word is an inquiry, but - which has often been published articles about what is going on in Hungary, such as Japan, which is a modern democracy, far from us, a rich country, but when we looked at those asylum applications, and it also appeared in the international media that, let's say, how many people Japan has accepted, otherwise, how much of the thousands of applications have been judged positively, I don't want to say stupidity, perhaps there was a year of 16. And on top of that, the Japanese Prime Minister, who appeared in the press, asked how Japan could, as such a rich country to which a few thousand asylum applications have been submitted, say that the demographic issue is the most important issue in Japan, and now, I'm sorry, they have no time to deal with other issues. Oh, and there were also articles about what is going on here in Hungary and on the eastern end of Europe. So we could also experience a kind of pseudonymous media attitude, but the international press also kept going in the direction that the opinion had changed - of course, until then many of the slaps had been misplaced and unfairly, and then they did not say that they might have been right, the political forces that said that this would be a problem or that the problem had to be solved locally. I am therefore pleased that, on the one hand, it is said that it must be resolved locally, this may involve financial contributions, so that we should not be Pharisees, perhaps in order to solve a problem, all... not in this form that I am going to address, but to remove some burdens from the shoulders of certain countries, and that refugees, let us say, in the neighbouring countries, may have to spend money on this, or that the Union has to spend money on it, or otherwise resolve these conflicts, but otherwise it would not be only Europe's responsibility, but the involvement of the United States would also be equally important. They also took in - and this was published in the press - a few thousand Syrian refugees, less mention that in America there was about a year and a half of screening of a person, and most of the time, women and children were accepted, and even they were screened through a year-and-a-half screening process, and horror funds were spent to ensure that the few thousands of people who were admitted could not be connected to terrorism in any way, and then, of course, America allowed some people in, but this cannot be compared to what the circumstances forced Europe to do. In such a situation, Europe must obviously stand up for itself and not do - to turn a little towards legal arguments - that the leaders of the Union, seeing that they have no legal basis for pushing legislation down the throats of the Member States that they do not want, because they do not have such a right from the Treaties, have started to trick. They started tricking, and they used hundreds of tricks - if I was allowed to quote classics. First of all, it was adopted last year, in several circles, but I am thinking only of the September decision, so that such a distribution mechanism could be a quasi-binding transfer of these people. I would add that the legal basis did not exist either, so it is legitimate that we challenged it in court, in the EU court, because it refers to a passage on how and how to help a country that has problems with the presence of too many asylum seekers. So it gives a legislative opportunity to help a given country, but it does not involve putting a burden on other countries that he has not taken on, and there is no European consensus on this. Probably, when they saw that this could not be done, this year they resorted to a new trick, and the Commission presented a proposal that already represents a draft regulation, which would practically rewrite existing legislation in a way that would theoretically still be included in a normal legislative procedure, but because, as we see it, it is legally well beyond the scope of the mandate. [[14.40]] Moreover, it is stated that point (e) which is referred to as the legal basis is only concerned that the Union is empowered, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, to lay down criteria and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for asylum or subsidiary protection. The way in which it fits into this or how it can be included, on the one hand, to shift it towards a mandatory distribution mechanism; otherwise, it is not clear to me, or it is probably tricky to say it again, that we are actually talking about the examination of applications here. I think - although I was not obviously there in the debates that took place around the Commission, I think they were trying to sell this, that it was just a evaluation mechanism, that they would say how many of Hungary's main asylum applications have to be assessed. Another question is that it's not clear to me that if, say, they send me that list of hundreds - I just said something - that we have to judge, but let's just say those people aren't in the mood, let's say, to come here from Germany, so what? Or if these people disappear from the eyes of the authorities or the authorities, what happens? On the one hand, can Hungary judge these requests? I know that the Commission will try to adopt detailed rules here if we let them. We hope that this whole system will drown in the ashes, but if these people are not found, or Hungary will judge and say that there is no right to seek asylum, then how can they be deported? So there are so many questions about this. But again, if they were available, would they be deported here, or would they not want to come? And should we be in a closed camp, because if we open it, they'll probably go wherever they want because of the lack of borders within the Union? A lot of questions that are hard to find the answer to. The amount of EUR 250 000 is quite simply, allow me to consider it a perverted joke, and for two reasons it is interesting to prescribe it. On the one hand, if this is a criminal amount, otherwise it probably would like to be a criminal amount, if it is a criminal amount, then it does not have a double legal basis. So how can a Member State be punished, otherwise on the grounds of solidarity, but obviously the amount is such that we are not talking about solidarity, but we are talking about punishment, that he does not wish to assess applications or take over asylum seekers? This is what the Union, the Commission, is trying to impose as a punishment in its proposal, which is not good on the one hand, it does not have a legal basis, not even for the payment of the amount of solidarity, in my opinion, rather than for the imposition of a penalty. If, on the other hand, they refer to the fact that this is not a punishment, but a real solidarity contribution, then there is a huge problem that the real cost of EUR 250 000 for a refugee, even for a refugee - because there is no refugee at all, I add - but if we are talking about integration, then I have to say that the leaders of the Union see that the placement of an economic immigrant will cost EUR 250 000 for a country. So the arguments that they will create value, increase GDP, or at least they do not think so in Brussels, and thus try to distribute these burdens among the different EU countries are liars. So the draft is outrageous, it cannot be supported, it does not have a legal basis in the EU treaties, so we are very happy if the Parliament rejects it unanimously, but I must say that we cannot sit back, because these decisions will be taken back by the Union and not by asking for a unanimous decision, because let us be clear: these decisions could be taken by unanimous decision. Another thing is that there would be Member States that would be vetoing, but then we would have to adopt a regulation that everyone would agree with - and I think it would be possible to have such a regulation if the Union's main bureaucrats did not want to push everything through, but really looked to the interests of the nation states and asked their opinion. Let us hope that this will be the case in the future [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But let's be careful, because in these people, it seems we can't trust, unfortunately. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before giving Mr András Schiffer the opportunity to speak, allow me to pay tribute to the teachers and students of the oldest Reformed College and High School in Mezőtúri, which was founded in 1530. Welcome, all of you. May this visit be memorable to them, and their lives be free of obstacles, full of success! Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Group Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-06-07-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I'd like to say what's short is that H/10931. The May Other Group of Politics will support the resolution proposal. We consider it important to initiate a yellow flat procedure. However, like what we have heard in Márta Mátrai's keynote speech, I would also consider it important to recall the events of the past long year and to talk about what global or intra-European processes have led us here. This is because neither the draft European regulation nor the redress procedures in themselves bring us closer to a solution. Yes, it is quite clear that the global migration crisis that reached Hungary's borders and the gates of Europe in 2015 probably could not have developed in the previous decades. It could not have developed, on the one hand, because globalisation has taken such a course in recent decades that very similar cultural patterns are now seen by generations growing up in various cultures all over the planet. And the consequence of this direction is that what, let's say, in the '70s and '80s would have been quite unthinkable, for example, in remote parts of Africa or Asia, is indeed the XXI. By the end of the century, it had become possible. I would like to say here that for a green party, it is always the fundamental point that everyone has the right to live a decent life in their own homeland. In which we Hungarians and the entire European Union have a responsibility, so that everyone on the entire planet can live a decent life where they are born. This is also important because a green party is committed to cultural diversity, and cultural diversity does not mean an endless mix of cultures, but that all cultures can flourish and develop in their fields of origin. That is why we clearly distinguish cultural diversity policy from multiculturalism policy. Dear Parliament, When we talk about the causes, we must first mention that what was known as the export of democracy at the turn of the millennium is nothing more than the continuation of the new colony XXI. By means of hundreds of years of technology. The policy of exporting democracy, in which the United States of America is heavily responsible, but indeed we, as an allied state, were all about extending the harsh acquisition and abduction of natural resources. Today, as a result of the export of democracy, we see countries collapsing at the gates of Europe in the Mediterranean. I do not think that, while, of course, there is a place to talk about universal human rights principles, in terms of democracy, any people, any country in the world, can take the liberty of trying to impose a pattern on other countries, on other peoples. However, we also need to see - just as we have seen the events of the past one or two years - that in what has been developed at the gates of Europe, we have a heavy responsibility for European states, EU Member States and NATO allies. [[14.50]] How interesting that when a shocking act of terrorism is taking place in Europe, suddenly the share prices of European arms companies are rising. The first step that the European Union should have taken in the course of 2015 is to ban arms trafficking towards issuing states. On the other hand, it is not possible to go without saying that, for large European companies, the spell of cheap labour is a significant challenge, a significant challenge to influence the governments of certain European states towards a policy that is about maximumising profits. The question is, therefore, if we criticise the direction in which the planet is developing today, if we criticise the current direction of global capitalism, can it be approved that people from countries with unfortunate fates flow into Europe for work and livelihood, so that giant companies with a European center can exploit these people in extreme terms. I think that this cannot be approved, and exploitation and extreme exploitation must be said no. On the other hand, global responsibility is that instead of touching propaganda programmes, let us consider once again that if the world does take such a course that it is possible to rebuild the fragmented states in the Middle East, in the Mediterranean, and that the skilled labour force is being looted by the central countries, by global large companies, who will create functioning states in either the Mediterranean region or Africa. So a hypocrite is the policy that sees your humanism in opening the gates wide and bringing everyone here. This is not just a problem for Europe, but it is questioning the possibility that in the states at the gates of Europe or in the depths of Africa, Asia, one can ever live a decent life for the one who is born there. Obviously, a major challenge for Europe is a process that is not about preserving cultural diversity, but about developing a culture that is, of course, good for those who deeply believe in the beneficial effects of consumer society. However, we also need to talk about the fact that the global migration crisis has made it clear that the current rules of the European Union are not suitable for dealing with this crisis. Yes, we said that last year, and we say this year, too, in this debate too, that this crisis can only be resolved through joint European action. Another issue is that the zeroth point of this joint European action is that French, English and other military companies immediately stop exporting arms to the issuing countries. There is also a need for joint European action, a common European solution, and this is also a new challenge because it is not a XX. We are facing a century-old migration phenomenon where we know exactly where the issuing area is where there are fighting and we know exactly where the first safe neighbouring country is. In Hungary alone, immigrants from over a hundred countries arrived in Hungary last year alone, this year, in 2016 migrants from over 60 countries, from Haiti to Bangladesh, even from the EU's associated country, Albania, arrived in Hungary in 2016. This clearly shows that there are, of course, war refugees, there are, or there may be, climate refugees, who, by the way, the green parties are doing their best to recognise their status in the European Union, but there are economic immigrants, and the events of the last year show that potential offenders are involved in this crowd. The European Union and Hungary have failed in the past year, and the Hungarian government is also heavily responsible for its inability to distinguish between war refugees, where appropriate climate refugees, economic immigrants and potential offenders, although the capacity of the secret service is available for both Hungary and the European Union. I think that, when we are talking about a common European solution, there is indeed a need for the elements which, by the way, are contained in the Commission proposal. I do not think that it will be good for Hungary or the European Union if any political force within the Union, in Hungary itself, makes a question of the quota, if you will. It is simply that Hungary cannot refuse to accept a certain number of war refugees under certain conditions. However, we are now facing a situation where we are not talking about exclusively war refugees, but Hungary cannot ignore international legal and moral responsibility for war refugees and climate refugees. However, it is also quite obvious that, since this crowd was created by certain European states, namely Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany and Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, sent a self-invitation letter in non-EU competence, obviously in this case, so if the invitation letter was sent under the authority of a nation state, the burden of this problem cannot be decided in EU competence. There is a need for a common European solution, but this common European solution cannot be reached without national parliaments, and we share the European legal concerns that have just been expressed not only from the government side, but also from my fellow Member Belling on the Commission's proposal. The LMP faction supported a yellow flat procedure last autumn because, even if we agreed with the direction of such a proposal, I would say once again, which, in many ways, includes progress compared to last September's plans, the worst possible solution would be to have an EU legal standard put in place after that very serious legal and interpretation debates. The yellow flat procedure initiated by the government side may even serve the common European solution, where appropriate, as it creates a clear legal situation. I note here that we are therefore opposed to the initiative of the referendum until an EU court resolution is reached on these matters. However, as far as the content of the Commission proposal is concerned, yes, it is not possible to turn the quota issue into a question of faith, as Fidesz and Jobbik did last autumn, but it should be made clear that there are disastrous consequences for Europe for any quota system, any general allocation mechanism that does not contain a ceiling. The LMP made it clear last September that a refugee quota without a ceiling could not be supported. Everyone in Europe must take account of the fact that Europe's integration capacities are limited. The quota without a cap is not just a financial issue, it is not simply a burden on European welfare systems, but it is creating cultural conflicts that will simply be impossible for European nations, European states, to deal with. Dear Parliament, Of course, we share the concern expressed here for the financial sanctions, both on the government side and on the Socialist Party. Overall, I can say that, obviously, in a crisis of this magnitude, we are faced with a proposal for a resolution that is likely to go beyond the points of the EU Treaty, which raises subsidiarity issues, everyone's best bet is to put clean water in the glass and carry out this yellow flat procedure. However, it is vital for Hungary to promote a common European solution, which is not this, which is here as a Commission proposal. It is a matter of life for Hungary to establish a common European mechanism, a common European organisation with the necessary financial basis, but this common European solution cannot be reached without ratification of the national parliaments. [[15.00]] And not least, it should also be made clear that Hungary does not defy its moral and international legal obligation to refugees - war refugees, climate refugees - but does not wish to participate in the resolution of the problem that some European countries have self-inflicted. To be clear, this is not about resettlement or resettlement, it is about who has entered Germany and Sweden in 2015 who will conduct the asylum application procedure for them. I think that this problem is caused by Germany, which is why it is their primary responsibility to solve it, but Hungary must do everything it can to ensure that there is an allocation mechanism with a cap, an asylum system with a cap, where we can enforce our humanitarian principles and obligations at the same time, while at the same time ensuring Europe's economic stability and cultural diversity. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Further speeches can be made in accordance with the timeframes. I am speaking to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-64	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. Government parties, Fidesz and KDNP are sending a message to Brussels to the European Commission that the Dublin system can function properly only if all Member States fully apply these EU rules. In our view, the solution is not to create new rules, but to apply existing rules and enforce them with each Member State. However, before the reform of the Dublin system, we believe that the Schengen rules must be fully enforced, taking into account the provisions of the Schengen 2.0 Action Plan. Obviously, the main ambition of the Member States, who are serious about this, is to address the root causes of irregular migration outside the European Union. The burden should not be redistributed in this respect, but the burden should be reduced. Hungary will soon take a decision on this issue, and we will also draw the European Commission's attention to this, as a referendum is expected on this issue in the autumn, when all Hungarian citizens will be able to give their views on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is also for a two-minute speech by Mr Zsolt Legény from the MSZP Group. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-66	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, I have repeatedly said that I am a supporting member of the European Union. I think that Hungary has a place in the European Union, and if it is possible to put it that way, I am a Eurocrat, but not at all costs, not on all terms and not necessarily. We believe that this is the draft regulation, which was adopted by Dublin III. The Commission wanted to present an inadequate and inadequate draft regulation, both in terms of its content and its procedure, to review and amend it. As my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, in his speech to the speaker, said, we believe that this is not an appropriate procedure. The Hungarian Socialist Party has repeatedly said that Dublin III. The regulation should be suspended as it is, not absolved, not absolved, should not be improved, because it will not lead to a good solution. We therefore believe that this draft regulation will in no way stand in its place in substance, and we believe that, in the context of a so-called yellow flat procedure, we must indicate that this draft regulation, as it is, goes beyond the scope and in the ways that the Commission or the Council would have at its disposal. Therefore, we believe that we really need to initiate this yellow flat procedure. We have already clarified this at the committee meeting, but we also wanted to clarify it here in the House. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Richard Hörcsik, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to reply. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: Yes.]] Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the factions and fellow Members for the fact that this united debate could take place with a derogation from the house rules, which means that next week we can decide on the adoption of the decision. As I said earlier, this is the fourth time in Parliament that we can conduct a subsidiarity examination, and we can commonly start the yellow flat procedure. This is the instrument of the law that the Lisbon Treaty can use, if you will, against the stealthy legislation of the European Commission. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their focus on the content of the resolution proposal and their very constructive participation in the debate. I could also say that there has been a long-lost consensus between the walls of this House. I am pleased that my fellow Members see it in the same way. Six months ago, many people thought otherwise, but I believe that not only the Hungarian parliamentary parties, but also many Member States in the European Union, changed their views. Anything can be said about Hungary's Prime Minister, the Fidesz-KDNP faction, but I believe we have been on the same page from the beginning, and we have drawn attention to our firm position. It is not by accident that the Prime Minister's proposal was adopted by the European Council and, hopefully, incorporated in the decision of the next European Council at the end of June. So it was worth fighting, it was worth fighting. [[15.10]] I would also like to stress to my fellow Members that we are now in the early stages of EU decision-making, so nothing is lost yet, and during this period, national parliaments have not only the opportunity, but also the duty to draw attention, to the aspects on which the Commission does not consider the draft regulation so to be compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Once again, I would like to emphasise, as has been said many times, that we are using the law to shoot back at the European Commission, by launching the subsidiarity procedure, so that national parliaments can, if necessary, prevent the EU institutions from exceeding their powers. Allow me to briefly refer to what was said yesterday in the legislative committee's nearly three-hour debate. Subsidiarity testing should only be carried out where the relevant draft EU legislation regulates a matter of non-exclusive Union competence, i.e. only legislative initiatives falling within shared competence under Protocol 2 to the Lisbon Treaty are covered by this procedure. I believe, fellow Members, that, in our case, the action of the Hungarian Parliament is important and necessary, since the draft regulation is part VII. As has been said here, on the one hand, because of the distribution mechanism, the compulsory quota, financial solidarity, i.e. the fine, and the extension of the mandate in the chosen legal basis, we must say once again that we are using the instrument of law for what the European Commission intends to do by stealth legislation, by circumventing the heads of state in the Member States, only at ministerial level. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate has also shown that it is one of the most important European Commission initiatives under the Dutch EU Presidency, which has a strong interest on both Hungarian and European citizens. We cannot do that, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not establish a firm position on matters which fundamentally affect the security and future of Hungarian citizens. I trust that many national parliaments will follow our procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to thank the colleagues of the Committee on European Affairs, László Juhász, Csaba Tamás and Zsuzsa Dóczy for preparing this excellent report. You guys did a great job. As I look at the legislative process of the European Commission, I see that these reports will be drawn up more and more in the near future. So that's what we're supposed to do. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for their participation in the debate. Now I see that you understand the whole procedural mechanism of what it is. And with this legal opportunity, which we hope not only for the Hungarian Parliament but also for the yellow flat procedure, at least one third of the parliaments of the Member States will use to draw attention to the European Commission's legislative rampage. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and support representatives have proposed that the Parliament decide on a T/10347 on making the election of Members of Parliament more democratic. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Today, when, in the course of an hour, a half-dozen-two-thirds law has been passed, this legislation is also accepted, while, today, on 7 June, we would not think that there is absolutely a need for constitutional matters here in Hungary today, which also shows that this House is not working in an optimal manner. It shows that in this country there is an overpower that Hungary does not need, which can do anything at any time. Hungary's democratic system is not working well. There are many possibilities, and it will obviously sooner or later be possible to change this substance; in any case, the electoral law is an element of the Hungarian democratic system, which contributes to the basically building up of a distorted, unfair political power giving rise to astonishing abuses in Hungary. A significant reform of the electoral law was previously proposed by the representative body of the Együtt or the politicians of the Együtt, which was not accepted by this House, in which basically we called for the Hungarian Parliament to develop a proportionate electoral system. The proposal we are putting forward now has a more solid, moderate ambition, and proposes solutions that are, in particular, very obviously problematic in the Hungarian electoral law, and we are trying to correct elementary injustices. First of all, we drew up a report from the OSCE election observation delegation in Hungary two years ago. We have studied it thoroughly, and the proposals that they have proposed to avoid abuses of the Hungarian electoral law have been put into law. What are these suggestions? In Hungary, fair elections require equal rights, equal rights for voters. It is unacceptable that Hungarian citizens living or staying abroad vote in a different way, and their licenses are spectacularly different. It is completely untenable that a plural recommendation is possible in Hungary, which is obviously not justified by anything, but is an astonishing amount of abuse. We find it very problematic, as did the OSCE delegation, the system of individual constituencies. We propose in our bill that, on the basis of a proposal from independent experts, we redefine the boundaries of the electoral districts. We also propose that this form of winning compensation, which exists today, should be abolished because it creates an extremely distorted and unfair system. The advertising situation of the election campaign, namely access to public and public media, is very problematic because of their pricing. It is recommended that we do so in any case. We also recommend that all campaign accounts be public. Politicians and political parties are spending incredible money on campaigning in Hungary today, and there is no trace of it at all. We also find it very problematic that false civil society organisations modify, influence, distort free competition between fair parties through substantial State aid. We propose to implement the principles of fair choice in this bill. In addition, we would like to make there to be more women in the Hungarian Parliament than there is now. We believe that this is a social justice issue, and by the way 70 percent of the voters would require much more women to participate in the parliamentary work in Hungary, in line with the voters. As athletes have been growing in the Hungarian Olympic delegation since 1924, compared with almost half of the athletes today, none of this has happened in the world of politics. In Hungary, fewer than 10 percent of women are involved in politics, and above all it depends on the fact that Hungarian parties simply do not care about putting women in a position in politics. The quota is basically trying to eliminate this incredible disadvantage. I ask you to support my proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent and the Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now one representative per group of Members can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member in a two-minute time frame. The first of the Fidesz Group is to speak to Mr Répássy, Mr Róbert. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the majority position of the Judicial Committee, on the basis of which it rejected the inclusion of the motion of the Member, the electoral law currently in force is more democratic and just than the earlier electoral law. In 2010, the current governing parties obtained a two-thirds majority on the basis of the previous electoral law, and in 2014 they obtained a two-thirds majority on the basis of the new electoral law, while in 2010 they were able to win a total of two opposition representatives out of 176 individual constituencies and in 10 single constituencies of 106 single constituencies in the new electoral law. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] What could be more democratic and just than that opposition parties have been able to acquire more single mandate constituencies in the new electoral system than in the previous one, while the parliamentary proportion of the ruling parties has not changed? So it is clear from this that the two-thirds majority of the governing parties have not been obtained because of the electoral law, since they have obtained a two-thirds majority in both voting rights systems. And not because of the electoral law, but because of the free will of the electorate, the present parties became majority and opposition. As regards other techniques of electoral law or electoral procedure, for example, the current electoral law has also laid down unchanged rules for voting at foreign representations for decades. Thus, the vote at foreign representations can be voted in exactly the same way as the voters had voted earlier. [[Dóra Dúró: A little more people live abroad.]] That is why the majority of the Judicial Committee did not support the proposal. [[15.20]]
u2016-06-07-73	Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to thank Mr President for his speech, and then I would like to ask my fellow Members that, until the two-minute window, there is also an opportunity for the independent to register, so far no one has checked in. It is now time for Congressman Csaba Gyure from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely difficult to talk about this in two minutes, especially since my fellow Member Répássy has been very upsetting here, and the two minutes would not be enough to answer that, but it is simply ridiculous that because more opposition representatives have been in individual seats until now, it would prove that the system is more democratic. Ferenc Gyurcsány directed the 2010 election for you that Fidesz carried practically everything in the single mandate constituency, but this is a completely different subject. One thing is certain, we can say that this electoral law that we have is wrong, completely and completely wrong. Why is it bad? It is bad because 56 percent of the country wanted a government change in 2014, compared with two thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP won. Somebody explain to me that if more than half of the country wants a change of government, that party can win! ? It is clear that we are talking about a totally disproportionate system that perfectly overcompensates the winner in all sorts of ways. Here the question of fractional votes is simply ridiculous, the winner takes everything, it is ridiculous; the fact that those working abroad who have a permanent address here in Hungary are excluded from the election, and the Hungarians are excluded from the election by hundreds of thousands. Of course, you can go to the embassy 800 kilometers away and vote, get in line at 6:00 a.m., and maybe get in line after midnight. If everyone left, hundreds of thousands would go, say, to the Hungarian embassy in England, London. It's simply amazing, technically and inconceivable in all forms! One thing we can say is that you wanted to exclude a lot of people, people you know very well that you will not vote for, because you forced them to work in Hungary, and they have to be 1,000-1500 kilometers away from their own country. One thing I know for sure is that this needs to be changed. Whether it is necessary to change in this way, it is questionable that we agree on a lot of things that are set out in this bill, and of course we do not think that quotas, women's quotas, and men's quotas can solve the question of the broadest possible layer of society. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-76	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The LMP faction supports inclusion in the series, despite the fact that, of course, there are elements here that we disagree with and argue with, but the problems raised about the current voting rights regime are real. For example, what the proposal seeks to change is to stop overcompensating, to end the principle of the winner taking everything, because whatever my fellow Member Répássy says, this is indeed distorting the will to vote. It is an important element of the bill to enforce the gender quota, quite simply because, while centuries of nerves do not simply put women at a disadvantage, but, to say the least, do not recall the intention of many talented women with competence to participate in public life, indeed, these, if you like, harsh legal instruments can help these often centuries-old dams to collapse. I would also like to say that it is also an important element of the proposal when it comes to allowing those who have fled the Orbán regime abroad, economic immigrants today in Great Britain, Germany or the United States, even with us who are here, to exercise their right to vote. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member Répássy that, for example, a few weeks ago in Austria there was a presidential election, where the Green Party won, where in many cases voters electronically cast their votes from abroad. So all I can say is that it would take a little will to get hundreds of thousands of emigrants to vote correctly. True, this intention is not in Fidesz, because these people were fleeing Fidesz abroad. As far as political advertising is concerned, we agree with the direction of the proposal, but the solution would be to comply with LMP's demand. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] government propaganda would be banned once and for all, and a penny would not be given to the government at all for political propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask what is the electoral system where opposition parties receive more votes from voters than the current governing parties, but the current governing parties win the election by two thirds. I think that this is an untenable, distorted system, and this is what the OSCE expert team says, among other things, was not a fair choice. Ladies and gentlemen, What is an election system where people dressed in civilians can do dirty work for the government instead of public money, and that doesn't count in the campaign's budget for the government parties? What is the electoral system, and what is the government in which the president of the electoral committee, elected by you, would not take his recommendations? András Patyi has repeatedly said that the system of plural recommendation must be abolished because it is a cause for abuse. You know, my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, the rules of the foreign vote have actually looked like this before, but this is not the idea that the Fidesz government is pushing hundreds of thousands of workers and Hungarians abroad with the policy it is pursuing, because these many people will not be able to vote at their foreign representations, and otherwise they will not demand the same thing, let us say, from Hungarians living outside the border. This dissonance, I think it's time to put an end to it. Of course, we can also talk about winning compensation, also about drawing up electoral district boundaries, all of these elements that make the current electoral system unfair, distorted and unsustainable; it can meet one, a single principle, and only the principle of Fidesz. We therefore support any proposal that makes this distorted and unsustainable electoral system more proportionate, including the one before us. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congresswoman Agnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-80	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Democratic Coalition will support the inclusion of this proposal in the series for a number of reasons, and I would now like to highlight two. On the one hand, my fellow Members have already talked about the number of hundreds of thousands, if not, of those who have fled from the Orbán regime in the hope of a better life, and for whom the current electoral law makes it difficult for them to exercise their fundamental democratic rights, thus alienating them from their own country, because if they cannot shape the fate of their own country, sooner or later they will not only change jobs, but also their country, and this will be a huge loss for Hungary. It is therefore imperative to take action in this matter, even because we believe that all Hungarian citizens, although living in London or in one of the neighbouring countries, must have the same right and have the same option in terms of voting. The other topic that we have talked about a lot and in this the Democratic Coalition programme speaks very clearly is the issue of women's quota. In this case, on the issue of quota, there are countries that are far ahead of Hungary, and it has been proven that where there is a greater presence in politics, the course of legislation is much different, there are more aspects that are least relevant in today's Hungarian Parliament. In countries where women have a greater political role and a greater economic role, the number of cases of corruption is much smaller, although the current Mafia state-like operation in any government, in the case of a democratic government, can only be smaller, not even women need politicians who really, only think normally. We would very much like to have a quota, the Democratic Coalition programme has a 30 percent list of women's quotas, but we would also like a quota to be allocated to the board of directors and supervisory board of companies for that purpose. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that we can be as many as possible and influence the country's life in the right direction. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. His time frame is two minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-82	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the comments, the supporter, the debater. It is clear that Mr Répássy, Mr Róbert, was unable to give any credible criticism of my proposal, only the amendment of the electoral law before 2014 introduced Gerrymandering, obviously the access of opposition parties to the public media was severely restricted. [[15.30]] There is no reason not to vote by letter in Hungary, as in most countries around the world. There's no reason why a government has to finance fake parties. There is no reason to collect additional recommendations that have caused quite astonishing abuses, and there was no reason to do so. So the proposals that I have put in place, and apparently all the opposition parties have supported, are self-evident, rational, rational ideas, the least that this Parliament should do today, so that the parliamentary elections will be clearer and fairer next time. With regard to the female quota, it is simply a civilizational achievement. In most countries of Europe, this is already the case, not in the northern countries, but also in Eastern Europe, and this is due to the clear demand that women be represented by women in Parliament. We're not talking about a female quota. The fact is that today in Hungary there is 90 percent male quota in this House, there is 95 percent male quota in the Fidesz faction, and everywhere in the world it has been proven that political parties are the ones that hinder women who are otherwise active at lower political levels from moving up to national decision-making. If the parties cannot do this, this elementary civilization movement and support, then the wise parliament usually intervenes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and allows it in a binding way for women. This will also be inevitable in Hungary, simply without it this Parliament is one-handed, one-legged, unjust and unable to fulfil its task. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Dr. András Schiffer applaud.]]
u2016-06-07-83	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on Monday. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and Bernadett Szél, as well as supporters, have proposed that the Parliament decide on the adoption of the H/10286 Convention in Istanbul. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-84	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is not the first time that we have tabled ratification of the Istanbul Convention in the Hungarian Parliament. This title is a little misleading, and it would be much better if we did not have to say the name of a foreign city, but to talk about how the Hungarian Parliament contributes, how it confirms that the state protects its citizens from violence, precisely women and children, those who are constantly and systematically raped because of their female nature or within the family. That is what the Istanbul Convention is about. The Istanbul Convention is a very forward-looking international convention, the essential element of which is that violence is intolerable and unacceptable, its first principle and the state's need to protect its citizens from violence. It is the duty of the state not to expose anyone to violence in the streets, in the workplace, in Parliament, in his home, in sports halls, in church institutions, in any invisible place that is invisible to the public. In Hungary, unlike European numbers, although the exposure of women and children to domestic violence and violence in other closed places is as significant as in other countries, the institutional system that would help them not to avoid violence and punish those who abuse others is so weak in this country that every week a woman dies in Hungary. In the last three weeks, more such cases have occurred, including the starving death of a young child. None of this could have been if this country had already established an internationally recognised protocol to ensure that there is an ongoing anti-violent campaign in this country. In buses, subways, state offices, medical offices, sports halls, there should be an anti-violent campaign everywhere to point out that there is no need to tolerate violence and where to turn for help when someone is being subjected to violence. Violence can be physical abuse, psychological abuse and sexual assault. Today, we know more and more about how widespread this is. You have to campaign and keep on knowing, because violence happens in secret a lot, violence is about power, it's about doing what I want to do to you, and in situations where women and children are most vulnerable. The second task of the state is to set up a system of defence institutions to prevent women, children and domestic violence from being abused, so that it can escape. I've spent the last year in shelters that are in secret places, and I've met a lot of women and their children everywhere. There is no more heartbreaking experience than talking to these people, who, mostly after many years, during the night, flee from another brutal abuse, leaving everything behind to save their lives, to save their health, children and women who have been living in terror at home for years, which no one notices, because the institutions and offices around them close their eyes. If there is a system of institutions, then this cannot happen, but the patroness, the kindergarten teacher, the court, the police, a village elite will notice these, you know, and know what to do, because they are trained for it, and because they know what to do. This can be done without any particular difficulty, because in a lot of other countries this has already happened. It is only a matter of political intent whether the Hungarian government wants to protect women and children against violence in invisible places or not in Hungary. When you systematically reject the ratification of the Istanbul Convention every two months, I must think that there is no political will to do so in this government, so it is Parliament's job to create this, and I trust in your cooperation, because there has not been any activity in the government in the last year to advance this ratification. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , and there is no budget planning for 2017 for the establishment of this institutional system. Three sets of stadium chairs can create an institution that is needed to prevent so many women from dying due to violence in Hungary. I am very confident in your support, and I hope that this will be the occasion when this proposal is finally put on the agenda by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-06-07-85	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-86	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The ruling parties are so in agreement with the Istanbul Convention that on 14 March 2014 the Government of Hungary signed the Istanbul Convention on behalf of Hungary. So this government signed the Istanbul Convention and fully agrees with the Istanbul Convention. What you have tabled is the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, i.e. the adoption by Parliament, which is a prerequisite for adapting certain Hungarian laws to the commitments entered into by the Istanbul Convention. This has already been done in a decisive part, so Hungary meets the requirements of the Istanbul Convention in a decisive part and in a decisive part. Remember that in recent years, Parliament has adopted, for example, criminal law or other legislation that responds to domestic violence, but the government is preparing the necessary legislative amendments for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. What you are proposing would be a mock-up solution whereby the Parliament would ratify the Istanbul Convention without the country being able to fulfil its commitments under the Istanbul Convention. [[15.40]] Therefore, it is necessary that the Government prepares these commitments for Parliament first in the form of legislation, or even at a lower level of legislation, the Government creates them, and then there is no obstacle to ratification. I note that in the last two years, since two years have passed since the Government signed, only a few Member States have been able to ratify the Istanbul Convention, many Member States have not yet. We are pleased that Hungary is leading the way in implementing the commitments entered into by the Istanbul Convention, but we consider it premature to adopt your proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-06-07-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is no coincidence that my fellow Member, Bernadett Szél, is one of the authors, and therefore not necessarily arguing with what Robert Répássy said in his introduction, of course, about the importance of why this convention should be ratified. Not least because, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, one of the nine Member States of the Council of Europe today is Hungary, where it is not guaranteed that the prosecutor will prosecute all forms of domestic violence. It is not the signing in itself, but the ratification that has a meaning beyond the legal system, my fellow Member, Répássy. It is simply that the standards protecting not only women, but also children, which, by the way, are embodied in the Istanbul Convention, state that Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, must accept its values and aims as mandatory in Hungary as well. This is an important signal to citizens in a country where statistics are often alarming in relation to domestic violence. But it's also an important signal for the lower levels of the state organization, if you will. Because today, it is a huge problem that the competent authorities, public institutions, whether I think of the police or hospitals, are not necessarily sensitive, there are no mechanisms that, when a signal comes to these institutions, or they experience such acts of violence, they should be sensitive to the victims. There is no proper victim support system, where appropriate, there are no psychologists in the police, hospitals, who would otherwise be able to effectively treat the people who suffered violence. This is why it is important to indicate in itself that a country ratifys the Istanbul Convention as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is most important to point out that with the principles, the intention, the support that this proposal for a resolution seeks to provide to women and children who have been raped, Jobbik is most strongly in agreement, and we condemn all forms of violence. However, there are points in this proposal for a decision that we do not agree with. For example, point 2 states that the aim is to eliminate all forms of violence within the family and, above all, against women. We believe that it is wrong to highlight and, above all, mention any form of domestic violence, to prioritise the forms of this violence. But if we do so to highlight any form of violence, we can highlight, for example, which is the most widespread, which is the most brutal, or which is where the victim is the most innocent and most defenseless. 'Cause these four, the four conditions for domestic violence are for abortion. All four cases, so that the most widespread, the most brutal form and the most innocent and defenseless victim, all four of them are for abortion at the same time. Since 4 June 1956 - another sad anniversary, which is also linked to 4 June - six million Hungarian children of fetal age have been the victims of abortion, with international surveys showing that unwanted pregnancies also lead to desired children. Such a survey was carried out in the United States and the Czech Republic. They asked women who had planned an abortion in advance and then refused to do so. They asked if they were happy that this was denied, and 95 percent said that yes, abortion would have been a bad decision. If we're talking domestic violence, we should talk about it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-07-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Yes, the Cabinet has signed the agreement earlier, yet it is reluctant to talk about domestic violence, especially in Hungary, although this affects not only women in Hungary, but also people with disabilities, elderly people and children. I'd like to speak specifically about the children. Do you know that every form of violence against children has been prohibited by law in Hungary since 2005? Do you know that although there is zero tolerance to child abuse in our country, 70 percent of parents consider it acceptable to hit their child? Do you know that more than a quarter of children believe that their parents have the right to hit them, even if they do not? Violence against children is one of the biggest problems of the rights of the child in Hungary, despite the prohibition of this by law, we can see it. There are four forms of violence against children: physical violence, sexual violence, neglect and emotional abuse. There is no quantifiable material in Hungary today about the individual, family and community consequences of domestic violence and its multi-generational impact. This should be replaced by the current cabinet. Quantification of the direct and indirect costs of violence should be encouraged on the basis of the practical reason for making it visible how much violence and its consequences are costing anyone in Hungary. I think that the events of recent months have also shown us that the Istanbul Convention should be ratified as soon as possible, and that there is no reason on the part of the ruling party that other countries have not done so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It's time for Congresswoman Agnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-94	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Democratic Coalition will support the inclusion of this proposal. Of course, we support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The Convention was opened for signature in 2011, so it is no wonder that the Orbán government could sign it. However, in the previous cycles, we began to talk in a normal manner about what should be done about domestic violence. I remember then that my fellow Members spoke in a distinctly normal manner on this subject, not as in the previous term, some Members of the Fidesz Group, who said that if women give birth to three or four or four or five children, there would be no domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen, The Istanbul Convention is not just about whether the Hungarian State is preparing, establishing the institutional system to protect the protection of the person who has suffered physical, psychological or sexual abuse in the family. It's a philosophical question. The Istanbul Convention is about whether this country protects those who need it. Be he a child, be he a woman, old or young. It is also about how this country views women's right to self-determination. The Istanbul Convention is not just about punishing a woman. It is about what we think about equal opportunities for Hungarian women and, of course, Hungarian men, because domestic violence also affects men with high visibility. This is not just about training cops to behave in such a case, or training judges to behave. This is about what Parliament and the pro-government majority, the current government and the parliamentary group associated with it think about women's freedom in Hungary today. The Democratic Coalition believes that this would be another step towards equal opportunities and equal rights for women and men in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi says yes.]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[15.50]]
u2016-06-07-96	Thank you very much. Hungary does not take the lead in this area at all. It doesn't matter who's ratifying it, putting it into effect, implementing the Istanbul convention, the question is what's going on in that ominous country. There are a lot of European countries that have not ratified the Istanbul Convention, because they take it seriously without being able to tolerate violence within the family and in enclosed places. So the Istanbul Convention is a crutch for us, because Hungary is the European country where most women die of domestic violence. I suggest that everyone who thinks that Hungary is on the right track or is well placed to talk to women who are being abused. It simply reveals what is going on in this country and what is not going on. And how incredibly vulnerable such a woman and her children are, how incredibly humiliated, basically abused women stay in these relationships in Hungary, suffering for the rest of their lives. If they step out of it, it happens after five to ten years, because they are in such an amazing state that they have to run away from everything, and then it happens to them that they try to get into some protective facility, of which exactly one tenth is available today in Hungary as is needed in a country of this size - then how do they think about it? That they don't want a divorce, because they know that if they go to court, they're going to be the defendant's role compared to the fact that they've been abused and victims for decades. And most of the time, the Hungarian courts cannot handle such situations. Therefore, a significant part of the Hungarian divorces that are initiated by women do not even show that they are there because of an abusive relationship. After an abusive relationship, a separated relationship, children have to meet systematically with the abuser. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] These are all absolutely amazing things. No. No, Hungary doesn't look good, there's nothing to be proud of, and it's time for the Istanbul Convention to be fully implemented by the Hungarian Government, and I would ask Parliament to call the government to do so with this resolution proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-97	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the National Assembly decide CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/9648 amending Act T/9648 on the need to limit the functioning of the central bank to reasonable limits. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-07-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We all know why this bill was drafted and what it was intended for. The insane and illegal distribution of public money in the National Bank of Hungary must be stopped. Our proposal has three elements. The first states that the MNB should not engage in activities that are not related to its tasks as defined in the Central Bank Act or use its assets to carry on such activities. We think that should be said, because György Matolcsy interprets the Central Bank Act as being able to do everything that it doesn't. The second part obliges the National Bank to pay part of its profits into the profit reserve until it reaches HUF 150 billion. When the profit margin reaches HUF 150 billion, the total amount of profit must be paid into the budget. This is the practice of the German central bank, for example. The third element eliminates the Pallas Athena foundations created by the MNB. We just don't need them. Our bill also states that the MNB can only be owned by an economic company which is able to carry out the activities related to the core tasks of the central bank as defined in the MNB Act only in this form. Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked many times about this subject here in the walls of this House. We've made the main arguments. The MNB misinterprets that it is legally authorised to buy art, educational activities, real estate and the like, and misinterprets examples from abroad. The activity of foreign central banks in this direction is of a much smaller size, and the lesser resources primarily reported by fines are used for this purpose. Moreover, a significant part of the profits of foreign banks are not generated by the HUFing of foreign exchange loans at the market rate to the detriment of foreign exchange lenders. A construction that removes such a degree of national wealth from public control is nowhere to be found. But I warn you to be proud of that, because the spending of the Matolcsy foundations has recently become a symbol of mindless money-shopping, overpriced luxury real estate purchases from offshore companies, the small-taffirunging of relatives and the emigration of public funds into private pockets. [[Intruders: Disappointment! It's outrageous!]] There is another element that has so far received little attention in the management of foundational assets. This is the securities held by the foundations in which the transferred assets are held. As it turns out, not all the securities finance the Hungarian government debt. The MNB purchased Tesla and Netflix bonds through Ferida Zrt., jointly owned by four MNB foundations, for a million dollars Tesla and half a million dollars Netflix corporate bonds. This is interesting because this step goes against a number of high principles. On the one hand, pure speculation, there is no guarantee for these bonds. Plus, they're American multinationals. The government always says he's against the multinationals, and he buys the company's bonds. And that it is not a life insurance policy to invest in these products, it shows that in January, for example, Tesla's shares fell more than 40 percent, and many analysts were already afraid of this company's final fall. The value of Netflix was halved then, which is no wonder. In such a market, a company can be destroyed by a new competitor in a quarter. The fact that, while the Hungarian government is burning and ironing renewable energy development opportunities, the National Bank speculates with one of the most innovative renewable technology companies. Short: Speculating with foundational resources also proves that the management of the Hungarian National Bank plays, speculates and charity with public money as if it were its own, and, of course, nervous if warned about it. That is why this story must now end radically. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support our proposal.
u2016-06-07-99	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr András Schiffer of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-06-07-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that, under the current central bank law, such foundations could not be assigned to the Hungarian National Bank today either, since the relevant paragraph of the Central Bank Act, which defines the tasks of the Central Bank, is clear that it can perform only a statutory task, and such legal authority as these foundations carry out, is not available. At the same time, there is no doubt that the law will allow the central bank to appoint a foundation towards the end. We would like to close this loophole and this interpretation debate with this proposal. In parallel with the bill, we initiated the prosecution to initiate judicial supervision proceedings, and we also initiated criminal proceedings for misappropriation, and just today we have received the prosecutor's decision to refuse an investigation. Dear Parliament, The LMP has always stressed that it agrees with the monetary policy and interest policy of the current central bank management. As opposed to the interest policy of the Járai and Simor central banks, we believe that this monetary policy is correct. But an otherwise correct monetary policy does not give anyone authority to lawlessness. And one more thing. The fact that interest policy has developed this way over the past period is not due to the genius of György Matolcsy or not merely to the correct decisions of the central bank, but to international financial processes. [[16.00]] It is important to have a sufficient reserve and not to beat it up for offshore knights, and not to pay relatives, pals, or different family members what is accumulated as a reserve, as a profit, because if worse times come, what is missing as a reserve today will be replaced by taxpayers. This sausage that György Matolcsy has surrounded the central bank, the price for it [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian citizens will pay. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-101	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mr János Volner is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue where my fellow Member has left off: I agree that the kind of monetary policy that has now been implemented, partly for international reasons, and partly because of the activities of the central bank management, is much better than what the central bank presidents did during the socialist governments. If you look at the financial balance of this process, the interest surplus was as high a year as Hungary was forced to pay thanks to the high rate of the central bank's base rate, as it has been charged to the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank on an annual basis. Therefore, if a balance is to be drawn, the period of central bank management dominated by the Socialists is extremely bad, since it has cost a lot of money to operate the central bank in this way. However, it is also important to see what Congressman Schiffer has referred to, that the central bank, under the Central Bank Act, can only set up foundations to support its main tasks, and nothing else. Most of these activities, which are carried out in these foundations, do not meet this objective, and the State itself, as the owner of the central bank, does not enforce its ownership rights in accordance with the current central bank law. The law itself has a restrictive effect on the state, since the management of the central bank is practically independent in deciding what it does or does not do with the profits it has generated for reasons that are partly outside of it. This situation needs to be changed, and I believe that the LMP proposal is in the right direction and appropriate, and I support it myself, and the Jobbik fraction also calls for the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Legény is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the application for a series of articles of legislation before us, and we support this because the management of the Hungarian National Bank in recent years has indeed left much to be desired. My fellow Members before me have already said that let us say how the National Bank of Hungary can set up foundations and pump funds and funds, and we do not understand very, very much how this could be done. We think that this is a bill that would at least try to clarify this, or at least try to clear the air, and I think that it would also be in the interest of my fellow members of the government, Fidesz and KDNP, that, after the scandals of the past periods, the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is indeed, let us say, to return to the old bank and actually to perform the function for which this institution was created. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] So I would also like to encourage my Fidesz fellow Members to support this series of proposals, because we believe that they have noble goals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-105	I very much welcome my fellow Members. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, if she wishes to comment.
u2016-06-07-106	I would like to thank you for your support, and we very much hope that the government will see that this story really needs to end, because if the government does not do so, it should also be aware that they are now taking responsibility from György Matolcsy, and now the government cannot say that the central bank is independent and that György Matolcsy is responsible for everything. In the future, the government will have to take responsibility here.
u2016-06-07-107	Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. The rapporteur is Mr András Schiffer. Here.
u2016-06-07-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For the 12th time in four years, I have brought to the House's plenum a bill for the exploration of the past of state security, and for the fourth time this proposal for a law on public disclosure has been supplemented by a proposal for a Lustration Bill. And before being swept off the table with the usual arguments, I would also like to point out that in this bill we also have the motion that the Hungarian Parliament oblige the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Hungarian Government, to act in Moscow, not in order to extend the nuclear pact and the Hungarian energy dependency, but in order to have a military, political dependence on the Russians between 44 and 91, we would like to know what they contain in the archives of the old NKVD and then the KGB about Hungarian people, about Hungarian political processes. [[Intervention from opposition representatives: That's right!]] There is no misinterpretation here, not only about the hundreds of thousands taken to the Málenkaki robot, but also of course their memory, especially last year's Gulag Memorial Year; it is also about the fact that even in the 1980s, murders took place in Hungary whose background is still undetected, and many people have had reason to suspect Russian secret service intervention. As far as the 12th time motion is concerned, I would like, again and probably for the last time, to state that it is not just about exploring the past, or, if you will, secondary to exploring the past. The purpose of this present is this bill of public disclosure. It is simply a matter of finally looking into each other's eyes, not looking at each other as idiots, and let us speak openly and clearly about the fact that the system-changing parliament was already full of people involved in communist state security, economic change and the change of regime in the media with actors who turned old communist state security relationships into financial capital or, where appropriate, information that they could gain power in the media market. Do we want a Hungary where, even after a quarter of a century, not only politics, economy and media are woven and manipulated by networks that are invisible, networks that, by the way, owe their existence and influence to a dictatorship? Dear Parliament, I would also like to make it clear - referring to a previous debate here with my fellow Member Répássy - that the proposals of the LMP did not contain sanctions on any occasion. We believe that, after 25 years, we have good reason to believe that the moral greatness of the Hungarian people and the moral judgment of our fellow citizens is so great that if the information is public, everyone can judge who, in fact under duress or because of a one-time misrepresentation, has committed acts of demise, who, although his name is present, has not harmed anyone, and who they are - since, let us be clear, the point is not the identity of the spions, but who have volunteered and sung, but who have taken a leading role in today's communist state security. Commander's Bridges. The 12th time the proposal is here and it is likely to be voted off for the 12th time, it means that Fidesz-KDNP is giving a diploma to former Communist state security officers. [[A statement from opposition representatives: There they are!]] Because the Lustration Bill, which is sewed together with it, already contains sanctions; the NPR is not, the Lustration is. Indeed, we would like to make it clear that in the new Hungarian democracy - although it is strange to talk about a new Hungarian democracy since 2010 - even a Prime Minister's Advisor who was otherwise involved in communist state security, that he cannot be the State Secretary of the Hungarian Government who worked as State Security Officer to the current Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on 16 June. [[16.10]] We would like to make it clear that those who are involved, whether with the leadership bodies of the old party or with the networks of the old communist state security, can neither assume public authority nor be consultants to public authorities. Dear Parliament, I think that this is a moral debt, a quarter-century moral debt, and as long as the invisible past lives here with us, Hungary will not go from one to the other. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-109	There are now two two-minute comments per group. I'll give the floor to Mr. President Novak first.
u2016-06-07-110	Dear Parliament, With András Schiffer's bill on the transparency of the state security past, including so-called agent lists, I have a problem that I didn't think about his submission. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If I were a party soldier, I'd try to catch him, I could, I'd have an amendment, but I just have to say one word: congratulations. Of course, I do not have to be ashamed of the inaction, because our proposal with my fellow Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy has led to success the closest. In Fidesz, 55 voted against the faction discipline on 23 December 2011 in a roll-call vote we requested, when the National Remembrance Committee was required to name and publish the members of the former Chief of State Security Group of BM's professional, open and secret staff, all network personnel, agents, as well as military intelligence personnel and networks. Instead of adopting our proposal, however, there is also a smudge around the National Remembrance Committee, which serves only the illusion and delay, while even the government could be a member of the former colleague of Péter Medgyessy D-209, an agent of III/II, János Martonyi, and currently a member of the government, the also III/II László Tasnádi State Secretary. Shame! However, Jobbik's three most important anti-communist programme points are the exploration of the state security past, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions until 2060. For the past 26 years, the common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments is that these cases have been only smeared, so the victims of communism are spinning in their graves. This is my last speech in the church of the nation, because it seems that András Schiffer and the idealists like myself have no place in today's politics, just as Gergely Pongrátz could not compromise with the so-called post-regime governments, he also left Parliament's courtroom demonstratively when they tried to negotiate with the organisations of 56. We need a paradigm shift in politics, i.e. radical change. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for letting me be a congressman. A better future. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-111	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes.
u2016-06-07-112	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank András Schiffer for this draft law, and I would also like to thank him for his very consistent discussion, as he mentioned, of this House initiative for the 12th time, and I think it is a shame for the majority not to take this initiative seriously and does not support the fact that the whole public in Hungary should be the only one on this issue. I mean, until now... [[What about when you were on the wheel?]] You know, it's a great experience for us that you're leaving this Parliament, Congressman, and they don't have to listen to you anymore, which is why there are still positive days here in Parliament in the ranks of the opposition. And I understand that it's a very difficult feeling for you that your own party members are killing themselves. [[Dóra Dúró: Owl says!]] But let's put this aside for a moment. I have argued for this since 2003 and that if you want, I would be happy to send you my comments on this matter, every time I have supported the entire public on this issue, even when, as State Secretary, my government represented someone else in this matter. I would just like to say that it is possible to put an end to this question, that if Parliament's parties are really on the side of the entire public, if the public is not complete, then indeed this moral debt has existed since the change of regime. Moreover, these cases can always be abused, and this abuse can only be guaranteed by ensuring full publicity. I therefore propose again, and I ask the governing majority to consider this proposal from András Schiffer and to support the general public. For our part, the current representatives of the MSZP faction support this bill, and we will vote yes in any way, regardless of what the government, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, thought about it earlier. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction no longer thinks the same thing as the ruling party at the time. So I thank Andras once again for this opportunity, the MSZP supports this law. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-113	I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2016-06-07-114	Dear House, We've witnessed political events in the past few minutes. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There will be some more of these!]] On the one hand, Jobbik's former Member of Parliament, who is even more extreme than Jobbik, welcomed the proposal, and then the former President of the State Party's successor welcomed this proposal as another. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Come on, I've said this 11 times!]] This symbiosis, as an extreme right-wing politician and as the former president of the successor of the state party found each other in András Schiffer's proposal, tells us everything about this proposal and tells us all about the political intentions behind this proposal. [[Dóra Dúró: What's in it?]] And it was a high school of hypocrisy, which Attila Mesterházy, in particular, has just performed, but everyone has to account for it with their own conscience. With regard to the bill itself, Mr House, it goes without saying that it is quite late to present a Lustration Act in Parliament 26 years after the change of regime. According to the majority position of the Parliament's Judicial Committee, the proposal is likely not to meet today's constitutional standards. This does not mean, by the way, that, immediately after the change of regime, there might not have been a chance that such a Lustration Act would have passed the law of the Constitutional Court or even the standard of the human rights court. But now, 26 years after the change of regime, after the successor of the former party of state became institutionalized in democracy, the fact that the former successor of the MSZMP was a governing party in the parliamentary elections, after which to say that the employees of the MSZMP should be excluded from certain functions, I think that this is impossible, because the MSZP, no matter who likes it, who doesn't like it, I do not like it so much, but it has actually become a participant in democracy. After that, it is said that because someone involved in the application of the predecessor of the MSZP or in some way related to it should not participate in democratic public life, András Schiffer, who is an excellent lawyer, himself knows that he could not defend this proposal in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-115	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-06-07-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is obviously uplifting to speak after our fellow Member Répássy in this matter, because he used words like conscience, and it is quite difficult to accept that word from the representatives of Fidesz. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Try it!]] Those who look down here without looking up, listen to András Schiffer's intro, everyone lay low, and then start talking about conscience and what would have passed right after the change of regime. You may be right, my fellow Member, because at the time these people were not in the ranks of Fidesz, but other than that, there were five or six more Fidesz people here, and now that you have accepted them, obviously the position is different and you see things differently. The looked down is what you think about the change of regime, how you feel about it. The way they vote is the indicator of how much they can accept it. I am convinced that the change of regime is not completed in Hungary. I am convinced that it will not be completed until these files, the names of these persons, are made fully public and we give every Hungarian citizen the right to know who is currently sitting in the government, who has taken over the business elite, what relationship was there between the business elite and political power. Then, if we can see clearly over the last 25 years what has happened to the country, where 90 percent of the public wealth has become, what has happened to it, and how it has been related to the old party system, then we can talk about how the end of the regime is going. That's what I'm missing right now. As in all other respects, Fidesz-KDNP's greatest crime is the lack of this ability to face it. It cannot face corruption, it cannot face what it represents in a free trade agreement, and it cannot face what it should do with everyday activities. [[16.20]] He cannot face the former communist past in his benches, who he has taken in, and therefore hinders Hungarian democracy from finally ending the last twenty-six years that have passed since the change of regime. I, who still has the conscience to think that Hungarian democracy may be important, should vote for this proposal from your ranks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-117	I'm going to ask the author, Andras Schiffer, if you'd like to comment. [[On Dr. András Schiffer's signal:]] You have the floor.
u2016-06-07-118	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Répássy, if you are doing a false upheaval here on the fact that an extremist politician - you mean the predecessor of Novak - or a political pro-state candidate - meant Attila Mesterházy - meant that I can only say to you that it is still more honored to be in line with Attila Mesterházy and the predecessor of Novak than to provide government support, such as the work of Gusztáv Zoltai and László Tasnádi. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! Applause from LMP and Jobbik.]] I want you to account for your conscience. Dear Parliament, My second proposal was made under the new Fundamental Law. From the second to the eleventh time, neither Répássy Róbert nor any other reference was made to constitutional problems. We need to look at the records, Mr Répássy. Not only did they not, but on a few occasions there were even brave ones among you who, by the way, voted in favour of the series of articles. Yes, thank you, on the one hand, for the words of my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, and thank you very much to my former colleague Novák for supporting this work on all twelve occasions; and I think - although he goes beyond the proposal - that there will be no Member of Parliament in the Hungarian Parliament after twenty-two years who, when left in a minority, will not be a thief of mandate. Dear Parliament, I would also like to say that they have forgotten to mention it now, but in this proposal, we have set a specific task to put a white book on the table within a year about who was involved in Hungary after the change of regime. You are constantly covering with the National Remembrance Committee, while you are not even willing to make this task mandatory for the Committee. This committee is all about smearing and sweeping under the carpet. By voting that the Hungarian Parliament should finally put the past in order again, they say yes to the moral debauchery policy. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-119	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Monday's meeting. László Varju and support representatives have proposed that the National Assembly decide on the Committee on acts which seriously undermine the psychological and physical development of young people due to the moral deficit in competitions and, in particular, in sport management, H/10516. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a five-minute time frame... [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Agnes Vadai. Excuse me.
u2016-06-07-120	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of April 2016, the shameful issue that shook not only the Hungarian media, Hungarian public life, Hungarian sports life, but the entire Hungarian society. It turned out that in 1961 László Kiss, the doyen of Hungarian swimmers, was a role model of a ignominious crime, gang rape, and had been reprimanded for other acts. Since then, new cases have been identified, where coach has been accused of physical, psychological, or even sexual abuse and violence against his underage children. The latest news is that the head of the László Papp Academy, who also committed violent crimes, was convicted of rape, who, by the way, was the federal captain of female boxers. A similar charge was brought about a kayak-kenu coach from Nagykanizsa who sent rather ambiguous messages to his underage students. But we also heard about physical abuse among skaters. And you can see that Hungarian competition sport, especially in replacement education, is not perfect. We waited, we waited for a long time, because we thought that the alliances or the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the president of which and countless sports leaders marched here today, would do something. In order to organize the Olympics in Budapest, they came here and took very important steps, but in order to reduce and investigate and make recommendations regarding physical, mental and sexual abuse of children - as far as competition is concerned - they were not too hasty. They didn't rush so fast, they didn't do anything. He didn't burn a damn thing. In addition, in the case of László Kiss, there was an outrageous attitude, where the victim error was the most important standard for the leaders of the Hungarian Swimming Association, who, while they thought the victim was dead, denied it, and when it was discovered that the victim was alive and bravely stood up and told what had happened to him, then the avalanche started, had its consequences, but not enough consequences; László Kiss was somewhat punished, but not completely. But this case is not about him, he is the least important in this case, it is more important to have children who may still be exposed to mental, physical and sexual harassment today, while preparing to become future Olympic, European or world champions. We, who have tabled this proposal for a resolution and want to establish this committee of inquiry, think that we must take action in this Hungarian policy, the Hungarian Parliament, that if others have not done so, we must examine whether there is psychological, physical and sexual abuse of children in competition sports in the present circumstances, and, if there is one, what obligation the National Assembly has from this, what steps must be taken, and what obligations should be imposed on associations or on the Hungarian Olympic Committee. Because, you know, my fellow Members, of course, the gold medal shines very nicely, and I also wish that many of our athletes would win the Rio Olympic gold medal, achieve any position, but no medal is worth the pain that children may suffer today, who look up to their coaches, look up to masseurs. I would like to ask the Parliament to be more open in this matter than in other matters. No matter who has tabled this proposal, we will be willing to make any amendments in the course of the hearing, just look at this matter, please. It's about next generation, kids, grandchildren, nephews, nieces. Think of it as happening to anyone in your immediate environment. That is why I ask you to support this series of articles, and then let us set up this committee of inquiry together so that children can go to sports halls in Hungary and swimming pools, and you can let your children go. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-121	There is now a time frame of 2-2 minutes for speakers per group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy first.
u2016-06-07-122	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur was represented by Mrs Vadai, and I said at the committee's meeting, again, that in the serious matter on which the committee of inquiry is intended to be set up, two serious mistakes can be made: one, if Parliament shows indifference in this matter, and the other, if it generalizes in this matter. And this committee initiative is making the latter mistake: the committee initiative is a serious generalization. The title of the proposal is that this committee should be set up because of the moral deficit in competition sport and should be created because of the moral deficit in sport management. I refuse, although I am not a member of any of them, I do not play a role in competition sport or in its leadership, that there is a moral deficit in Hungarian competition sport. [[16.30]] This proposal is on the ground of collective guilt, the starting point of this proposal is that some kind of collective crime would have been committed by the professionals of competition, the trainers of competition sport, the finest in competition sport. Dear House, We will never support a proposal that brands tens of thousands of athletes or even thousands of athletes on the grounds that some have actually committed serious crimes against children. I ask you very much not to go on this journey. Indeed, as Agnes Vadai says, anyone can talk to parents these days, wondering if they should take their children to a swimming pool after such a history, dare to send their children to practice. I ask that sinners be brought to justice - and, by the way, some of them have already stood before the court - and those who cannot be responsible for the crime committed by others should not suffer, and especially children should not suffer from political actions such as this committee initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-123	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-06-07-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Listening to Congressman Répássy, I do not know what is more terrible, his speech or whether he believes what he has said. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You're terrible!]] We're going to support you in any way. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that surveys have been carried out, and what is most terrible is that UNICEF has already made serious findings on this matter two years ago. If you don't believe that, Congressman, I'd like to give you some of this. Research samples showed that 73 percent of emotional abuse, 39 percent physical violence, 31 percent sexual harassment, and 15 percent initiation ceremony. Data also show a very close relationship between individual forms of abuse: the proportion of emotionally abused children was 96 percent among physical abusers and 95 percent among sexual abuse victims. The report also concluded that children are not engaged in sports for the sake of success and struggle, but rather because of the joy of movement, and are then exposed to serious dangers. The data listed above were produced on the basis of research samples. I don't know what hurts more if we stick our heads in the sand, or if we continue to do what spread not only in certain sports, but also in sport in general. We can say that we can rightly be proud of our successes, only ask the question of the price we pay for this. Do we have to pay such a heavy price to achieve success? I believe that you now have the right to set up this committee of inquiry. I ask the pro-government politicians to look into the mirror and support it for our children once and for all. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-125	I would ask my fellow Members to keep these two minutes as long as possible. As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró.
u2016-06-07-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Répássy's speech was extremely unworthy. If we are looking for excuses about why a case should be swept under the carpet and why not include this initiative in a series of subjects, your speech was very appropriate. But if we look at the questions that László Kiss raised in relation to Hungarian society, on the one hand, it raises the question whether László Kiss should have been a federal captain of the swimming team - I note in parentheses, after the scandal broke out, Jobbik was the only party to demand that he resign from the position of headmaster of the federal government - and then raises the issue of the creation of the withdrawal of state awards, and then raises the issue of a public database of sex offenders, as well as the number of pedophiles committed by my fellow Member Bangóné, which he was in connection with, and there is also a better initiative before the House, and raises what this resolution suggests that we should set up an investigation committee and the numbers that we have presented earlier, let us also look at the visibility of violence. You may be sorry, Mr Répássy, that you did not speak after me, because you could have splintered then, because I agree with much of what you just said to my fellow Member Bangóné. So it's a missed prank for you. In this sense, we support the proposal for a decision, because there are a number of social issues that should be addressed by politics and public life in the context of a case. Sweeping these cases under the carpet and trying to cover them up and not dealing with them because of various personal interactions will not provide a solution. The solution is to take the trouble and investigate the cases that have arisen. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-127	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-06-07-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I do not understand my fellow Member, Répássy, and he is a politician of his faction. I just don't understand. For once, we're not talking about what the Fidesz guys stole, what they took home, what they did wrong, what they did, it's not political. It is not about what Fidesz and KDNP have made a mistake, it is about - just what I just said - how a society reacts to the policy of facing, how it reacts to seeing problems in a segment and how they should be solved. It's not about looking for sinners, it's not about that, it's not about putting people on the edge, it's about seeing a negative process that's clearly revealed in the last period, how we face it and how we deal with it. There is nothing in this that would harm the interests of Fidesz, which would reduce Fidesz's support. For once, there could be an unpolitical activity. If the entire opposition agrees from all segments, then it would be necessary to consider whether it is the right one for everyone to be stupid, only I am the helicopter policy that Fidesz is pursuing. We all say that this is not about political accountability, it is not about embarrassing people, it is about experiencing something that Hungarian society must face. This has to be done because you, as a father, as a grandfather, have to think about whether if it were their own children, it would be worth any medal to pass through a psychological, physical or sexual abuse of their child or grandson. And if you say that you think it's worth it, then I'll say that I understand your position. But for the majority of people, it's more important to have children than to accept a system flaw that can be prevented somehow. This proposal is about preventing and facing these problems. The setting-up of a committee of inquiry can help without any political content. That is why I ask all my conscientious pro-government fellow Members to help make this possible by setting up a committee of inquiry. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-129	I'll ask Agnes Vadai if she wants to comment. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes.]] You have the floor in two minutes.
u2016-06-07-130	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was also quite upset and upset at the Justice Committee because of the pro-government position expressed there, but I must repeat this once again. If the title isn't right, let's change it, then let's think of something else, fellow Members. But the fact that this matter is simply swept away in plenary is a very bad way. The pro-government representatives are horribly wrong if they think this is the end of it. I told you at the committee meeting, and I'm telling you right now, the committee of inquiry would be fair, no one would have the majority - that's the point - we should seek consensus in order to make the children's future better, nicer, so that competition sports would be normal. And it's not just about the Kiss László case. Congressman, I have listed: kayak-kenu coach, boxing coach, other swimmers, and there is still a list of events that have come up in recent times as a result of the Kiss László case. From what you said, it is clear that the pro-government representatives will not support this. Then I'll find a way to move on with this case. If the majority of Parliament's pro-government is not a partner in this, then politics will begin there, fellow Members. Because there hasn't been any politics in this. So far we haven't talked about the Democratic Coalition, we haven't talked about MSZP, we haven't talked about LMP, and even Jobbik hasn't said that it's Jobbik. This will be the beginning of politics, my fellow Members, because it is clear that you, on the other hand, do not want to support this proposal for political reasons. But I don't know why. Who are you protecting in this case? Is there anyone else to protect? [[16.40]] Believe me, fellow Members, if that is all you are interested in, this will not be a solution. The solution is to find our obligations to amend the law, our obligation to make recommendations that will make Hungarian competition sport more normal. I ask you once again, especially the ladies of the government, to help us do this, to convince the men in their faction. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-131	The decision will take place on Monday's meeting. The motion of the MSZP Group now follows that the Parliament should decide on the amendment of Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour and the 2011 CLVI on the amendment of certain tax laws and related other laws in order to better recognise Sunday work. T/10285 on the amendment of Law T/10285. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Lukács, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2016-06-07-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, When the Fidesz-KDNP government had to withdraw the law on Sunday's closure because the Curia had passed the Socialists' referendum initiative, and the government was terrified of it, and withdrew this law, it also made the mistake of withdrawing another Sunday's wage allowance, which was regulated by another law. Of course, we weren't much helped by that, so that extra wage was basically for the six Sundays when the merchants could be open, and only for trade workers. But that brought up a problem that was a normal recognition of Sunday's work. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party has tabled a comprehensive amendment to the Labour Code, which, of course, includes a 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday, and of course, we must stress that it is not only in trade. We are talking about everyone who works or serves in Hungary today on Sunday. We think they're entitled to 100 percent on Sunday. In short, what else would be regulated by this law: the amendment proposal would create a balance between work and leisure time, so it would finally say that it is 8 hours working time and 40 hours a week. It makes derogations possible, but in very justified cases and on the basis of an agreement with the worker, this could be different. It would also regulate the working time frame. We know that this is when, for some time, the employer can dictate to the employee that it is possible to divide working time unevenly during a given period. That can be determined for up to a year now. We in this proposal set a shorter distance, and we consider this to be an exaggeration. We think that it is not possible to set a working time limit for more than six months. We have also included in this proposal, whether or not the shops are open, because once again, we are not talking about trade, but we are talking about Sunday work in general, that two Sundays a month can oblige the worker to work. Work may also be done on a Sunday or two, but beyond two Sundays work can only be done by written agreement between the worker and the employer. We have also included in the proposal, of course, who would be entitled to this 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday, and we have listed them, but in practical terms it is for everyone who works on Sundays. It includes, of course, a 100 percent replacement for Sunday's work. Of course, we would also like to avoid the problem of paying 100 percent of the salary on Sunday causing problems on the employer's side that workers are suffering. So, let's say, the payout causes such difficulties that jobs would be lost. Therefore, we have written this proposal in such a way that the employer would not have to pay a social contribution tax on the amount of the additional wage, so it would be free of charge. This would not burden the employer in such a way as to cause such problems. In fact, we have even considered that even if this allowance is paid, and despite the fact that the employer does not pay contributions after that, the law should ensure that this does not affect the employee's pension in a negative direction. So we would also regulate in this bill that, of course, the pension fund does not change. Ladies and Gentlemen, We think that if KDNP is now reading in the days that it has this kind of idea, then this is an opportunity to demonstrate that we are talking about an employee-friendly party, you are always on the side of employees, at least in words. This proposal fully settles the issue of Sunday's wage replacement, which is a double wage for everyone who works on Sunday, and this proposal pays double wages for everyone without too much burden on employers and gives employers the opportunity to do so without putting employees' pension funds at risk in the future. This is a comprehensive, thought-out bill, taking into account all the interests of workers. Those who vote for this stand for the workers who do not, obviously do not. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-133	It is now time for the speakers to be announced. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2016-06-07-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us on which Jobbik has always said that if it is good for the workers, it means extra wages, additional rights, the Jobbik Hungary Movement supports it. Thus the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles is supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement. We had a strong opinion on the closing of the store on Sunday. Back in 2010, the Jobbik Hungary Movement programme included the closing of the shop on Sunday, and when we saw what problems this would lead to in the country, we were the first ones to call on the government when they introduced the lockdown on Sunday, that it was a wrong decision, and this should be withdrawn. It took a year to get this through. Obviously, the referendum initiative has also made a very decisive contribution to the fact that it has succeeded in the end. It was clear that families couldn't solve it at the same time, with a workload as the 21st century. It's the 20th century so they can live a normal life next to Sunday's lockdown. So it was necessary. In this regard, however, Jobbik made clear his position that if a worker has to do work on Sunday, he must also be financially worth it. What the Labour Code provides for as a Sunday's wage supplement, the 50 percent wage bonus is certainly not enough, and it is our position that this should be increased in all kinds of ways. As a minimum solution, we also consider the 100 percent wage supplement acceptable, so we support this in this respect. We also support what is still in this bill, which is favourable for the worker, the definition of working time and the framework for working time. Here Fidesz constantly changed the labor code for the benefit of employers. That's a little backwards again, so it's eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-135	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2016-06-07-136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to override what my fellow Member said, but nearly a year and a half ago I said in Parliament's walls that they would be crying to bring back the issue of opening hours on Sunday. They did, even if they didn't cry and play it out so that people could vote on the issue. But not about this, but about the bill itself, let me have three thoughts. Now there's Sunday opening hours, now people can shop on Sundays, now they can decide whether it's worth keeping them open, and if so, they'll be open. Another piece of the story you promised me here two months ago in the House walls is missing. Remember, you will hear the words of Gergely Gulyás, ring back in your ears when you said it was natural, it is not a question that you will support the increase in wage allowances, the 100 percent wage supplement, the trade unions will negotiate everything, and within weeks they will return to it, and there will be law and any other guarantee in this regard. Now, as far as the truth is concerned, that's how much you can believe, because it's been two months since then, and we're at a point where nothing has happened. [[16.50]] That's one part of it. Even Antal Rogán confirmed the story. And the other part is that in this bill, if nothing else, we only pick two surfaces, one of which is that there must be a day of rest that falls on Sunday. It's okay if it's two or three. Without the worker, a situation should not be created that is less than two. And the second is that the issue of wage replacements cannot be questioned, the wage bonus must be at least one hundred percent. You've ruined enough of the workers' interests through the Labour Code, so you can quietly support and vote in favour of everything we've put forward. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr takes the notary seat.]]
u2016-06-07-137	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. For decisions to be taken at the meeting on Monday... [[For signal:]] Yes, it is! Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is in his place, so you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-138	My apologies, Mr. President, for being clumsy with the button here and for apologizing to the Parliament. I would like to say that the proposal is supported by the May Other Group of Politics. LMP has also suggested earlier, unfortunately the government has voted out that workers receive a 100% Sunday wage supplement regardless of the sector - this is in line with the content of the presentation - and may Other Politics has also suggested that Sunday work be voluntary and that at least one day of rest be mandatory for Sundays every month. In view of the burden-bearing capacity of businesses, we have also proposed reducing the tax and contribution burden on labour, as this is actually the way in which we can achieve substantial assistance in the sector. Finally, we proposed tightening up labour inspections to ensure compliance with this. All these proposals were not considered with previous series of amendments and amendments, unfortunately due to the votes of our pro-government fellow Members. That is why we consider it important that, now that we have the opportunity to talk again within Parliament's walls and discuss the importance of this problem, we ask our fellow government representatives to give us the opportunity to include this series of things and to talk about this important issue. This is also important because yesterday's news is that there is already a shortage of labour in trade so much that supermarket chains are using illegal equipment, they have employees signing statements that they will not use the freedoms they deserve in the summer. Departure due to low wages is the one that hits the leftovers most, as the shortage of labour, which occurs in parallel with the increase in public work resources, makes the whole country feel more and more affected, so in our opinion it is very, very important for the Parliament to address the issue of the proposal. According to the LMP, we can't go back to where we were before the store on Sunday. Wage increases are the solution to reducing the overload of commercial workers, shortage of numbers and emigration. To do so, we need to reduce the burden on work, and it is very important to create an opportunity to discuss all of this, so we ask our fellow government representatives to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-139	I'll ask Zoltán Luke if he wants to comment. You have the floor, two minutes.
u2016-06-07-140	Thank you very much. I waited for KDNP to speak, but it didn't come. In any case, the bill is clearly in line with their goals in the press, and it goes a little further, so let's hope we can count on their votes as well. I thank the representatives of opposition parties for their support. Obviously, this is about the fact that the legislative proposal is clearly on the side of the workers, and obviously my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, was absolutely right when he said how much, and perhaps Jobbik, he said how much of the workers' opportunities have been reduced in the labour code, and that would give them a little back to the workers. After all, we know that there is a great deal of trouble in the labour code in the case of allowances, since the afternoon allowance, the night allowance, and even a few weeks ago, the abolition of the stand-by Saturday allowance was also on the agenda, so there is a big problem in this case. That would give me a lot of things back. I would say to the representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, that what he said was also agreed with their proposal, especially the importance of tightening up inspections at work. We voted in favour of this when they asked, unfortunately the governing parties voted against this too. If there were some way that this proposal could be put before the House and voted for its inclusion in the series of articles, because it would be thought that workers would side with it, then perhaps we would not be against the amendments tabled on these issues, and we would be happy to vote on it together. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also ask the pro-government representatives to ignore what the central directive is, to consider the situation of people who work on Sundays, not just in trade, and to allow this law to come here. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-141	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. We now have a debate on the Commission's reports. The Commission's report on the amendment of the laws necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border follows a debate. Government referral T/10526. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I will ask the author, Secretary of State, Károly Kontra, whether he wishes to comment now or only at the end. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you, not now.]] All right, thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the designated Defense and Police Committee.
u2016-06-07-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee is the 32nd House Rule. T/10526 was held on 25 May 2016 as a designated committee pursuant to § (1) of the T/10526 Act. The detailed discussion of the bill amending the laws necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The committee did not support any of the amendments submitted, and the National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 25 May 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-07-143	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth.
u2016-06-07-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the general debate of the bill, or in the subsequent interpellation, I also made my concerns and critical comments on this bill, but I think that if my fellow Members and my fellow State Secretary, Mr Fideszes Ágh, who spoke yesterday, were also concerned about certain issues as to how the increased migration flows could be dealt with by the Ministry of the Interior. I think that we are not groundless in this regard. In any case, I, too, have made a note of the same answers from the Secretary of State to my interpellation, my fellow Member Agh, which are, in fact, professional, what measures have been taken: fence building, financial reinforcement, and then physical border, it is all right, to involve the defence in border control, I could tell you, I do not wish to list them. At the same time, if the Secretary of State looks into yesterday's Népszabadság, my figures in my interpellation have increased exponentially. We're not talking about 13,000 people anymore, we're talking about 17,000 people who have applied for asylum. But here, not only me or my fellow Member, the defender is concerned in this area, but also the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, who is trying to warn you that he is introducing strict checks on the highway across the border, thinking that the government might notice that everything is not right here with the border guards or with the refugee issue. [[17.00]] I am already criticizing the title of the bill in such a way that the title is that it can be widely used. I do not wish to explain, but I think that anyone who knows the profession knows that this cannot be achieved either in space or in time, so in full. Several of us have drawn attention to the fact that regulation cannot be understood for all border sections. This spatial thing is coming right up. Nor is it possible to know how any border intruder can get on the other side of the fence without committing a crime, since the mere crossing of the border lock is also a felony. The only way this bill will work is for the police to escort those who wander past the fence into the transit zone. Here we have another question, which is a practical question: whether the policeman or patrolman can walk from eight kilometers or by car this 300-400 people came in every day to escort the captured man back to the fence. Since the general debate, the number of questions to be answered has not decreased, but rather increased. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior did not give a reassuring answer at the meeting of the Defence Committee as to why the lane in which the intercepted border intruder was escorted into the transit zone was set at 8 kilometres. It remains a question of how these rules should be interpreted for border sections where there is no fence. The most surprising was the statement made at the annual ministerial hearing of Sándor Pintér on this subject at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee on 31 May. According to the Minister of the Interior, the question remains whether the reception centres should be increased later. If the draft law currently in front of Parliament is adopted, which complements the transit zone at our southern borders from 60 metres to 8 kilometres, then I think that we will not need these stations, because we can keep illegally arriving in our country within 8 kilometres. I don't think you need to tell me where the 13,000 people who came in the last five months are. I would also like to ask the representative of the Ministry of Interior, where is the condition in this bill that the transit zone may reach into the territory of the country at a depth of eight kilometres, because if I read it correctly, this bill is only about the fact that the police are escorting border intruders caught within a distance of eight kilometres from the border into the transit zone established according to the rules in force. Minister has spoken about something new, yet unsubmitted, BM plans, or it is indeed possible to interpret the extension of transit zones into this bill. I ask whether this plan has been consulted with the population of the border settlements. What I can tell you is that the faction is saying that it is time to finally make it clear exactly what they intend to do with this confusing, semi-finished bill, which is subject to a lot of criticism. My other very important point, which should also be taken into account by the developers, is the relationship between politics, law enforcement and legal issues. I think it's obvious that politics dictates the pace here. The Socialist Party Group, in agreement with these critical comments, will not support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-06-07-145	Thank you. Congressman Ikotity's signal is signaling, but I don't see it here. I'll ask if anyone else wants to talk to you. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2016-06-07-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In summary of the substance of the questions raised by Mr Imre Horváth and the essence of the answers given to it, I clearly and clearly state what the purpose of this bill is. The aim of this is to protect Hungary, to protect Hungary's borders, to protect the Schengen external border, to protect the security of the Hungarian people. That is the purpose of this bill. If we look back in time, Parliament adopted the legislative amendments on 4 and 5 September 2015 that created legal protection on the Hungarian-Serbian border and later on the Hungarian-Croatian border. Taking into account the experience of these, i.e. the experience of the past nearly nine months, the government and the Ministry of the Interior have made the presentation that these rules need to be improved. Both physical protection needs to be improved, the Hungarian-Serbian border needs to be physically strengthened, this is clear, as most people are coming through there and legal protection needs to be clarified. So the purpose of this, honourable Member, is to allow the law, using the possibility provided by law, to escort these illegal migrants captured within eight kilometres through the gate of the facility for the protection of the state borders; therefore, to escort them through the gate and then to go from there. That's the thing, Congressman. So this law is in the interests of Hungary, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it, because, if the proposal is adopted, it gives us the opportunity to apply widely the rules of the cross-border procedure and to ensure that no migrant is allowed to stay illegally in the country and that a swift decision is taken on all applicants. I therefore ask the Parliament with respect to support and accept the proposal with its vote. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-147	The debate is closed. Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XXIX of 2011 amending the Energy Act. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10095. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-07-148	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 June 2016 the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XXIX of 2011 amending the Energy Act. T/10095. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report summing up 24 yes, 2 no and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the opinion of the Economic Committee, on the one hand, and the own text of the TAB, on the other, which at one point amends the committee's proposal in order to resolve the contradiction. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Legislative Committee also supported points 5 and 7 of the Economic Commission's text, which specifically provide the possibility of calculating energy produced in a small power plant with a nominal capacity of more than or equal to 0,5 megawatts in a small power plant owned by the State and the municipal body. This solution can significantly improve both the budgetary situation of municipalities and the spread of renewable energy production. This contributes to achieving the renewable energy share of Hungary, i.e. 14.65 per cent, with an additional maximum renewable power of 4177 gigawatts. I would also ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[17.10]]
u2016-06-07-149	I will ask Mr. Zsolt Szabó, Secretary of State, if he wishes to answer now or if he will at the end. [[Dr. Zsolt Szabó says no.]] All right. The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, who presents the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development related to the debate. [[For signal:]] He's not here; I'm sorry, I wasn't listening. Well, that's not gonna happen. So now we're going to hear from the representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-06-07-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wouldn't take up much of my fellow Members' time either. I am an engineer, and I have repeatedly run into the definition of renewable energy sources in the summary amendment proposal, and I have been involved in it several times. So, I don't know, the conceptual definition has been redesigned a little, which now says renewable energy source: non- fossil and non-nuclear energy sources, from which solar, wind, atmospheric, geothermal, hydrothermal energy, hydropower, biomass energy, including biogas energy, can be produced. It is therefore clear that heat or electricity can be extracted from renewable energy sources. I think that now, without going into the technical details here, the concept needs to be further clarified, so this does not entirely correspond to the definition of renewable energy sources in everyday life, in everyday life, in everyday life. What we mean by renewable energy sources is not what is written here, in my opinion, in Hungarian. And I can't really figure this out anymore, although there's been a slight modification, but I think that's a rather gown phrase professionally. In the general debate, we have obviously already said our opinion on the proposal, and I do not wish to repeat it here, but I asked for the floor to draw attention to this small deficiency. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-151	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2016-06-07-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not repeat what has been said in the context of the general debate. Obviously, I just want to make a short confirmation. My fellow Member Vejkey also mentioned that the European Union's expected 13 percent renewable energy use is practically achieved, and a 14.65 percent target was set for the Orbán government until 2020. In 2013, this ratio was 9.8 per cent, i.e. renewables. In particular, you can obviously see what the share of renewable electricity looks like. Just for the sake of historical loyalty, let me give you four figures. In 2003, this was 0.8 per cent, so it was very low. In 2010 it is 7.3 percent and interesting, after 7.3 percent in 2012-13, how and how it looks in this respect: well, in 2012 it is 6.3 percent, in 2013 it is 6.7 percent. So if we place these figures one by one, taking into account the course of time, then obviously, either the so-called mandatory - quote - or the fulfilment of the expected and voluntary objectives, if we are to put it mildly, I must say that it must indeed be a strong incentive behind its back in order to achieve this. Only in terms of reaching 13 per cent, not 14.65 per cent. There is, therefore, some unrealisticity in the formulation or relations of this objective. On-going government measures, and to see this from the evolution of these renewable proportions, are in a sense unsettling, and on the other hand, they have also brought about a reduction in development, and these shares have not developed at random. Who will really be the winners? According to experts, solar energy, biogas and geothermal plants. In addition, it is possible to add that they are not particularly among those who would, say, bring huge employment expansions from the employment policy side, both in terms of electricity generation and in terms of growth, in fact, this question may arise or arise in a similar way. Perhaps a small, small question should be put at the end of thought, which is the way waste can be used, i.e. in terms of electricity production. In this, I think there are huge doubts, contradictions and many things about the operation, thinking, action in Hungary today, many others. These concerns, these points, are the ones that have yet to be said in line with the draft law. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-153	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-07-154	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. Some of the ideas that seem to have always come back before Parliament, Parliament, on this subject. Firstly, perhaps in relation to renewable energy, we have managed to exceed the 10 per cent renewable ratio over the past period. I would like to draw the attention of the dear MSZP fraction to one thing: thank God, the European Union allows the energy portfolio of all countries to be compiled in the way that it is most optimal for the country's management. Despite and in addition to this, GDP is constantly increasing, the country's economy is increasing and CO2 emissions are decreasing. These are all significant figures that strengthen the process of moving forward. Some renewable energy sources do not fully meet the needs of the country's economic interests. I am thinking, for example, that at night energy sources may not actually help the Hungarian economy develop. As far as the concept is concerned, it is true that my fellow Member Kepli put it well. We have tried to give the system a slightly wider circle to fit as many forms as possible, such as the brown premium category, which specifically serves the purpose of not converting to fossil energy after biomass and biogas plants have stopped. And we have tried to transpose the EU directives as widely as possible in this new renewable energy issue. The primary objective of the bill before this House is to comply with the relevant guidelines of the European Union and to build a system of support for the generation of electricity from renewable sources, flexibly and cost-effectively. In my opinion, this legislation is suitable for moving forward and achieving our 2020 targets. Dear Parliament, I thank my fellow Members for their active work and participation in the debate, in the legislative process. I would ask you to support and accept this aid scheme and to comply with the EU Guidelines on State aid for the environment and energy, and T/10095. It is also necessary to strengthen the legislative proposal No 1 with its vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-155	Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the legal consequences of passenger car services without authorisation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/10529. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. [[17.20]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-06-07-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 2 June 2016 the Legislative Committee negotiated the T/10529 on the consequences of passenger car transport services without authorisation. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report, summing up 24 yes and 2 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment includes a four-point proposal from the Economic Committee, which contains only technical and clarification provisions. One of the objectives of the bill is to ensure that, in the event of the failure of other preventive measures, it prevents Internet access to illegally operating taxi or taxi-type dispatch services. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-157	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy as rapporteur.
u2016-06-07-158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you was designed with a view to better sanctioning passenger passenger passenger passenger transport services without authorisation. The government's initiative does not aim to make modern, innovative applications impossible or banned, and we encourage their expansion among domestic taxi companies at all possible forums. The proposal serves to ensure a level playing field in the market for taxi services, in order to protect the life and property security of the regular Hungarian entrepreneurs paying taxes. The bill covers the amendment of four laws. The provisions amending the Passenger Transport Services Act allow Internet access to illegally operating taxi or taxi dispatch services to be prevented in the event of failure of other official measures. To this end, the Authority may order the blocking of internet content which provides direct access to or directly promote the provision of the illegal dispatch service by presenting the steps necessary for its use. The bill also penalises the carriage of passengers by illegally operating persons by the fact that the passenger car used for the unauthorised activity has to be withdrawn from the market for a period of six months for the first time, and for a period of not more than three years in the event of repeated infringements. The amendment of the road record point system law provides for 9 penalty points to be imposed on drivers carrying out passenger car services without authorisation in the road traffic record point system. In the event of a repeated offence, the driver may be subjected to another 9 penalty points, so if the number of registered points reaches or exceeds 18, it automatically leads to the withdrawal of the driver's driving licence for a period of six months. However, in parallel with the amendment of the Road Transport Act, which is also included in the bill, it does not impose a requirement for the driver to be retrained if his driving licence has been withdrawn solely for the purpose of establishing the points received for this infringement. The short-term amendment of the Water Transport Act required compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation. The proposed summary amendment aims at clarifying the legal proposal. To conclude the debate on the bill, I thank the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee for their work and for the active involvement of my fellow Members active in the general debate. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I ask you to support the summarised amendment proposal and the bill. The government does not consider the issue of taxicab regulation to be outdated by the legislative amendment, and we are also open to a comprehensive review of the new challenges of the sector's new regulations, so we look forward to the proposals of interest representatives, professional organisations and your organisations. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-159	Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2016-06-07-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We think that progress really cannot be stopped, but by punishing and punishing us in the first place and by not trying to create regulation, I think that we are hindering and hindering development. I don't think this is the right way. In particular, it would have been the task of the government and, by the way, the majority of the government to sit down and coordinate, and to establish a regulation on passenger transport that is acceptable to taxi drivers and Uber drivers, because at the moment we can say that the regulation that applies to taxiing and passenger transport today is not good for taxi drivers either. They also say in many places, in their trade union, that they do not want to ban Uber as a system and not make Uber drivers impossible, but they want a regulation that does not punish them or those who want to be involved in passenger transport. I've already told you on an immediate question that a lot of driver ladies have come to us, that this was an opportunity for them to complement their incomes, that they could go to the school to pick up the child, they've assigned their lives, and they're also outraged that they're being claimed to be tax fraud today when they pay taxes the same way as any entrepreneur. These ladies, I stress, ladies and mothers, do this service as a second job in addition to their work and work as Uber drivers, by the way, and, as I said, they pay taxes. These ladies passed the PÁV II exam, their cars were tested, their cars were insured for passengers, their cars were all the way to passenger transport, and by the way, they even registered the number used to carry passengers. Therefore, they do not understand why they are being sanctioned and punished at the moment, why they do not sit down with them and try to create an atypical way of working that would otherwise be able to carry out this passenger transport, as they are tax-paying citizens, paying taxes on their incomes. Now they feel that they have been set up in a situation that they think is unworthy. That is why our faction also thinks that solutions must be sought for this problem, and that in the first instance we must not be punished or sanctioned, we must not bring before us a bill that is primarily penalized, sanctioned, impossible and in the way of development, but that we must find a solution that is acceptable to both taxi drivers and Uber drivers, which does not overrule, does not overprivilege, and it does not cost too much to allow many people to join in the carriage of passengers. A system must be established to make this area competitive for taxi drivers and Uber drivers. I think that this is the future, so that these two things can go hand in hand, and the future is if we do not sanction you in the first place, but try to create a regulation that will let everyone who wants to work with honor. Therefore, I would ask you to consider withdrawing this proposal. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-161	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-06-07-162	Dear Parliament, If we have stayed in such a tight circle of friends, let me tell you how the change of regime took place in Tourkee, a smaller country. One of the important elements of this was that the Red Star cinema was renamed to the Korda Sándor movie theater, and from then on it was projected like this. Then the cinema began to slowly decline and shut down, because the video stores came, and everyone went to the video store more and more, and there wasn't much to go to the movies, so the time for the country cinemas was pretty much like this. [[17 .30]] Yeah, but it's been a few years again, and the video stores have started to go down, because the pirate downloads have started, and after most of the movies have been acquired, we didn't have to go to the video store. It's the end of this movie-watching process, and now there's a movie theater in county seats. It is important to think about whether it is possible to stop the kind of development that Uber represents, whether it is possible to stop it from doing so with any ban. Is total separation a wise policy from what otherwise goes its way? I think that, in the case of a normal government, it is necessary to try to create the possibilities of collecting taxes, how to achieve the same quality of service, how to create conditions that the kind of security that the Secretary of State mentioned to the travelling public should be ensured. But on the basis of such a principle, as the government treats it, car distribution could also be banned, because it is also harmful to taxi services, and taxi drivers could safely protest that the more cars people buy, the fewer people will use their services. And we should listen to the opinion of society in this matter, how fair it is to say that public bus lanes can be used without further ado by taxis, while others, other players in society, do not have the opportunity to do so. Overall, I understand the problem, and Possibly Other Politics is also trying to deal with it not as a political issue, but as a professional question of how to transform the system of passenger transport. At the same time, it is important to see that this type of online application, the many applications that can be used on smartphones, will not be stopped by the government with this ban, and it is not certain that this kind of separation and prohibition should be fully stated, because in many cases this could be a way to transform community transport at some level, as the services that reduce the, a car - a man's capital approach that we see all over the roads are already functioning as well. I would ask you to take a look at, go out, try to see statistical data, stand out on the Boulevard, on the Margaret Bridge, how many people are basically sitting in a car, how many people are using their own cars, and how it is exploited, how this contributes to the capital's transport, how it contributes to the formation of low atmospheric smogs, how it contributes to the amount of PM10 contamination through road transport, and how much basically it costs to Hungarian society together with everything! And we need to see if this is a good way to go, if we want to ban a service system that is trying to make it easier with forward-looking online systems. We are on the government's side in the matter of not supporting tax avoidance, not supporting it, even if they are doing the Uber service, even if they are doing the taxi service, because, by the way, it is clearly undeniable that the intention of tax avoidance does not depend on the nature of the service, but on the civil behaviour that the service provider is taking on this issue. We also support the government to look at the future of these services and to look at the future of transport, what opportunities there are for them, whether in the capital city or in its neighbourhood. But we cannot support the separation that, with practically a strict sanction, they start punishing a person who, for some reason, takes up this service, with such a strict background, or that, first, only for six months, and then for three years, the withdrawal of the car from the market will be carried out by the government. We are sure that a rule of law can be created either by introducing legislation that can be observed and which society wants to comply with, or by clearly following the way in which we are adapting legislation to practice. This solution is basically a bad solution, as it will force a lot of people into illegality for an existing practice, which will practically only result in an increase in the work of the accounting authority and can bring virtually inaccessible situations in many respects. We are asking the government to continue this debate, to look at the possibility of what is the solution, not to try to give in to blackmail, which is obviously on the government in this matter, but to find a common solution, which is absolutely not a political issue, but a future-oriented question of how we can achieve the 21st century. to face these challenges of the century. We are asking the government to withdraw this bill and to continue this debate, which we are looking forward to. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-163	Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-06-07-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't start with anything else, Mr. Secretary, except that in a world that is changing in its process, what can't be done is still not possible. In my view, it is necessary to adapt to the changes, to find ways, even in the legislative agenda and in the internal content of the legislation, which can become inclusive. The truth is that in my judgment, it is absolutely not good to hate something from the gut of a government, it is not good, because it is not a story here that ten, a hundred or a thousand people who perform this type of service become injured and offended, but it is about, to my knowledge, about 150,000 people who use this service, and the vast majority of these people have a positive view of the way and quality of the provision of the service. In this sense, they are offended by the fact that they are confronted with a negative attitude from the gut. There is not only a sanction, there is not only a way to take out cars that carry out these services, how and how to redistribute penalty points, thereby creating an impossible situation, how to involve driving licences. Obviously, and if certain basic principles are not met by the providers of this service, then, of course, this is understandable and clear, because we always need a regulated environment. But I think we should move more towards how something can work, how to operate something in a way that benefits people. Look, Minister of State, it would also be worthwhile to check the cabbie medium, the cabbie activity and the range of service providers, if appropriate, for example, with regard to official controls, only because of the interests of the far-reaching majority of taxi drivers, the far-reaching majority of taxi drivers performing decent activities, because when one sees or encounters after a day, say, a particular route in relation to the provision of taxi services and activities, let's say, on a given day, there are five different prices on the same route, and the difference is not in one to two hundred forints, but in several thousand forints, between three and eight thousand forints in a given section of the road, then this is also combined with the expiry of the activity of the taxis society. In this sense, therefore, there is room for regulation, control and much more. Look, Secretary of State, I think - and I say this not only for this activity, but in general - that the capacity or willingness to accept a new one is obviously a bit of a problem for the government, but it is not certain that it is appropriate to go against progress, and rather, I say that it is pointless. Rather, it should be possible to create a regulatory environment for which services can be provided after compliance. Now, no matter what we are talking about, from the provision of an electronic invoice to transparent or traceable transactions, but, as my fellow Member said earlier, a lot of things can be expressed in terms of compliance with the rules, pending the imposition and enforcement of the obligation to pay taxes. Once again, I would like to say that when a service is used by about 150,000 people, as far as I know, more than 90 percent of the people in Budapest are otherwise satisfied with these services when they... - [[Interjection.]] Yes, thank you - when there is a circle of trust, when there is no money or payment in cars, it happens on online surfaces, when everyone knows, the traveler and the traveler know who is the character of the story, because through online surfaces they can be short-circuited in terms of passenger and driver, when they can mutually appreciate each other in connection with their meeting and after, I think that a system can be built to benefit people. So, a word like a hundred, rejection of changes should be done more carefully. I urge the government that everything that is simple, transparent and profitable for the benefit of the people should go the way. Secretary of State, I ask the supporter to think together so that the government does not hate everything that can benefit the people. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[17.40]]
u2016-06-07-165	I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2016-06-07-166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to take it to heart, sum it up with my own government opinion. I'd like to say in advance that we've been talking to the taxi drivers from the gut to the Uber for a year. Last week, I sat with them for two hours, 16-18 taxi companies and Uber representatives, and we're on the same page. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is broadly in agreement with all modern solutions, we know that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council. We live in the century, the world changes, a beautiful new world, even if there is someone who doesn't know it's nice, but it's new, that's for sure. But it can't be that someone kicks the door in front of you again, referring to modernism, ignores the legal system of a European country, and is driven by capitalist heat... because Uber earns billions in this business, which is not made out of the nice words, but from the business profits that he earns somewhere; he earns on the Hungarian misguided bullfighter drivers, he earns it from the Hungarian tax system, and he earns it everywhere in the world where he does the same. We are not against modern methods, because for a year we have been trying to do everything we can to ensure that Hungarian taxi companies, which otherwise operate 10,5 thousand Hungarian taxi drivers, make a living of 10,5 thousand Hungarian families, we are trying to create a level playing field against a system that ignores domestic legislation, which refers exclusively to modernity. My fellow Members, there is nothing wrong with modernity and modernity. Let 100 flowers flourish, let the application system take over the Hungarian taxi companies, and let the foreign company operate here, we have no problem with it. For a year we have asked Uber's representatives in Hungary to ask the company in Amsterdam for permission for dispatch. We haven't banned anything yet. A year ago, we are asking you to ask for the permission that legal dispatch services in Hungary have asked for and received. My fellow Members, the staff of their ears was not moved, they did not ask for anything, but they are making a profit on the Hungarian market and endangering the livelihood of 10,5 thousand Hungarian taxi drivers; 10,5 thousand Hungarian taxi drivers who, I must say, are not angels, have their own flaws. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, that I myself see the problem of the regulation of four years ago that, at the request of the taxi drivers in Budapest - 5.5 thousand people - a fixed price was introduced in the Budapest market. So there shouldn't be any difference. I say that Hungarian taxi drivers are not angels either, and when we aim to improve the effectiveness of controls, we are thinking not only about Uber and not only about smartphone application contacts, but also about asking the Hungarian taxi drivers to follow the rules. I repeat, we do not want to ban anyone. This is a sanction that we want to force you to apply for the dispatch licence to operate in accordance with Hungarian rules. During my expo, in my last sentences, I mentioned that the government was open to reviewing this entire system. But to allow pressure, with a shield of modernity in front of you, the operation of a system that ignores Hungarian rules - to say - with a baby face and spread out of our hands, we listen helplessly and watch, I think that you, who are sitting in the legislative position through the trust of Hungarian voters and thus the confidence of Hungarian taxi drivers, do not mean that either. I don't want to go on long with what I have to say. [[Turning towards Anita Heringes:]] I would like to say to Mrs President that there should be no misunderstanding if Hungarian women and girls are looking for a side occupation, and they intend to enforce it in this, but they must comply with the rules. You have listed what has already been done, if they do so, they will be okay with this during the inspections. Otherwise, we do not want to ban them, or this ban does not apply primarily to them, but to the dispatch service, who is moving them, and, as you say, is misleading them. Uber is telling them to ask for a passenger permit. The passenger permit is not a taxi permit, the passenger licence was found in Hungarian legislation that if there is a large event or a hotel that employs a few passengers for the carriage of its own guests, or a major event involving occasional traffic, such as a Island, which at that time wants to use minibuses to carry large traffic, this is what passenger transport is all about. It's no coincidence that they have the distinguishing sign that NT, which very witty means that it's not a taxi. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So these aren't taxi activities. On this basis, in agreement with your good intentions, I ask you to support this bill for our common interests. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-167	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy laws and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10538. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-07-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 May 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10538 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 26 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. In the background, there is a 14-point amendment by the Economic Committee, which contains only spelling clarifications. In view of the fact that no substantive amendments have been made, there is no technical debate in the context of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal is to amend the sectoral rules in line with the experience gained over the past period as a result of the amendment of five sectoral laws in total. In the general debate, you must have been familiar with the minor amendments needed to remedy the obstacles to the application of the law. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-169	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] He doesn't want to. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Thus, the representatives would be asked to make comments if someone applied for them. Yeah, there's an applicant. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2016-06-07-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Reading the amendment of the law, I had a thought or two. The nuclear law, which includes a modification of the supervisory fee for the temporary storage of radioactive waste facilities and spent fuel in the nuclear power plant, is amended. As I have read all along, this is a reduction in the supervisory fee on the payer's part, and it is necessary to put two thoughts in mind that, of course, you look at the payer's side and look at it from the supervisory body's side. We sat here just six months ago and amended the nuclear law, just so that the salaries of the people working in the National Atomic Energy Agency could increase, so that they could hire a lot more professionals, and the experts would stay at the Atomic Energy Agency, which in many ways I think is important for everyone to have professionally prepared people sitting there. [[17.50]] In the process of preparing such a large investment, professionals who have been there for a long time, respected professionals and, by the way, young people who get into this office should stay there. It is this office that maintains itself with budget money and the supervisory fee is included in part. The question is whether, if we reduce the supervisory fee, we will not put at risk again what they did in the previous amendment, that this office will not be able to maintain itself, that young people will not feel that they are valued here, that they do not feel why they should stay with this office, and that they will therefore leak away. Therefore, I will take this step on a written question, and I will ask you how much fluctuations are now in the National Atomic Energy Office. By raising wages, whether or not young people stay there, whether the professionals stay there, because I think there is no more important issue now than such an investment to have people sitting there to supervise this investment, licensing and all points in whom we can trust at any time with our eyes closed. And these people should stay in this position for a long time, work their way to retirement in this area, because we really need people who have this profession in their little finger. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-171	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-06-07-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It has just been said by our fellow Member Vas Imre that the 14-point amendment proposal contains only corrections to spelling, which is not entirely the case, since point 4 states that Article 11. Paragraph 2 is supplemented by a new paragraph, which reads and regulates the conditions under which the user may join the transmission network and includes the technical details thereof. So this is certainly a new provision compared to what has been done, and I would therefore like the Minister of State to give reasons for this inclusion in the bill. Does this mean any new obstacles to the user when connecting to the transmission network or how this provision changes compared to the original law? I can also say what I do not want to repeat here, in the debate on the summary amendment proposal, in the general debate on what I have already talked about, so I would like to focus mainly on the summary amendment proposal and, in this regard, on the position of the Secretary of State on what I have just said, and we will obviously express our opinion on the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-173	I do not see any further candidates to speak, so the debate is closed, and I will give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions.
u2016-06-07-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, Indeed, following the general discussion of the bill amending certain laws on energy, the Legislative Committee presented a comprehensive amendment, which basically contains rules on the technical and linguistic positioning of legislation and ensures the coherence of legislation. At the request of Congressman Lajos Kepli, I say that this new provision is about giving an additional opportunity to connect to the transmission network, because according to the regulations in force, the transmission network was only possible at a voltage level of 132 kilos, and we have now included 132 kilos of voltage, with the restriction that this is possible under certain circumstances, namely if the purpose of the use is to manage the records relating to national data assets, so a new tool and we hope to provide an effective tool and cheaper tool for national data management purposes. I have always been very attentive to the comments of Mrs Anita Heringes, and I am trying to answer her questions with sufficient seriousness and respect. My great attention always comes from the expectation that he will say that, as a representative of Paks interest, as a guarantee of the work of the people in the Paks area and as a guarantee of the future of Paks city and its surroundings, he will once say in the House that I support Paks II. the operation of a nuclear power plant [[Anita Heringes: Secretary of State, you don't want to understand what I just said.]] I fully agree that capacity maintenance, insurance and the effective execution of the investment represent not only the interests of the country but also the interests of the Paksians, and he is fully in agreement with this investment. To your question on the supervisory fee, I would like to say that it has also been said in the general debate that this supervisory fee makes the remuneration system more proportionate, so it adjusts the level of the supervisory fee for the work carried out, since so far, when calculating the level of the supervisory fee, account has also been taken of the low and medium-efficiency waste that has already been deposited, treated and permanently placed, and therefore, in this respect, the level and the proportion of the supervisory fee is not fair and unfair. By the way, in agreement with the head of the National Atomic Energy Office, they agreed with this calculation method. I have to add that the government has always taken care of the right professional capacity in terms of professional service in order to create material and material conditions for the quality of professional work. As the Member said, in due time we increased the budget support for the Atomic Energy Office, and I very much hope that the continuous development of staff and the continuous development of professional knowledge will make it suitable at all times, in all cases there will be nothing to prevent the Atomic Energy Office from operating properly, especially the material issues, but at any time the Government will be open to taking appropriate steps. In addition, I thank the parliamentary parties for their statements of support, because during the general debate, opposition groups also basically supported the bill, and I therefore ask this House to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-175	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. The next step is the XXVI of 2006 on gas security stockpiling. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10724. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2016-06-07-176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 2 June 2016, the members held a debate on T/10724. No XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas a bill amending the law. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It submitted a report summing up the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment fully includes the Economic Committee's amendment proposal, which has made two amendments. On the one hand, the 80-percent limit is removed from the bill, so a member's contribution paid for the quantity of natural gas which has been proven not to be imported, used or sold for energy purposes but for chemical or chemical uses. [[18.00]] On the other hand, the date of entry into force of the proposal, i.e. the bill would enter into force on 1 September 2016 instead of 1 January 2017. Ladies and Gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill in order to bring Hungary closer to its goal of increasing the competitiveness of chemical companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-177	I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer now. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] The designated Economic Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so once again, there will be speeches by representatives when a button is pressed, but there is no sign - but still. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2016-06-07-178	Mr. President, I was struggling with the buttons, but I finally managed to solve the problem. As we have said in the general debate, we agree with the original aim of the bill so that the member contribution paid for the quantity of natural gas used for chemical purposes can be recovered. An additional discount is that not more than 80 per cent, but can be recovered after the total quantity. There is also no amendment in the summarised amendment proposal that would be contrary to the original purpose of the law, so if we supported its original objective, we can clearly support the higher level of the reclaimable part of the member contribution. I believe that instead of 1 January 2017, the entry into force of 1 September 2016 could have taken place in line with the heating season, as there is an increased use of natural gas in that period. That must have been the reason, but Mr. Secretary of State will certainly tell you that in his closet. What is important, and in the legislative proposals on gas supply, we always say that Jobbik supported the buy-back of strategic storage facilities into public property, and that their proper use is always mentioned here in Parliament if we consider that the level of upload is below the level for which these reservoirs are created or available. But these problems always become current before the start of the heating season. This bill concerns the competitiveness or competitiveness of the chemical industry. I also said in the general debate that it would be very good if the extra profit left to chemical companies were spent on job creation, creating new jobs and not being extra profited out of the country. This is obviously less typical for Hungarian-owned chemical companies than for their multinational counterparts. This is not the subject of this bill, but it must be said every time, because the chemical industry that has lived on the most beautiful days before the regime change has provided tens of thousands of jobs in Hungary in the previous decades. A good part of this has already ceased, deteriorated or replaced by multinational companies, chemical representatives, who also provide a large number of jobs in Hungary, but the structure of the entire chemical industry is already changing, and as demands change, as technology changes, new products appear on the market. We also need to adapt the legislation to maintain proper competitiveness, which is why we said it in the general debate and now I say again that we will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-179	If there are no more candidates, the debate will be closed and I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-06-07-180	Mr President, Dear House, I can say to Mr Kepli's question that we have had this option since 1992-93 in the Oil Supply Act. The rules on natural gas stocks did not provide for this. I think that the sooner we provide this opportunity, the better we will do for the Hungarian chemical industry, even because this discount, this option is not an extra profit to the chemical industry, but to ensure its competitiveness. The chemical industry is highly competitive, not only in the Hungarian and European markets, but also in the Middle East, India and the chemical companies operating in these parts are serious competitors of the European chemical industry, whether the chemical industry in Hungary or in other parts of Europe. And without going into the details, I must add that the structure and productivity of the Hungarian chemical industry are the most exposed to competition challenges in this region, so I think it was the right decision to include this proposal here. It is also very right that during the last few days during the debate the parliamentary factions unanimously supported the bill. Thank you for your support, and I ask that you give your vote to ensure the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-181	Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. By representatives of Jenő Manninger and Sándor Hadházy T/10735. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'm going to ask if Jenő Manninger would like to comment. [[Jenő Manninger: No.]] The congressman doesn't want to comment. I will ask if the Secretary of State wishes to comment. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] Secretary of State says no. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now it would be the Members' speeches, but there are not very many, so we will move on and the debate that does not exist will be closed. Again, I would like to ask Congressman Jenő Manninger if he would like to comment. [[Jenő Manninger: No.]] It says no. So we're done with the item on the agenda. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on legislative harmonisation amendments to certain employment laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/10720. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, in which I shall give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-07-182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10720 on 2 June 2016. A bill amending certain employment laws for harmonisation purposes, submitted by 22 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions, was submitted by the Committee with an amendment and a summary report without voting against. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Legislative Committee, which contains codification provisions on the one hand and a legislative amendment on the other. Allow me to make a bit of a professional comment on the basis of the committee meeting. I would like to draw attention to a conceptual amendment that increased exposure is not a disease yet, so it is professionally important not to have to wait for both ears to have a minimum of 30 decibels of hearing loss, but to have it investigated before that why it developed and to avoid further hearing impairment by taking preventive measures. [[18.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the purpose of the Posting of Workers Directives is to protect workers in the posting situation and to ensure fair conditions of competition for economic operators in the single internal market. I would ask you to vote to support the adoption of the bill in order to ensure uniform and easier application of the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-183	I'll ask Andras Tállai if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. The designated Enterprise Development Committee did not present a rapporteur, so now the representatives' contributions will follow. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr.
u2016-06-07-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to point out in advance that there are positive uppercuts in the draft law, which we consider to be good and to be supported; in particular, as an example, that resources within the National Employment Fund, which have not been used in the reference year, can be effectively carried over and used in the following year. Either the type of amendments that strengthen the worker's safety at work; whether it is necessary or necessary to provide protective equipment, to extend the education system affecting its use, and much more, or if the staff of the occupational safety representative are now not required for the staff covered by the Code of Work for more than 50 persons, but if there are more than 20 persons, then that is already the case. These are positive things, so I don't need to talk any more about them, they're things that are eligible. In addition, or together with all of this, there are ups and downs which, to say the least, are not very elegant, let's say, about the issue of the system of job-seeker records. This is what we have seen in the last six years, how and how they play this story statistically. Anyway, I don't want to go into the details from the public register to the foreign workers or the issue of student workers. Here, within the framework of the draft law, for example, the issue of the suspension status of those engaged in training activities can be described here. These represent the way statistical magic works are performed. But in the same way, yesterday, today, he has raised his mind, let us say, to qualify as fit or unfit for work, whether from mental, social or health considerations, and then, obviously, to establish the removal from the records. They are not really a solution to the problem, but again they make the statistical background beautiful and beautiful. But we could also talk about the part of the story that concerns OSH, the issue of OSH from a different aspect, as I said earlier, in terms of positive changes, in terms of protective equipment, now in terms of less favourable changes. The accumulated experience will be made public in a given year after such a 9-month slide time interval has passed. Well, that's not very encouraging, because confrontation is good when it happens as soon as possible, because then you can find good and fast solutions. Or that, in a given workplace where employment is carried out by more than one employer, the main contractor's qualification is virtually out of the system, so that, in terms of taking responsibility, situations can develop which are not for the benefit, but for the damage, of the people who work there. And I think that any law of this type, whether from a source, through the National Employment Fund, can help working people's everyday lives, whether through the taking of employment protection or labour measures, can create a situation for people to work more safely, all of them should make changes that are at the centre of man's epicenter. It should be focused on all aspects and in all respects, and should even lead with regard to the publication of experiences as soon as possible. After all, it is possible, in a preventative way, to anticipate future or emerging events that we wish to avoid in the next period. And yet another thought, once again returning to the former agenda, is that it is not always the fine, it is not always a good thing to think about how and how to sanction you. The penalty of HUF 500,000 is not to create or avoid safe work, or not to provide access to the accident register, and many other other occupational disease registration systems are inadequate, available or hindered in the performance of their duties. I understand that these are all important things, and I agree with him that keeping these issues in mind is first and foremost, in the interest of the people. But I would like to say once again that it is not always the continuing increase in fines or fines that leads to different, better options for displacement. In this respect, I would therefore like to conclude by saying that it is appropriate, reasonable, to support any change in the interests of the people, but, on the other hand, this part of the story is mixed within the framework of this draft law, as well as that which is not in the interests of the workers. Therefore, it is difficult to put a uniform approach, a unanimous support, in line with the bill. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-185	If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tállai if he'd like to comment. It says yes, you have the floor.
u2016-06-07-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, thank you very much for Nándor Gúr's speech, although I am surprised that he did not speak out the 9 minutes in full, more than 2 minutes left in his frame. [[Nándor Gúr: I only said the important things.]] At the same time, he did not wish to submit an amendment to the bill, but also said at the beginning of his speech that there were positive elements of this bill. This, translated into Hungarian, means that there is nothing wrong with this law, there is no problem. It cannot, however, be because compliance with EU directives is the aim of the bill. Basically, it is necessary for professional reasons that five laws are amended in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may say once again that there is no amendment, the Legislative Committee has also discussed the bill only for codification purposes, and I do not want to repeat its content. On the one hand, everyone could get to know him in the general debate, and on the other hand, if the majority of the Parliament accepts him on 13 June, the whole country will be able to get to know him again after his publication in the Hungarian Gazette. Otherwise, in all respects, the situation of employers and workers is facilitated by this bill. I'm asking Parliament to support you. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-187	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T-10729. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. [[18.20]] In the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee would have been put on the table, but Mr László Kucsák is not here, so that is not the case, and the rapporteur of the committee cannot be here. I will ask the author whether or not he wishes to comment. [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] He doesn't want me right now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2016-06-07-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The MSZP fraction disagrees and finds this type of amendment of the Public Education Act and the entire Public Education Act unacceptable. We disagree with the nationalisation system introduced and forced by Fidesz. We've made a lot of noises about this. In our opinion, this will lead to disaster in the operation of Hungarian public education. It has to be seen that in recent years, whether we look back on the last 25 years or whether we see the activities of your second and third governments in the field of education, they have simply not improved the system, rather than corrected the mistakes of the last 20 years, but unfortunately created a worse one. Education must always be adapted to the world's change. A system of education, state control, must also be built accordingly. He believes that the MSZP and a large part of our amendments were aimed at trying to find a way to clarify and eliminate even the mistakes you have made. We believe that not the municipal system and not the mixed system have failed over the past period, but that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre and the forced centralisation, nationalisation, which has only accumulated debt, which, after a while, has become the main cause of the problem and which does not see the problems that it should solve every day. In our opinion, if you have come to the conclusion that we have seen in recent years about the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre that there is a need for total nationalisation in education, you will add to the problems. They cause themselves a lot of trouble that they won't be able to handle, but the worst part is that at the end of the day, children, teachers and the entire education system will suffer. There is another part of this salad law which is aimed at vocational training. Here, too, we see very big problems, because the transformation that they have started is practically a renaming wave, but it will not solve the problems in vocational training, it will not replace the missing professions, and in fact the demand that the labour market constantly raises for quality, high knowledge, well-trained and skilled skilled skilled workers to be issued by the school will not be met. You refer to dual training as such, constantly pointing to Germany and referring to it, but always forget to add that German children, by the time they reach the end of primary school, will receive 2,000 hours more in primary school than Hungarian children, and will develop their abilities in a much larger proportion in addition to lexical knowledge. In my opinion, it would be appropriate to define 50-50 percent or to get Hungarian education to 50 percent lexical knowledge and, in addition, a very strong capacity development, the ability to learn, the ability of differentiated thinking, the culture of debate and democratic culture of Hungarians, all of this should be learned in school. What doesn't happen here in elementary school, won't be brought in by the vocational school system. We consider this type of twitching and remodeling of the vocational school system to be very dangerous because it is not children from middle-class civil families who go to vocational schools, as one of your fellow Members said earlier, but children from poorer families. I see a very big difference between the two camps, i.e. the opposition, especially the MSZP and Fidesz, that you do not consider skilled workers to be citizens. Accordingly, the whole of their legislation is also characterised by exclusional behaviour. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] Finally, I would like to mention one thing: a part of our amendments, which we have submitted to this salad law, wants to maintain at least the rights of those who are in development education. A significant part of our amendments were aimed at boosting the participation of children aged five and over in development education. It doesn't start at school to develop a sniper kid, it starts in the early childhood development system. You should pay more attention to this. We cannot support this package in this form. Thank you so much for listening. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-06-07-189	I do not see any further comments, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-07-190	Thank you very much. The debate was very brief, so I would like to respond briefly to the few points that have partly raised specific, partly general issues. The reason for the public administration of schools in municipal treatment, I think, has been visible recently. I wouldn't want to say again why it was necessary, why it was necessary. What we are talking about here is that if the state takes responsibility for the school, it must have the right equipment to do so. The state wants to take responsibility for the school, and it will. I think the task here, if Parliament accepts this amendment, is that this process should take place in such a way as to ensure that the school works for the child and not possibly confronting the state and the municipality. I think it's in our mutual interest that this thing works out well. We will do everything we can to ensure that this happens. Of course, in the fact that education has to adapt to change in the world, we agree, and we have always agreed. This justifies the fact that from September 2018 we would like to introduce a revised core curriculum, which will be ready by the end of 2017. The content development committee of the Public Education Round Table is working on this. The principles of this are exactly what has been said here: the transformation of the school system to such a degree, a type that really enables our children to accept that they can learn certain things, and they can learn and apply this kind of knowledge many times in their lives. Of course, this is a longer process, but in order to reduce the amount of lexical knowledge mentioned by the Member, we have proposed that, from September this year onwards, based on the current national basic curriculum, but with a significantly smaller amount of teaching material. The way to do this is to determine the levels to be achieved at the end of the 4th and 8th years, and to work out a curriculum that is a proposal for schools, and the school can decide for itself how to achieve these levels. There is no misinterpretation here that the demand for a higher degree of freedom for the school, the teacher, is being met, so that the children can reach a certain level of freedom, of course. That this is 50 or 60 percent now, it is difficult to say, because the structure varies significantly from subject to subject, the lexical curriculum is reduced, the content of the curriculum to be learned is reduced, and the part that is entrusted to the school is, by the way, to use this time. I say that the criticisms of the vocational training system are not necessarily real, because if we look at what companies require and what the vocational training system offers with or without dual training, the vocational education school is a type of institution that does not exclude those who sign up to higher education, but at the same time gives us a profession, unlike today's secondary vocational school. The reason for this is that those who are interested in a particular profession and do not want to study in a high school, but want to deepen in a specific area, should have the opportunity, in part, to pass a higher level of education in the appropriate curriculum of the subjects of public knowledge and, in part, in the subjects of the profession - be it a course of science or the subject itself - so they can go to university. [[18.30]] Then, if, by the way, you think, at any time in your life, that you want to work in a particular profession, you should be able to do so. I believe that this would not only disqualify candidates from this type of institution, but also give the child and the parent the certainty that they will have access to a profession, but also to a university. If you look at the numbers by the way, it's exactly the same ratio as in Germany. About 30 percent of the children apply to high school, 40-45 percent to vocational school or vocational school, and the remaining 20-25 percent to vocational school or vocational school. I think the proportions here are very similar. I believe that dual training is an extremely progressive element of this concept, both in higher education and in public education. I believe that the length of the school year is the subject of another debate. As I said, the National Basics Plan will be revised, which will also have such elements, so that the academic year is longer than under appropriate conditions. So that's what I wanted to say briefly, and I think that's what our bill provides, so I'm asking the Parliament to accept this. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-191	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on foreign representations and permanent external service and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/9784. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-07-192	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9784 on foreign representations and permanent foreign service on 3 June 2016. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 yes and 2 sexes. The draft amending proposal contains the amendments proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the one hand and the TAB's own proposal on the other. The most important part of the TAB's motion is the clarification of the status of permanent representation to the European Union, commonly known as the SAC. The CSA is the central foreign representation body for the exercise of rights and fulfilment of obligations arising from Hungary's membership of the European Union, which, according to point 24 of the summarised amendment proposal, is covered by a separate chapter of the bill. Given the importance of effective enforcement of Hungarian interests in the European Union, this aspect should also appear in the preamble to the bill. The proposal clearly states that the EC is managed, including functionally, by the Minister responsible for coordinating EU affairs. That chapter therefore sets out the status of the CSA, its core tasks, issues related to the financing of its operation and settles the governance of the CSA as set out above. The bill is 11. Paragraph 1 of the Act refers only to the Minister responsible for foreign policy in the diplomatic training of professional diplomats. Cultural advisors leading foreign Hungarian cultural institutions and cultural services, other permanent external service providers in the institutions, as well as the specialist minister in the preparation of cultural and educational diplomats, are required to be involved in the preparation of professional training. This is also settled by the amending proposal, and it also clarifies the rules on business activities carried out by foreign representations, as well as the provisions on grants and donations. In view of what has been said, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-193	I will ask Minister of State Magyar Levente if he would like to comment now or at the end. [[No signal.]] Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, rapporteur of the designated Foreign Affairs Committee.
u2016-06-07-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has always been important for the Hungarian Government to protect and represent our country's national interests abroad. At the same time, the government's external affairs tasks have recently been extended. In addition to the classical diplomacy, cultural and external tasks were transferred to the wallet along with the toolkit. All this has made it necessary to build a stable but flexible external service system. One of the tools for this is the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act. By means of the legislative article on the norm before us, on the one hand, we are standardising the special rules on external service, on the other hand, and on the other hand, we also symbolically and materialally recognise the work and role of those working on foreign relations and the external economy. The draft constitutes a framework law under the Law on Public Service Officers, thereby strengthening the guarantee nature of the regulation, establishing fundamental rights and obligations. The draft shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article XXI. For centuries of life, which people working at foreign representations meet every day, this also increases predictability and predictability. Ladies and gentlemen, The restructuring of the remuneration system is a fundamental change, creating a more transparent system, increasing the efficiency of control, control and reducing bureaucracy at foreign representations. I think that the great advantage of the draft is that it finally brings clean water to the glass and abolishes the perplexity and confusion of the socialist system that the diplomat receives two salaries while he is not actually doing actual work in the country. It is proposed that the basic amounts needed to calculate each benefit will be set out in the current budget law, thus making the system transparent, predictable and simpler. In addition, the draft also gives the relocated a new degree of leeway, namely that it is up to itself to decide on the use of tax-free and unpaid cost frameworks. In my opinion, it also increases the competitiveness of Hungarian diplomacy that the new law seeks to attract, say, other foreign representations in addition to Paris, London or Berlin, with the help of the percentage salary replacement depending on the station. I consider this particularly important for the neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that by incorporating the amendments, the law will ensure comprehensive regulation. In my opinion, flexibility is ensured by the amendment to set the duration of permanent external service as a rule for four years. It is also important that the foreign representation may carry out business activities with the agreement of the host country. This could increase communication and develop links between the two countries, particularly in the fields of culture, education and language teaching. I would also like to draw attention to the very important amendment that ties the Ministry's support and donations to the prior authorisation of the head of the competent office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thus contributing to coordination and avoiding costly and unnecessary duplication. In addition, it should be pointed out that the draft in its new form gives the Minister the opportunity, in particular justified cases, to waive the condition of permanent residence in Hungary and not being a national of the host State.
u2016-06-07-195	My apologies. You had three minutes.
u2016-06-07-196	I apologize, one last sentence. In conclusion, the bill before us provides an appropriate framework for Hungary's delegates to serve Hungary's economic, diplomatic interests in a stable, predictable, yet flexible and equitable framework, representing our country in the world. Thank you very much for your attention, and I'm sorry for the delay. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[18.40]]
u2016-06-07-197	I'll give the floor to Márta Demeter, and due to fair conditions, you may speak a little more, and I'll allow it under my presidential authority.
u2016-06-07-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As Vice-President has said before me, he said that a more transparent system will be created with this foreign representation law, and that it will also reduce bureaucracy. Frankly, that is not my view of the law, and as much as we have looked at this law, and we have looked at it many times - we have had the opportunity, because this law has been on the agenda many times, despite the fact that it has been taken off many times - we have not found where these things would actually happen, which Mr Vice-President mentioned. The fact that this law doesn't do any harm, but it's also true that it doesn't add much to foreign representation, career, predictability. I do not doubt that there could have been such a positive legislative intention that a law on the service of foreign representations might have been established, but it certainly is not. So I think that if there is such a purpose, then a law must be implemented that specifically regulates the conditions of the External Action Service. It was an amazing rush to create this law. In fact, we may have the impression that a law was created merely by the appearance of hard work, and that many questions were answered in such a way that the very essence of this law was to be. So I think that if we are talking about foreign policy, we are talking about foreign affairs, we are talking about foreign affairs, we are talking about foreign affairs, we are talking about this attitude. We saw a rush. It was amazing for us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to see that no representative of the Government was involved in the debate on the amendments to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We would have liked to have heard their views on the proposals we have submitted. So I think that this process of procedure, which marked this law, is unfair to those who serve the foreign affairs service. We see that a very comprehensive bill has come before the House, because it contains a little bit of everything - a little bit of the preparation system, a little bit of the progress, a little of the salaries - but it does not really show a comprehensive career, which shows what the course is, from entry to the foreign service to the pension or beyond the pension, and most of all, the whole concept of what is the idea of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the management of foreign representations, that it actually works properly and effectively, unfortunately we do not see at all in the law. It became an absolute accounting and economic leadership law. I have one final comment. We managed to create a real hungaricum again, as we can see that two parallel diplomacys have emerged from this point on in Hungary. There is a classic foreign diplomacy, and it became a prime minister's office, such a permanent representative diplomacy in Brussels. I think that, by the way, international practice does not show that this is the right and viable way. So I think that it is absolutely necessary to consider that, if there is a need for law, it is not to put together regulations so far, but to put together a real concept, a career, and a real viable foreign policy - obviously a good foreign policy - that would require a good foreign policy - that would require the creation of a law that is based on its implementation. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-199	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. This is the name of Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán again. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Instead of speaking, I would like to respond to Mrs Demeter's suggestions in a few words. As I have indicated here earlier, this is a special law relating to a framework law, namely the draft, together with the law on public service officials as a framework law, forms an organic unit, and I am very surprised that my fellow Member, if I have memorized his words correctly here, said that there are completely superficial measures in this law. I'm just trying to tell you a few things right away. So far, there have been two kinds of salaries for those on the foreign service. A domestic, completely unwarranted - it's an old-fashioned legacy. Basically, the whole system has changed. The system of various allowances has become completely transparent, and I think of it as raising children, housing or using cars to give just a few examples. But the bonus system that I mentioned here earlier, depending on how much work a station involves, how important it is, whether it is national policy, how important it is, and here I would refer to the fact that the surrounding countries are one of the so-called high-profile stations, all of which count to be financially appreciated by those working at the foreign representation outside. I think that it will certainly increase the appreciation of diplomatic careers and careers by the otherwise amending proposal we have tabled that the exceptional use of rank, i.e. not the rank corresponding to the normal diplomatic, career Diplomat status, or higher use of rank, can be permitted by the Minister, but according to the amending proposal only for the time of a particular foreign service, thus also appreciating or further underlining the assessment of career diplomats. So I think that I could go through a lot of issues here, point by point, where the situation is fundamentally changing. Obviously, this is the most important and the most effective area of benefits, where the greatest chaos has dominated in recent years. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-07-201	I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2016-06-07-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, when we first heard in the House that such a sectoral law was coming, I was pleased, too, and I thought it was a good initiative. In fact, I still think the idea is a good idea, but let me put it to your attention, Mr Vice-President, because of what my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has said that almost 90 percent of this law is already a text or text that has been passed through government decrees. So, therefore, there must be some doubt about his complexity. So when a law does nothing but 90 percent of the text contained in previous government decrees, it cannot be such a great novum in this law. It is true that this could still be a good legislative initiative. For our part, we simply missed that he wasn't a little braver, that the legislator, the legislator, or the initiation was no more ambitious. We would have thought that if there had been a sectoral law fully covering the diplomatic profession, it would certainly have brought more innovation and more novelty, it would have brought more security to the workers in the profession. By the way, not only did we make this criticism, but Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also said in his speech that it would have been worth making this draft a little more complex with regard to management issues. That is what my colleague, Mr Demeter, referred to in his contribution. [[18.50]] Nevertheless, I think it was the right and good initiative of the State Department to bring this law to the House. Indeed, perhaps one of the most important points or novelties of this bill is to transform the remuneration system of diplomats. I did not see as a problem what Mr Vice-President was talking about, namely whether they are now getting paid from two places or whether it is difficult to calculate, where appropriate, different commissions and other things. I think it was a much bigger problem for our diplomats that the level of pay or remuneration was far below that of the countries in the region. So in Hungarian, the salary of the Hungarian diplomatic faculty was far from that of diplomats working in various countries of the region, and I am not referring to German, Swiss or British, but even the salary of the Romanian, Slovak, Czech or Slovenian diplomatic faculty was much higher, and this had to be changed in any way. Of course, you can always say that, but others also make bad money in Hungary. Let me now insist that we are talking only about diplomacy, so this initiative is in any case a right and a good initiative. Another question is that I had a conversation with several of the current ambassadors, a specialist in diplomatic status. Not everyone can see exactly whether they will actually win this new system. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs may not have been able to calculate this precisely for everyone, as the provisions include a condition that, if someone were to do worse, they would not bring into force the new provisions of the law. This may suggest, however, that an accurate estimation or calculation cannot be made for everyone individually. Nevertheless, let us accept, for the time being, that this new remuneration system is positive for everyone, because that is the goal. It is not primarily about simplifying, because wage accounting has been resolved so far, but about giving our diplomats a higher remuneration, and thus not only moral appreciation, but also financial value, because it is possible for everyone in the store to buy it. It is also possible to note, as a criticism, that it seems from the amendments that the Fidesz majority brought into the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we also supported it, or if I recall the words of Zsolt Németh, in which he expressed many criticisms about the text of the draft law, I might have said that I could have actually sat down and said that I agree with Zsolt Németh and the criticisms he expressed. But in return, therefore, the amendments made in the Committee on Foreign Affairs show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs either failed or did not have enough effectiveness to coordinate with the Fidesz faction, because then perhaps not so many amendments would have been received from Members with Fidesz. But the end result is important. I think that a number of good amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I supported them then and now, and I thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the fact that I had several amendments that I thought were important. One of these was accepted by the State Department, and I think it was the right decision. Not because I formulated it, but because many professionals came to that conclusion. This is about not five plus a year, but four plus one year to appoint diplomats. This is simply for such a reason that in six years someone may be very separated from Hungarian reality, and in fact he may not even see exactly what is happening in the country that he should represent. I was a little sadder that two other amendments, I think, were not accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One was about the obligation to have a permanent address for the Ambassador and the citizen of the Host State should not have the nationality of the Host State, which would have had national security and many other reasons. I think that ten million Hungarians can find a good ambassador for the destinations of Hungarian foreign policy. I understand that, for practical reasons, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not accept this, because we currently have an ambassador who has the nationality of the host state, and who definitely does not have a permanent address in Hungary, so that would have caused problems, but that would have been possible with fewer political appointees or better thought-out political appointees. The third was about us accepting it, and we do not necessarily consider it a harmful practice if the proportions are correct, that all governments and not only the past, the present, but also the future will appoint political candidates for ambassadorship. In many cases, this may even help to develop relations or economic relations between countries. Here, we would have considered it acceptable for the current Minister of Foreign Affairs to refrain from the tendering system or the tendering process. So we think that this is a change that can be justified in daily practice. However, less so that all subordinate diplomats, all technical staff, are subject to the same, in Hungarian, so that they do not have to apply in any form. We think that this is going a little beyond the limit that could serve the rationality of the political candidates, so in Hungarian, we would have considered it useful to keep the application system there. Therefore, in summary, we can say that this initiative was a good step in the right direction. It may not be enough, and indeed, there would have been one or two other amendments, which we believe to be substantive and not technical, which we have not only formulated by our own faction, but also, where appropriate, this type of criticism from the Fidesz fraction, which then did not enter into the final text of the law. Therefore, for my part, I suggested to our faction not to support the law, but let us not say no, because somewhere between the two is the truth according to our professional belief, so the MSZP fraction will not vote against the law, nor will it support it, so with one stay we will express that it is a good move in the right direction, but perhaps we could have given a little more energy to make the text even more accurate, even better, professionally. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2016-06-07-203	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I would like to ask the author, Minister of State, Magyar Levente, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-07-204	Mr President, Dear House, This debate has already been held once in the detailed debate and very similar questions have been raised by the policy makers of the MSZP on foreign policy. Therefore, I do not want to repeat our arguments at the time, but in some respects I would nevertheless like to refer to the points raised so that no question marks or loose ends remain in anyone. First of all, I would like to stress that perhaps the main virtue of this law is that it exists at all or is expected to enter into force, because no government has ever, in the past 26 years, started to create such a comprehensive foreign law since the change of regime. This was a serious hiatus, which the current government has tried to make up for to its best knowledge. I accept that there may have been opinions that say that it could have gone further, that certain aspects could have been regulated in more detail, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a framework law, a kind of basis for a longer term career in foreign affairs and other relevant sub-questions, which are unlikely to be regulated at this speed in a few weeks. Nevertheless, I would like to decline the charge with respect that the preparation of the law was marked by haste. It has had long weeks for everyone to draw up their opinions, proposals, proposals, amendments, and, as Mr Attila Mesterházy referred to them, some of them have also been incorporated into the final draft law. Congresswoman Demeter said that the law does not do any harm, perhaps if it comes from the benches of the MSZP, we can take this as a kind of praise. Allow me to take it that way, so it can't be that bad if the MSZP puts it that way. And yes, Congresswoman, there are some very important practical issues, which I believe the bill contains, regulates in substance, as many have mentioned, for example, the issue of remuneration, which has been characterised by simply opaque chaos before, and in general, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has described the operation of a kind of improvisation, a kind of ad hoc, day-to-day decision-making. On these two issues, I think that it can be objectively demonstrated that the current legislation is making progress, and if it is able to simplify the previously opaque set of rules to the least extent, then the introduction of this law cannot be called in vain. [[19.00]] Once again, we consider the creation of a career model at foreign representations as a model of other professions and other disciplines, and perhaps we consider it appropriate, and I can assure you that we will come to this in this government cycle as soon as there is room for manoeuvre and opportunity. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Congressman, I would like to mention some of the specifics that have been raised. The fact that the operational maintenance and operation of the permanent representation in Brussels is out of the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, I think, is a logical step, which follows that in the summer of 2014, foreign diplomacy and the occupation of EU affairs were separated. This was a sound step, and it comes from our view that the EU issues are generally more within the competence of internal policy, their internal policy dimension is stronger than the classic diplomatic dimension, followed by this regulation. This way, the unity will be restored, the system that had already contained such a element, that the operational operation was with us, and the policy-making at the Prime Minister's Office, will now be finally settled. We also want to address this issue in a separate presentation on the issue of asset management. As far as the payment of our diplomatic staff is concerned, it is entirely legitimate to note that Hungary is currently 27th among the 28 European countries in this regard, which, I think, is an indicator that is not sufficient to perform, it is obvious that Hungary is capable of more than that. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2017 budget contains a huge increase in income in other aspects, with regard to other public servants and civil servants, it is obviously necessary to prioritize, and in relation to the demand made by the MSZP on several occasions, in the recent past, that teachers, doctors, in health care, workers in education should be paid better, I think you should also decide what is important. We have made the decisive decision to ensure that the payment of our diplomats - except for the most extreme unevenness - can still wait for you, although we will do everything we can to ensure that this is resolved as soon as possible. I would like to stress, therefore, that the outstanding imbalances that really exist in the system because of the previously opaque or difficult-to-transparent regulation will be settled as foreseen by the Budget Act in 2017, and we have budgetary coverage for this. I would also like to say to Congressman Mesterházy that the last time he had the most impressive comment on the delegates, the problem was that a foreign citizen should not be a diplomat, and I am pleased to say that since then the Member has had the opportunity to read the bill in detail, because of the fact that nothing is, of course, true. We have never recommended that a foreign national be a Hungarian diplomat, ambassador, Head of Mission or even a subordinate diplomat. The Kttv. The rules of law apply to officials who undertake diplomatic careers, and the fact that someone does not have or have a permanent address in Hungary, I think that it is not a relevant aspect when people are selected who are the most suitable or most suitable for the given task, but actually, let's say, they have spent a significant part of their lives abroad, and on a daily basis they have had no contact with Hungary for years, so they can still be excellent ambassadors or senior consultants. Overall, I would like to thank you for the support we have received in recent weeks during the various stages of the negotiation of the bill. I would like to thank the Vice President for his appreciation. I think that this bill is a step forward, a 25-year-old guarantee resolution, and I would like to continue to ask for support from the MSZP and the other parties that, once we have laid down these funds, we can continue to build on the rules on external economic management, the further development of foreign affairs administration and its details, including the remuneration and career model, and also the key issues of asset management. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the requirements of the EU's trade and investment agreements with third countries and the final amendment proposal follow up. Congressman András Schiffer, LMP, by H/9798. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee in 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-07-206	Mr President, Dear House, On 2 June 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the requirements for European Union trade and investment agreements with third countries H/9798. The Committee submitted a proposal for a decision submitted by András Schiffer, LMP, and submitted 27 amendments and a summary report with 1 sex and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains two of the three-point amendment proposals of the Committee on European Affairs. As has been said, the amending proposal clarifies the names of the trade agreements included in the proposal for a decision. The Council of the European Union has authorised the European Commission to negotiate an agreement under mixed competence in negotiating directives with regard to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, the CETA, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership between the European Union and the United States of America, the TTIP and the Multifaceted Trade Agreement on Services within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, TiSA. The proposal for a decision states that the entry into force of agreements of mixed competence requires national ratification procedures in each Member State. On this basis, it is also essential that CETA or TTIP or TiSA should not enter into force temporarily before all EU Member States have ratified these conventions. However, it is important to note that the present proposal for a decision does not give an opinion on the conventions, but sets out how they are adopted, avoiding any appearances of prejudication. In line with this principle, the amendments were accepted by the TAB. I therefore ask that you support the proposal for a decision in its present form. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Schiffer, if he wishes to speak now. [[On Dr. András Schiffer's signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a few comments on, on the one hand, what Mr Salacz has just said here, and what has happened in the last few weeks. I'd like to start with the latter. I have already said in the debate on the proposal for a decision that Hungary will jump out of the trenches, if you will. I mentioned the position of the new Austrian head of state, the position of the Polish Government, the position of the President of the French Republic and the likely referendum on TTIP in the Netherlands. At the same time, it is a new development: a few days ago, in the British referendum campaign on Britain's stay in Europe, Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the British opposition, who, by the way, campaigned to stay, clearly stated that if the Labour Party came to power in Britain, they would say no to these free trade agreements. [[19.10]] So it is clear that the system is becoming more and more crackling, and more and more people in Europe are discovering that these conventions undermine the well-being of Europeans as a kind of Trojan horse. I therefore take the liberty of arguing with what Mr Salacz has just said, that, indeed, this proposal for a resolution is a judgment on these conventions, because what is in this proposal for a decision - and I was particularly pleased with the proposals made by Mr Bencsik - makes it clear that these conventions will not be acceptable to Hungary. For these free trade agreements are precisely about destroying the level of food safety, financial regulation, consumer protection, environmental and nature protection that has already been achieved throughout the European Union. At the same time, this proposal for a decision entrusts the Government of Hungary with a mandate to step in and veto any free trade pact which, by the way, represents a step backwards from the level already achieved in terms of food safety, environmental and nature protection, labour law and health protection. That is precisely the essence of these conventions, the downward competition, because when they talk about non-tariff barriers to trade, they put precisely the dismantling of rules protecting people, communities and natural resources in the cross-section. Hungary must say no to such agreements, Hungary, the Hungarian people can only be the losers of such free trade pacts. One of the proposals of my fellow Member Bencsik, supported by the Legislative Committee, complements the proposal for a resolution so that Hungary can resist the temporary entry into force of any of these three conventions. This is extremely topical, and it is important that my fellow Member Bencsik made this proposal, and I supported it as a rapporteur myself, because the so-called CETA, the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, is slowly being ratified. The ratification procedure may be opened not so slowly, as early as the autumn. If and if this Convention were to be put into effect for just a few weeks or a few months, then Hungary's GMO exemption, as laid down in the Basic Law, will be abolished. Therefore, the draft free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union clearly and clearly breaks the precautionary principle. There, if the precautionary principle is replaced by the principle that only risks should be measured, it means that Hungary will no longer be GMO-free. It is the precautionary principle that guarantees that we cannot grow genetically modified organisms in Hungary, or that Hungary has the means to maintain its GMO-free nature and to protect organic agriculture. I would like to draw attention to one more point, which is on the anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures in point 2. The concept of an anti-democratic dispute resolution procedure includes not only the so-called ISDS, but also the ICS fantasy dispute resolution mechanism. Hungary must clearly and clearly say no to order compensation for millions of dollars in offshore courts. You must clearly say no to the fact that for the decisions that the Hungarian Parliament has given the authority of the people here, then private courts financed by various multinational companies will bring Hungary to the torture bench. Dear Parliament, It is quite clear that both the circumvention of national state parliamentary ratification and the temporary entry into force prior to ratification and the institution of private courts are an attack on the sovereignty of each EU Member State, each of the nations concerned. It cannot be overlooked that on one side these conventions are being pushed by a thousand global corporations simply because it is in their interest to maximise profits, their profit maximization is served by these conventions, and on the other hand, it cannot be overlooked that today, at the present stage of global capitalism, it is in the 21st century. In the 18th century, the national state framework also hinders the profits and appetites of giant companies. It must be made clear that Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, only supports a policy where profits cannot prevent people. We need to be able to say no to all international conventions that are precisely about profit preventing man, that is, to throw away rules protecting man, natural resources, communities because of the appetite for profits of some giant companies. Dear Parliament, This proposal for a decision is about not being able to bypass national parliaments, and that Hungary will not assist, or agree to free trade agreements which represent a step backwards to Europe compared to its already achieved level of consumer protection, food safety, health, environmental and nature protection, human rights and labour law. And not least, on the basis of the Bencsik amendment, this proposal for a resolution states that Hungary will go against any attempt that would allow these conventions to enter into force temporarily. The temporary entry into force threatens Hungary's GMO-free status, the temporary entry into force is an attack on Hungary's sovereignty. János Bencsik's other accepted amendment also clarifies the framework under which the Hungarian government should negotiate at all, or within which framework it should act within the European Union. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal for a resolution together with the amendments adopted, that this negotiating position serves the interests of Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people. Not least, these conventions can further deepen the gap between the so-called semi-peripheral countries in the eastern and southern parts of Europe and the central countries, which strengthen the two-speed nature of the European Union, and, not least, if transatlantic trade becomes more intense, it will also very easily lead to the European Union's trade disintegration. What we see today is that, in political, internal security terms, the European Union is a lame duck, and what we see is that the euro area is only spreading the differences between the centre and the semi-periphery countries. These free trade agreements can ultimately put the European Union at a dead end, as from now on the increasing volume of transatlantic trade could easily lead to a reduction in trade flows and a decrease in the importance of intra-European trade. I would like to confirm once again that every measurement available to us shows that 600 000 jobs in Europe are at risk because of these free trade agreements, and these free trade agreements predict an increase that can hardly be detected by a microscope. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For Hungary and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-209	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, It is my duty to inform you that you have used your time, so at the end of the debate you did not have time to say the closing word. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to speak. [[On Dr. István Mikola's signal:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2016-06-07-210	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I would like to make a few comments very briefly on what has been said. We are not in a position to say 'yes' or 'no' to the planned free trade agreements, since there is not one agreement that has been made here, neither the negotiations between the European Union and Canada, nor between the European Union and the United States have yet to come together with compact materials. In fact, CETA already has compact material, but the European Commission has not yet submitted this material to the Council, the customer. [[19.20]] But, as Mr Schiffer has said, this is likely to happen this year, and indeed, it is certain that it will happen and a ratification process will be launched. However, I would like to draw attention to the complexity of this ratification process, because the European Member States are quite divided on the issue of the dispute resolution mechanism, although now the European Commission has invented a new system instead of the original ISDS mechanism, which the United States has not even responded to with regard to TTIP. This is the so-called Investment Court System, ICS. My experience at the Brussels negotiating table is that European countries are divided on the admissibility of this, so it is likely that the ratification process will be long and complicated, and it will not be quite sure to end this year. It is absolutely clear and the Government fully supports that, since the agreements are a mixed agreement, no provisional application is possible prior to the entry into force of the agreement between the European Union and Canada. Although I must say that the European 28 position is not entirely uniform in this regard, the majority supports this approach. I would also like to say that it is very important for us to have this proposal for a resolution, as it helps the government as a point of alignment in the further negotiations on which it will pay maximum attention to what has been said here in Parliament. Although I could not be here during these debates, I read all the minutes, and I saw that a very meaningful debate had taken place, which could serve as a very serious ammunition for us and our experts in the course of subsequent negotiations. The GMO is said over and over again as a threat, but I must say that there is no mention of GMOs at the negotiating table, since the European Commission has not been authorised to discuss this issue, it simply has no competence to do so. In our case, since it is a law-bound issue, there is no question of the government's position here. So in this, since there are no debates, I think we can be calm, that GMO is not at risk, although there is no doubt that in terms of TTIP, we are perhaps at the very beginning of a negotiation process that is likely to take place for many years, since we should not forget that 14 of the 25 planned dossiers have yet been drawn up. These so-called consolidated materials, but the consolidated material does not mean that the two negotiating partners have come to a common denominator, it just means that everyone has recorded their position, so there will still be further discussions within them. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr András Schiffer, and the Hungarian Parliament, for discussing this issue in such depth and helping us at the negotiating table in our work of representing further Hungarian interests. However, in the end, I would like to stress that we cannot stand up from the negotiating table, because then we will give up the representation of Hungarian interests. The Hungarian negotiating delegation represents Hungarian interests fairly strongly and consistently; we are not always sympathetic to this; we are not even sympathetic to it at all in Brussels. But we must be there in the negotiations, this is very important - if there is a TTIP agreement at all, because it is the most critical issue - that it really is for us to benefit from it, and not with disadvantages or some sort of catastrophic consequences, as has been said. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Committee on European Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. As the first speaker, Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, is coming. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-212	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, a lot of useful and interesting comments were made during the previous debate, and I would now just like to reflect or highlight a few things again. The Secretary of State mentioned the question of the public. I think it is right and good that we are talking about this issue here in Parliament. I encouraged the representatives of the government last time that this debate should not be such a one-time debate, so it is worth creating the public here in Parliament recently and recently, because, as the Secretary of State said, the text is not ready yet, there are a lot of changes in it. There is incorrect information, whether in the press or anywhere else, and there is surprising information, as there have not long been negotiation topics intended to be secret, summaries of the various negotiations that I think have put in a completely new context, and unfortunately, they have confirmed the fears that there is a very strong corporate lobby, and interests prevail instead of actually negotiating with the trading partners. So, in this respect, continuous information, continuous publicity, both from the point of view of government negotiation, and then the general, general conciliation process are certainly important. At the time, I suggested that he should surrender, there are at least three committees in Parliament, if we do not want to deal with this in plenary, the Economic Committee, where appropriate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the EU Committee, and, of course, the Committee on Agriculture, where these issues are worth putting on the agenda. The other, that's what I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. They had been born or written at the government's request for various impact studies, if I remember correctly, perhaps in the coordination of the Academy of Sciences, and then there was a debate about how public they were, how accessible they were. This has been made clear by the new foreign affairs management, but such impact assessments, analyses, I think should also be prepared when we have the final text on the negotiations, because they have changed a lot since then, you have mentioned the issue of GMOs and the way in which the dispute resolution is dealt with, and I am sure that this will change even further in the coming weeks and months. It does not matter at all what changes are made during the negotiations on health issues, environmental, labour law and food safety issues, or what form new text proposals will affect Hungarian agriculture, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the mechanical engineering industry and the automotive industry. So I ask the Secretary of State in Hungarian, and if he does, for a moment he will mention in his closing speech whether the government is preparing to ask for further impact analyses on the basis of the final text - I hope not only of the Századvég, but also of other institutions - and whether he will be able to provide at least the public with them by the government. The other may be a bit critical, or it can certainly be classified as such. If we have already talked about the public, if we have already accepted that the Secretary of State said that it is very difficult to give a clear position in this regard today, because we do not yet see the exact text, it is all true, but it would be worth clarifying what the government's attitude to this whole process is now. I think what the State Department is saying is a completely rational attitude, that you can't give a cornered opinion, because we don't see what the outcome is, which makes decisions, but that's not how all government members act. The Prime Minister himself has already said yes to this process called TTIP; the last time at a meeting of AmCham, the American ambassador happily announced how pleased the Hungarian Prime Minister was to support this process and the conclusion of this agreement. Then, either before or after, John Lazarus signed a petition about how much Europe does not need this, and if I remember correctly, perhaps Antal Rogán took a similar position a few months ago. I would just like to point out that these types of ministerial speeches, or the Prime Minister's position or opinion itself, are probably not conducive to negotiating in Brussels, so that is clarity, or, I would say, caution is certainly justified, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shares in your presentation or in your previous sentences. By the way, the amendments which have arrived from the Committee on European Affairs, if I remember correctly, three or four amendments, we can support them all for our part; they are clarifying or opening up a question more or less, and on an important issue concerning temporaryism, which the Secretary of State also spoke about, perhaps contain a more precise wording. [[19.30]] For our part, we will support both the amendments and the draft decision itself on behalf of the MSZP fraction. Let me also thank András Schiffer for bringing this debate to the Hungarian Parliament on this proposal in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-213	Thank you. Speakers seeking a normal word will follow. First, Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-214	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, before I react, let me express my joy that this dialogue could have been established between us. I think that if the Hungarian Government takes the side of Hungarian citizens in this matter and stretches out its hand in order to protect Hungarian citizens against large capital and multinational capital, then perhaps this step will help the European Union to do the same to EU citizens and finally represent European Union citizens instead of large American companies. So I would also like to express my joy in talking about this at all. I am even more pleased if, through multi-party negotiations, the Parliament adopts the motion of my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, and my fellow political group. Our proposal is about free trade agreements that have a major impact on the lives of Hungarians. On the basis of such agreements, a lawsuit has been filed in recent years against governments that wanted to improve the living conditions of their citizens, thus confronting the unscrupulous appetite of multinational companies, and it is very difficult for them to defend the interests of citizens. The Canadian Free Trade Convention to be ratified and the Transatlantic Free Trade Partnership in the negotiation phase contain the dispute settlement system of the investor State. This is why it is important what our proposal for a decision states, namely, that Parliament insists on taking part in the ratification process, representing the interests of Hungarian citizens. It is also important to say together that it is not acceptable in any way that free trade agreements include anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures. The government must also take action against the adoption of the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, CETA, which gives Canadian investors privileges to domestic and EU investors. Let me tell Mr Mikola, Secretary of State, who said that they insist on maintaining the country's GMO-free status, that it is already in the CETA in a textual way. At the moment, only yes and no can be present, so unfortunately, this security cannot be guaranteed to us, Mr Secretary of State. It is also necessary to take action to remove from CETA the anti-democratic system of investment courts, which would enter into force instead of the public dispute resolution procedure proposed by the European Commission, which is opposed by many investors. The investment court system is, in essence, no better or more democratic than the investor State dispute resolution mechanism, so it is not an opportunity to make progress. It also allows foreign companies to sue the EU Member States, and thus Hungarian constitutional protection, such as GMOs, does not provide sufficient protection for Hungary. It also gives foreign investors privileges vis-à-vis domestics. It also does not guarantee judicial independence. It also sets out legal procedures in the national and EU judicial systems. Even in the event of the adoption of a free trade agreement between CETA, Canada and the European Union, a minute's notice can be given to European countries, because many US companies with Canadian headquarters can immediately bring legal proceedings against our country, for example, if we want to tighten up our GMO rules to ensure that we achieve a non-genetically modified agriculture, which is supposed to be required by our constitution. It is incomprehensible why the European Commission insists on taking advantage of foreign investors, despite the fact that 97 percent of the hundreds of thousands of European consultations have completely rejected this dispute resolution procedure, and the other European governments are against it. It is important to say that free trade agreements cannot enter into force temporarily before parliamentary ratification. Whether on the basis of CETA or TTIP's investor protection sections, multinational companies could sue Hungary for their non-benefits for years if we didn't bring these conventions into our legal system. We are convinced that the government has an obligation to take action against anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures. Here, too, I would respond to Secretary Mikola, who said that they had not yet stood up. Well, it is also a big problem that they have not yet stood up, because in my opinion, we should communicate more clearly that globalisation cannot be good for Hungary and for the citizens of Hungary. What TTIP offers is not just about GMOs and not about some large companies, but about whether Hungary is being served on multinational capital. As a result, in such a situation, there is very little opportunity for us to do so. It is no coincidence that the National Sustainable Development Council chaired by President László Kövér, in which the Academy, the economic sector and the civil sector are represented, agreed in a relatively strong position with the amendments tabled by Mr János Bencsik, which were built on them. For this reason, I ask the Parliament, together with the amendments, to accept, and for once, against an external enemy, the opposition and the government should join forces to protect the citizens of the country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-215	Congressman Zsolt Legány, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the short timeframe available, I would like to address two key ideas or key moments. One is the food safety mentioned by my fellow Member Mr Schiffer András. I would also like to say that the Hungarian Socialist Party is, of course, only an acceptable solution if we can maintain food safety. We would not be able to adopt any solution, no convention that would jeopardise food safety, which is very, very important in Hungary, because what Hungarian citizens in this country eat, what they consume is not negligible. The other is the issue of this GMO exemption or GMO. Mr Mikola, State Secretary, has also pointed out that he has been clearly formulated in the Committee on Agriculture in the past, and here in the House, that we intend to maintain and maintain our GMO exemption. I think it's one of those corners that you can't let go of. It is just an unfortunate thing that has already been stated in professional debates that the Hungarian borders cannot be closed hermetically, so if GMO-free is not applied in the neighbouring countries, it will be able to ring across the border sooner or later, but it belongs to another subject, another question would be. In other words, my fellow Member Mesterházy has already mentioned that we will naturally support this proposal, but I thought it should be pointed out separately that food safety and GMO exemption are two very, very important key moments of this whole story. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik!
u2016-06-07-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has made it clear from the outset that it supports the proposal for a resolution that lies before us and that praises András Schiffer's work. At the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, we went through the amendments, and I think that we could have supported the proposals that, in the end, did not receive a positive welcome from the government, because they were even clearer and, overall, this proposal before us would have been more round. One of the amendments tabled by János Bencsik, which could be against us from the point of view of Hungary if the Conventions were adopted, was even more specific. It is also clear that without ratification by the Member States, CETA and TTIP cannot enter into force. The entry into force of this provisional measure was of utmost importance, and it is glad that the motion for a provisional entry into force has been adopted. I trust that the government's position in this respect will be consistent in the period ahead. Why do I say that? Because we have fears, because if we look back over the past period, we could sense a double speech. We have seen that there have been governmental actors who have expressed much more in favour of the agreements contained in the proposal for a decision. Of course, from the other side, it should also be said that there were strong people inside the Fidesen who expressed strong objections. However, we have seen that Fidesz MEPs in the European Parliament were very supportive of the issue of the EU and the Free Trade Agreement. So for our part, we are not at all sure that these things may not go wrong, and in the future, the government's position may not be less consistent and consistent than we can see now. [[19.40]] After all, the Secretary of State said that we cannot say yes or no now, that we must sit at the negotiating table. Yes, we say that we must do this by expressing Hungarian interests. And we have seen, however, not in one case, that the same government communication was the same, and then, in the end, the details of the contracts that we, Hungary, considered to be of concern were not included or, where appropriate, published. Then the final agreement was that we would accept them after all. I mean, there's nothing else we can do, and the majority of us are okay with it, and we can't get out of that line. I would therefore like to clarify this, and ask Mr Secretary of State that this communication should continue not only be between us, because this is also extremely important, but also with civil society organisations that are definitely raising their voice in our country, either in the context of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement with Canada or in the context of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. This is very important, and I am referring to this because, of course, it can also be said here that this danger does not exist. But we can see that the latest information cannot be obtained, so we are not so optimistic in this regard. It is therefore important to stand firm on these issues, not only in the case of GMO exemption, but also in the case of ISDS, ICS, or in order to protect the Hungarian economy and protect small and medium-sized enterprises. For the same reason, the free trade agreements of a similar nature showed that they had the consequence that the multinational companies had sued individual nation states, and they were always suffering from them. This is also a point in this direction, which is why we need to take a position as decisively as possible. So I am asking the entire government, through the Secretary of State, from the Group of Jobbik, to really stick to our position to the end. And if we see the negotiations going in such a way that, based on what has been said here, which Mr Mikola, State Secretary, is not acceptable, then let us indeed dare to say no and stand so firmly for our own national interests. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in the last 26 years. I hope that this will happen in this case, even because the impact assessments available do not support the positive impact on the economy. On the contrary, even surveys or studies close to the government or close to the European Commission point to the fact that this will be detrimental. I see that this is particularly true in the case of Central Europe. So I would end with this message, and I would ask the Secretary of State to do so, of course confirming once again that, in this form, as we will finally be able to vote on the proposal for a resolution, we will be able to support the Jobbik Group, and we will continue to say our opinion decisively not only here in Parliament, but also in the European Parliament and in the relevant international forums, in order to fully protect Hungarian national interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-219	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not have time, as he said in the introduction. So all that remains, my dear Parliament, is to inform you that the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/10527. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed on 26 May 2016 the T/10527 on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 27 Yes, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the technical specifications of the Judicial Committee and, on the other hand, the motion of the Legislative Committee, which will override the committee's proposal on two points. A substantive debate on the bill was not reached at the committee's meeting. Please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-07-221	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll see if anyone wants to speak. Yeah. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me share some thoughts about the law before us on behalf of the MSZP fraction with you. On 26 February 2014, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Directive of the European Union on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial authorisation of the online use of musical works in the internal market. The deadline for transposition of the Directive into Hungarian law was 10 April 2016. This is the transposition of the bill. Given the need for more regulation as a result of the Directive, the author has decided that a separate law will regulate this area instead of the legislation on the subject in the Copyright Act today. As far as this law is concerned, we believe that there are some issues that may be clarified by this debate today. The first is that it would be interesting to know, for example, how fees and supervisory fees, which will also provide the operating conditions of the National Intellectual Property Office, will develop. How much does direct electronic contact cost, how does this new regulation affect market participants? The second is why the Minister responsible for legislation does not comply with the obligation imposed on him by the 2010 Social Participation Act, which concerns the fact that he does not have an obligation to respond to social consultation, but after considering the opinions received, and, in the case of rejected opinions, a so-called typised summary of the reasons for rejection, which should be published on the website together with the list of opinionaries. This would certainly help the clarity of those involved in the social debate, since the bill was submitted to Parliament on 4 May 2016. Then the third is that we have no knowledge of whether or not the draft has been consulted by the court, the Data Protection Authority. I'm sure that would be very forward-looking. The fourth point is that the proposal also does not explain why, if the directive on which the regulation was based had to be transposed by 10 April 2016, the legislative proposal would have been submitted only now. And the fifth question, which I would like to point out to you by the Secretary of State, is that 9 associations can be read on the website of the SZNH today as collecting societies, so they are listed as registered organisations. The question is whether they have a professional agreement on the current legislation. This is also a major contribution to assessing the effectiveness and effectiveness of this draft law. For this reason, the faction point at the moment is that, because of these issues and some other comments that my fellow Member Zsolt Legény will be speaking about, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction does not support this law in its present form. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-223	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP, please, as a representative. [[19.50]]
u2016-06-07-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mesterházy, has already mentioned collecting societies, and I would like to mention this. The aim of this proposal would be to transpose an EU directive, and this directive, the transposition of which would be aimed at the proposal, does not contain specific rules for representative collecting societies. In addition, it comes from, I quote, in its provisions that define the principles of regulation, in an internal market where competition is not distorted, the protection of innovation and intellectual creation also encourages investment in innovative services and products. We believe that the faction of the MSZP is not unfounded, according to which we cannot be sure that competition in the field of joint law management in Hungary is being achieved. It is proposed that the collective management organisation may use the specific part of its royalty income and its revenue from its activities other than membership fees and joint management of rights under the conditions laid down by law for the Community purposes of rightholders, in particular for social and cultural purposes. The collecting society may use its revenue for cultural purposes by transferring it to the National Cultural Fund. So basically, NKA, the discretionary authority of the National Cultural Fund, is how to distribute this money, how to distribute it, for what purposes. We believe that this distribution is not transparent, so it cannot be supported, and this is one of our very important arguments for not being able to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-06-07-225	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer, LMP.
u2016-06-07-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Of course, the bill itself, the amendment to the copyright law, can be supported, since the proposal is largely technical, but the amendment, which is before us, is nothing more than that of the summary amendment, that if the rightholder or the rightholder's place of residence is unknown and therefore the royalty income cannot be paid, it will be transferred to the National Cultural Fund. Of course, LMP has also said this in the last cycle, we have a serious problem with the system of collective management, which is now almost 50 years old in Hungary, but when there is a so-called, so-critifiable collective management system, there are collecting societies that are also available on the website of the National Intellectual Property Office, then there is a question of the purpose of redirecting non-payable royalty revenues to the National Cultural Fund. In recent years, we have seen that the National Cultural Fund serves nothing more than to use the resources of the National Cultural Fund for the purposes of a particular interest, a certain cultural trend. Today, the National Cultural Fund does not serve cultural diversity, diversity, but uses this revenue in accordance with the interests of a lobby group or a trend. In the past, it is not possible to talk about effective social control over the use of the resources of the National Cultural Fund. At this point, it is also interesting what my fellow Member Mesterházy said that, while a law on social participation in legislation was adopted in 2010 on the motion of the judicial portfolio, what does the judicial portfolio think is that in his presentation a proposal specifically concerns various organisations operating in a given area, and we do not know what the organisations concerned think of the motion itself or, in particular, the summary amendment proposal. It is not a question of establishing a right on the basis of the opinions of the organisations, but it is about that, and this was the justification of the legislative law, which is the policy objective of autumn 2010 so that Parliament decides that the organisations concerned know the views of the citizens concerned. In addition, it is also of concern that royalty revenues that are not payable are transferred to the NCA, or rather, I would say that this would be a concern even if the activities of the NCA were fully satisfied, since it is dogmatically nonsense that collecting societies have social responsibilities, the support of artists, essentially the concentration of royalty revenues in the collective management organisation, what kind of dogmatical logic could lead these non-payable royalties to be transferred to the National Cultural Fund. The solution is also systematic, and the aim would be that if the author or author's place of residence did not make it possible to pay a royalty income which the collecting society would otherwise have to transfer to the author or to the heiress of the author, then this revenue should remain with the collecting society, be it, enrich the property of the collecting society by allowing the collecting society to use the proceeds for specific social purposes, where appropriate. Such a solution would be supported by the LMP, as it is a rather sad sight to see how many authors and artists live today in miserable conditions in Hungary. Yes, any additional income generated by this should be devoted to the goal of these collecting societies trying to improve the living conditions and creative circumstances of artists living in otherwise shameful circumstances. Compared to this, it becomes part of a large community that tries to promote culture in a rather one-way way, although the political and dogmatical purpose of this type of revenue would also be quite different. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will therefore not be able to support the summary amendment. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-227	Congressman Zsolt Crew, please.
u2016-06-07-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I forgot to mention one thing earlier, which I also think is important that the proposal, in its regulatory procedures and in the official procedures it regulates, prescribes the general rules of the administrative procedure, Ket., with a few exceptions. We think that this would have been worth a little more thought, since we know that the judicial portfolio is planning to submit a general administrative order to the Parliament, which contains a framework for administrative procedures. How do I put this? Our faction does not miss a proposal to further destroy or reform the procedural rules of the public authorities, but we believe that the Minister responsible should have expected when he presented this proposal, and that these rules are likely to be changed now. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-229	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner.
u2016-06-07-230	Make it short. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was time for the transposition of the directive on 10 April, both because of the conciliation and the delay in the legislative processes, that we can conclude on this today. There was a question of the extent to which the costs of the ISTNH will be charged here. This is an established system, since since 2011, this type of activity has been covered by the ISTNH, but we are not expecting an increase in costs in the future. As an organisation in contact with collecting societies, the SZTNH, of course, agreed on the proposal, had several administrative discussions, held the parliamentary debate, the Commission's discussions took place, so the content of the draft was known. Mr Schiffer suggested that the National Cultural Fund has a social and cultural purpose over that part of the revenue that cannot be distributed or paid due to the lack of right holders. Hopefully, the transparency of the operation of the NKA ensures that everyone can be assured of the purposes for which they will be used, including the Czech Tamás programme. That's all I wanted to add. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[20.00]]
u2016-06-07-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/10528. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. You have eight minutes. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 June 2016 the T/10528 amending Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report summarizing yes, 7 sexes and 4 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Judicial Committee and the legislative committee's own proposals, which will override the referral of the Judicial Committee on two points. During the debate, the biggest voice or biggest debate was triggered by the rules on parenting. The amending proposal makes it clear that there is no room to enforce a claim for reimbursement in cases where the person, institution or person concerned has a legal or contractual obligation to provide for the needs of the parent in need of maintenance. For example, there is no obvious obligation to reimburse the benefit if it is granted on the basis of a maintenance or annuity contract. I believe that the opposition is on the wrong track when it talks about how the state wants to shake off its burdens and put social and retirement benefits on its citizens. In fact, in this case, it is the intention of the legislator to fill with substance a rule that existed earlier, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, so that it can be enforced to care for his parents. In view of the fact that the proposal was preceded by a four-party consultation and a number of opposition proposals have been adopted, please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-233	Thank you. Minority opinion, seven minutes tops. Congressman Gergely Bárándy!
u2016-06-07-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Vas Imre said when he presented the majority opinion, the bill was actually about a lot of things, it contains a lot of all kinds of provisions, and the amendments were made more widely than the discussion itself. The debate, which was, by the way, a serious debate on the TAB, was indeed about parenting, and perhaps even more arguments came up during the Commission's debate compared to the general debate. The opposing opinions were broadly identical in substance to what was already said at the plenary session by the representatives of the individual groups. Members of the Committee representing minority positions expressed their opinion that it is unfortunate, indeed unfortunate, that the state wishes to move further and further out of the social sphere. My fellow Member Vas Imre has just said that this legislation fills in with substance a similar provision of the Fundamental Law. I'd put it a little backwards. At a time when there was a debate at all about the adoption of the Fundamental Law - this has not happened - we have already indicated in the ad hoc committee on the preparation of the Constitution that we cannot accept that certain fundamental rights in particular in the social field will become a state target. For example, the right to elderly care, which has also become a state goal as a fundamental right. That is why I would not put it this way, as my fellow Member Imre Vas did, that they fill the provision with substance, but I would say that our reservations about the Fundamental Law at the time, and the Fidesz Members then said that, oh, these are only declarative rules, they have no normative power, so we now see how much there is. We see that it is precisely on this basis that the provisions on parenting have been made, which are already a substantial additional burden for descendants and are a substantial relief for the state. It is not the problem, and they also stressed this minority opinion, that anyone would argue that a descendant would have a moral obligation, an obligation to care for the parents, grandparents who raised them, who gave them life. This obligation of care, this moral obligation, is not disputed by anyone, nor am I doing it now. All we have opposed is that by using this moral rule as an instrument they are trying to justify why the state is practically moving further and further out of the social sphere, the social area. No one has disputed that some of the basics of the obligation have already existed in previous legislation, but I also object to and object to the fact that, compared to this, this legislation now creates a situation that imposes an additional burden on descendants and puts the state in a lighter position. We believe that a social rule can work if the state ensures a certain level of benefits to its citizens at the level of fundamental rights. For example, the right to minimum care in old age. This right is granted by the State even when there are otherwise dependent descendants. Let me also remind you that in the vast majority of these people have worked through their lives, paid contributions and taxes to the state, which is why the state has a dog's duty to care for these people. But even if we look at a social rule of law and a minimum social safety net, we can also get there that the state has to ensure a minimum level of care even if it has not paid a penny of contributions and a penny of taxes in that state. But again, it's not that. It is also about people who have paid taxes and contributions during their lives for many decades at work. These are the obligations you wish to pass on to the descendants now, considerably more than previously. We continue to find this unacceptable, and the representatives of the committee, who have drafted a minority opinion, expressed their disapproval in this particular area, and therefore voted against the summarised amendment proposal, and I would add that this is why we will, in particular, vote against the entire legislative package. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-07-235	Thank you very much. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: At the end.]] Tell me you'll end up with it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Well, you should join the debate.]] Let's hope this happens very quickly. Now, here's the thing. I would like to inform you that the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur and that there will be speeches by its representatives. Hope dies last - Congressman András Schiffer asked for a word, so we will bring the two together. Here you go. [[20.10]]
u2016-06-07-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say to my colleague Mr Vas Imre that, yes, we continue to maintain that the transfer of the entire parenting institution through the civil code prepares the state to withdraw from older care, as in general, from the welfare sphere. This is the objective of the neoliberal, neo-conservative policy, which the Orbán government has consistently represented since 2010. After all, what else would be the goal when in the constitutional process you have the social rights... [[Dr. Vas Imre is talking to Dr. Pál Völner.]] - I will wait for you, Mr Vas, or perhaps press a button, which is also a solution - social rights, as is the case, have been shredded, and the social rule of law has been abolished. And the transposition of the parenting institution into civil law simply means that you will put the reins between horses and impose, as an obligation for ordinary people, what the state normally provides in welfare states. In this area, if there is something to be done about the judicial wallet, I have also proposed, at this five-party meeting, that the free benefits or inheritance agreements that are concluded by elderly people with various elderly social institutions and their maintainers should be declared null and void. Over the past 10 to 20 years, there have been a lot of ignominious cases where these institutions have wiped out people in need by having all their assets written on these institutions. I think that this cannot be allowed, and where there would be a regulatory responsibility for the state, it is precisely that once a care contract is concluded, so this is not about some free allowance, but a maintenance institution undertakes to care for an elderly person for money, then the civil code excludes a valid agreement between the same persons on the basis of the remuneration paid. However, there is another neurological point to this bill, for which LMP will say no in the final vote, namely the return of the autonomous pledge to Hungarian civil law. At the time, the draft Ptk put on the table by Professor Vékás did not break up with the institution of the self-reimbursement by accident. A stand-alone pledge, like such a separate pledge institution, is precisely capable of resuscitating real estate bubbles which, by the way, caused the financial crisis in 2008. I said in the debates that, for example, Slovenia was directly threatened by the collapse of the financial system by the same legal institution. It is not an answer in itself that, but here in codification, consumers were also tried to protect. Not only do there have consumer concerns about the institution of a self-reliance, but the main problem is that if fictitious goods are placed on the financial markets, the business is placed on the market, that is, virtual legal objects that can be concluded with business agreements, behind which there is no tangible performance, law, something of value, it can very easily help to expand the speculative economy. So while the Prime Minister declared war on the speculative economy in his seat booking in 2010 - and, of course, against nihilism and cynicism; we know the result - the independent pledge is typically a legal institution that helps the speculative economy to flourish. It introduces uncertainty that can very easily undermine financial stability in Hungary. So with the self-reimbursement, one concern is a consumer protection concern that the draft is trying to address well and badly, but the other concern is that it is actually creating a double, that the same property can actually have a variety of marketable property rights, and from that point on, there is the possibility in the system of re-growing financial bubbles, real estate bubbles that, for example, started the financial crisis in the United States, or, for example, in Slovenia, a neighbouring country not far from us, they almost ended up in a financial disaster. That's why I warned you not to lead this institution back. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-237	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Völner wishes to reflect, please.
u2016-06-07-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to reassure Mr Barándy, as I have tried in the course of the debate. In return for taxes and contributions, the state will, of course, continue to provide pensions and health care. As far as social benefits are concerned, this does not mean a withdrawal from the state. It is quite precisely formulated in the Ptk., and I think that thinking about those amendments or the one-year limitation period is all of the evidence that the state is not preparing the withdrawal, but that it serves to show and clarify an existing obligation based on nature law in the Ptk., more precisely than the previous kinship rules. Mr Schiffer mentioned, on the one hand, that the government would pursue a neoliberal policy, and that is why this amendment would be included. Perhaps you have just said that we do not agree, because this has nothing to do with economic policy, and in general I would argue that neoliberal economic policy is the driving force behind the economic philosophy of the Fidesz-KDNP government. With regard to the self-reimbursement, I can only repeat: practically a kind of regulation has been introduced that provides guarantees for the German sample. On the one hand, it is not possible to double the claim because it has been used in the form of a mortgage and in the context of an autonomous pledge. On the other hand, the operation of banking supervision ensures that the kind of bubbles which the Member is afraid of cannot develop and which caused the crisis in the US market in the 2008-2009s. But these are not even typical in Europe. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-07-239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10530. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-240	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10530 on the 2nd of June 2016. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment contains a three-point proposal from the Committee on Sustainable Development and further clarifications from the Legislative Committee. As the Secretary of State pointed out at the committee meeting, the bill tabled is for both bureaucracy reduction and prevention of waste generation. At a number of points in the field of production, in particular without entering waste status, a number of substances can be declared by-products, thus facilitating the situation of producers and users. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The list of non-participant waste mentioned in the law is also extended by the amendment of the Act. The amendment to point 1 of the amending proposal clarifies, in relation to the asbestos sheet to be deposited, that the exemption concerns building materials with asbestos in the population in order to reduce the burden on citizens. [[20.20]] In addition, point 1 of the summarised amendment facilitates interpretation of the law, including language positioning changes. It shall set a later date for the entry into force of the amendments to the landfill levy, i.e. 1 January 2017 in order to provide more time for implementation. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-07-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Vejkey's information and report revealed, the Legislative Committee actually confirmed, restored the intention of its author, and therefore the proposals submitted by Mr Zsolt Szabó and supported by the Committee on Sustainable Development will be removed from the bill, and the original intention to facilitate the elimination of waste status in the world of production will be restored, so we can declare the materials produced in addition to the product as by-product and thus reduce the amount of waste generated. We also consider it important to clarify that we do not want to burden communal landfills with industrial asbestos waste, but we want to limit this possibility, the possibility of free unloading to asbestos waste generated by the population. However, I believe that the delay in entry into force of about three months in respect of the deposit contribution will not undermine the objectives of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-07-243	Thank you very much. This means that if, at the end of the day, Mr Secretary of State still wishes to speak as rapporteur, he has roughly eight minutes. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Committee for Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. As the first speaker, Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2016-06-07-244	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Now it's really like the 126th part of a series. We've been standing here for the third year, and we're in the 26th amendment on the waste law, and now we're simplifying, clarifying, improving language space, we just modified the same law just a week ago. If you were to work a little more accurately or think more carefully, you might not need to amend the Waste Act every week, and perhaps you wouldn't otherwise have a law that we do change to twenty-six times in three years, which, however you look at it, is not a good job in terms of legislation. But if there were only problems from this side! Mr. Secretary of State always tells us not to frighten you by falling for public services. Just a day ago, one of the Northern Pest county public service providers announced that they could no longer do this work, and from now on in 33 settlements, disaster control will have to carry out the shipments of waste, which we believe is not just a scare, but you have actually managed to push these public service companies to the point where they slowly and slowly give up their work. This huge mammoth company has been established, which is the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd., who will continue to operate perfectly as an account manufacturer, because no one else will have much to do. What's going on is that the public service will continue to do their job, take the trash away, only from now on, the money will be paid to the holding company, and he will not pass on the total amount to the public services, but he will put one fifth of it away for operating expenses. So far, the only performance we've seen from this holding is that it spent tens of millions of forints for months alone and exclusively on salaries, without any other performance, has not started in public procurements, has not bought any tools, but we don't know on which printer the invoices will be issued otherwise. I'm sure it will be through the prize collector, which his fellow State Secretary has already confirmed, that we can probably expect to be billing through them. Only then, what is the need for this mammoth company, besides providing new jobs, has created another mammoth company for friends and acquaintances. It is only because the waste management system is not working well, and it will no longer work well until they are willing to consider this whole system and establish a waste management system that is sustainable, which is good for the population, municipalities and everyone who cares about this issue. I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that environmental protection is important to him, and he is trying to fight within the government from this side, but still this waste law is becoming more and more harsh that we amend, clarify, improve language space once a week, but nonetheless, it is still inadequate for companies, company managers and workers who want to do this with honor and honor. It'd be a lot easier, it's summer, sit down with them, talk to them, and hear what they're saying, because if they hear it, they might be able to create a law that works and is sustainable. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-245	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is next, Jobbik.
u2016-06-07-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, this waste law cannot be called concrete, since it has been modified by more than two dozen since it was born. This can result from the rapid change of circumstances and the adaptation of legislation to changing circumstances and, of course, from inadequate codification work or legislation. However, let's face it, there are plenty of examples of the latter, as there are a number of laws coming out in such a way as to correct spelling errors in the summary amendment, including grammatical and grammatical errors, but many of them involve substantive changes, even at the last moment. As is the case now with regard to the disposal of asbestos-containing waste of building materials, there has been an exposure to the public in relation to its non-taxation, which is very right, since it is clearly not intended for undertakings producing asbestos-containing waste to be able to dispose of their waste in all amounts free of charge. Of course, the conditions for these types of waste to be placed must be resolved. Otherwise, if the aim is to ensure that Hungary's public building, let's say asbestos removal, would not be wrong to extend the tax exemption to other categories of asbestos-containing waste materials or to other activities. After all, not only during the demolition of residential buildings, but also during the demolition of office buildings, industrial plants and halls, these wastes are produced in large quantities, and there is no aim to end up on the trenches or on the edge of the forest. Obviously, there is a much stricter system of records for a company that deals with waste management in the framework of an organised activity, and it has to account for some level of waste that it takes over for treatment, but unfortunately, we see in Hungary how this works or can be maintained today. In many cases, asbestos-containing waste is mixed into ordinary construction and demolition waste and is also not tested as hazardous waste in various landfills, whether placed in abandoned pits or other landfills. This is a problem because if it is not properly covered and it is possible to pollinate, it is extremely dangerous for health. Therefore, further steps are needed in relation to asbestos-containing waste, since over the next decades - and I think I can safely say decades - the demolition of buildings containing asbestos-containing insulating materials or roofing materials is expected to be completed completely. Wastes of this kind will continue to be generated and should therefore be properly disposed of and properly disposed of in landfills with adequate technical protection. [[20.30]] I would not go into the problem of public service companies because, on the one hand, hours could be talked about, and, on the other hand, we are discussing the amendment of this bill here in Parliament before the final vote, and I do not want to abuse the time of my fellow Members. The fact is that if we had a waste management law or if the regulation of the waste management sector itself - I am thinking of not only this one law - would have been appropriate, then this situation could not have come up, but we have already debated quite a lot here in this House whether the current domestic waste management system is good or not. Obviously, if it were good, it wouldn't have to be so much modified. With these amendments, which have now been included for the twenty-sixth time, we can and will support them in the final vote. The problem is conceptual, one amendment will not solve the problem of the entire waste management sector, and it is likely that comprehensive reforms will be needed. For the time being, let us say that the central waste coordination organisation has been established, it does not necessarily have an impact on the solution that, even if it does address certain problems, it seems that the entire reform of the sector is waiting for another government. And then I will conclude with what I started by saying that, together with the clarifications contained in the summary amendment proposal, we will support this amendment in the final vote. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-247	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. The Secretary of State wishes to reflect. Here you go, Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh.
u2016-06-07-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your comments. And I could even make fun of the voice of the congresswoman and say again that this is not about the public service, but because even my fellow members of the government have fallen into this mistake with amendments, I will not do so. But let me reiterate that we have now dealt primarily with waste management in relation to production economic organisations, and this is essentially not related to the public service. Let me give you a practical example of how this legislation will help if it comes into force. The sugar factory produces molasses, which is currently waste under the law in force, so if a farmer wants to buy it and feed it to the animals, he has to change his waste management permit. The sawmill produces chips, and if the brick factory wants to buy them to blend them into the clay to become porous, it has to change the waste management permit. If a luxury car has leftover leather during upholstery and a craftsman wants to buy it, he can't buy it because he has to change his waste management license. This is the problem that we want to solve by allowing the producing company itself to declare these substances unilaterally, with a notification obligation and with the authority's confirmation as by-product. But I could continue the line, because the uncontaminated land that was harvested is now waste, for example, and when a road was built between Two Valleys and Uppers in the middle of the National Park of Őrség, and the land that came out of the cut could not be installed in the charge, there was an unnecessary land, then there was a huge dilemma of how the waste could be placed in a national park. We want to work this out. However, there have been many amendments to the law, but it would have been inevitable now, because there is one element which is intended to harmonise EU legislation, and it is therefore absolutely necessary to amend it. I would like to mention to Mr Lajos Kepli that, indeed, the text of the law lacked this public opinion, but if you have read the detailed explanation, it was clear there. So this was indeed a omission that we have now restored. I would also like to thank you for your contribution and your support, as well as my fellow Members. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2004 Annex XVIII on wine production and wine management. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Representatives of Lajos Kósa, Sándor Font, Zsolt Nyitrai and Sándor Farkas, Fidesz, by T/10688. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, in this case probably Mr Sándor Farkas, if he wishes to speak now. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Yeah. Congressman, please.
u2016-06-07-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a lucky position to amend this law by saying that this law is about two short amendments, which I would like to make very briefly, because this is also at the committee meeting, I could say that it was without debate, in full agreement, but it is good to remember this on such a occasion. What was, of course, the aim of the bill was to increase the competitiveness of domestic producers of grapes and wine, and to increase the efficiency of domestic controls of wine products imported from other Member States, both for wine producers and wine producers. The amendment of the wine law concerned two regulatory areas which need to be changed before harvest in order to ensure the effectiveness of the measures. I could say that this is the last moment, because next week is expected to be the final vote, and the next legislative period is expected to fall on the harvest, so that at the last moment we will be able to establish this law, so to say, in the interests of wine and grape producers. The deadline for administration of the wine authority for the control of wine products imported into Hungary for further processing or presentation has been laid down in a government decree, with the time limit laid down for administration in general by Ket. However, only a longer deadline can be set by law after the amendment. It is necessary to maintain this deadline in order to ensure that wine products that come before Hungarian consumers comply with the legal requirements in all respects. Follow-up of wine products produced from grapes harvested in Hungary will be ensured from grape capital up to presentation. The other amending element is the framework setting out the maximum yield per hectare of grapes for the production of landscape wines. For the sake of more competitive landscape wine production, the representatives of the profession have consistently requested that the upper limit of harvestable production should be higher, in the European Union, that is already the case for advanced wine producers, the regulatory framework. In order to allow a higher yield, it is also necessary to modify the wine regulations and product descriptions concerned, which, in practice, will be implemented by this amendment at 160 hectolitres per hectare. These measures will greatly contribute to the situation of wine producers and wine producers during the 2016 harvest. I trust that my fellow Members will support this amendment, so I trust that this will be a successful law. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-251	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you have 7 minutes if you wish to speak at the end of the debate. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] Secretary V Németh, please.
u2016-06-07-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We also thank the authors for their professionally substantiated, justified proposal, and we thank the Members for their contributions. The aim of all of us is to ensure that this year's harvest can start in a calm and orderly manner, and the amendment of the law serves this purpose. No critical comments were received during the debate on the technical content of the proposal submitted. Then I suggest that the draft be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-253	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. We now have speeches from Members. The first among these will be MEP Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP. Here you go. [[20.40]]
u2016-06-07-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Sándor Farkas said, the bill before us intends to amend the law on grape and wine production on the basis of two main directorial principles. I would like to point out in advance that we agree with both of the two parts of the content, which we have already said in our speech by the lead speaker, because we believe that both are professionally correct, well-founded, and that the bill is indeed serving noble goals. Therefore, as I have already said, we can fully agree with both of them professionally. However, the so-called yellow flat warning on the European Union agenda point has already been mentioned here in the House today, and the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will remain in the final vote because we would like to present a yellow paper to the governing parties and to the government, as we must complain about the fact that this draft legislation is once again presented to the House in the form of a motion for individual representatives. We think that this is a mockery or exploitation of the legislative law, and we think that this is not a proper procedure. We will say this several times when something comes before this House in the form of a motion from individual representatives. Unfortunately, we realize that this is an exercise by the government and the ruling parties, we believe that this is not a good, not an elegant solution. Therefore, as I have said, we fully agree with the content of the bill, and we are also aware that, before the harvest to be started, this is a draft legislation that specifically assists farmers, but we believe that the procedure, as it has been brought before the House again, is that we should once again draw attention to the fact that this is not a saving solution. Therefore, as I said, we will abstain from the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-06-07-255	Thank you. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the presentation. In the general debate, we said that we considered the first part to be particularly desirable and welcome, and we would clearly like it to have supported, in parallel with the amending budgets, the motion that would have given the Nabih more resources to carry out the checks, since it could have been successful at the same time. On the second part of the general debate, I said that we have concerns about whether this increase might not be at the expense of quality. Meanwhile, we have been convinced that this can be done without further ado, because it is not for every wine of high quality, but only for a certain type of wine, and this can improve the competitiveness of the winery on the international market. Accordingly, unlike the general debate, I can announce that we are also in favour of the second part, so the amendment will be supported by our group. At the same time, let me also say that during these consultations we have also learned that many and many other problems have been highlighted in previous demonstrations by winemakers, so that these two amendments, although in the interests of the sector, have many other areas of shortage that need to be addressed in the near future. Obviously, in areas where there is no perfect consensus in wine trade organisations and there is a debate between them, it is much more difficult for the government to find a place to be. However, as an important legislator, if we see the problems and see, let us say, what additional opportunities there would be to strengthen the situation of the Hungarian wine sector, we still need to have a substantive dialogue on them within the framework of Parliament, but at least in the committee or sub-committee of the Member. I would encourage the authors to strengthen this dialogue as soon as possible, because many of the winemakers may also have expressed regulatory shortcomings in other areas, which in many cases are detrimental to them, whether in relation to watering or foreign wine. Mr President, thank you for the floor, our group will support the presentation.
u2016-06-07-257	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The fact is that, as I have mentioned before, we support this proposal, which is forward-looking and in consultation with professional organisations, they also unanimously suggested that we support it. We regret that we have just received this amendment. It would have been better to do this years ago, and I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the vineyards and winemakers who participated in last year's demonstrations - and Jobbik stood by them with a full chest width - I was present at all such movements - have put much more proposals on the table. So I hope that sooner or later they can also come before the House and begin at a much higher rate, at a heightened pace, in order to protect the interests of Hungarian winery and winery. I hope that the Nebih will take advantage of the opportunities it has received more often, and I would also urge that we try to accept this additional support, which I have tabled as an amendment to the budget with my better colleagues, at the last minute. We're aware of some XXI. About the technology of the century, the equipment, the methods that could greatly help the job of the Nebih, its everyday life. So I'm asking the government to create an opportunity to get these, so that we can filter out possible counterfeits more effectively. I also have an amendment that would allow the Hungarian authorities to have more room for manoeuvre in time than foreign wine or wine. I think it might be worth considering. Overall, we are used to suggest such proposals, which I know is not primarily the responsibility of the government, but it would be good to have at least one consultation between the nation states that sooner or later we will be able to get food out of free trade at least at this level. I think that our country would be a great help, we would get rid of this shackle, and then, for example, we would not have to live with such laws and such tricks, but the nation states would be more free to decide their own fate. So, in addition to the weapon and the medicine, let's say that food deserves the status of giving greater freedom to these nations. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-259	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, For decisions to be made on Monday... [[Sándor Farkas indicates that he wishes to speak.]] Yes, but Congressman Wolf at the beginning, his meta-communicative signal was that he didn't, but he got the mood. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes, I just couldn't respond to the comments.]] Well, then, Congressman, as your pointer, please.
u2016-06-07-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to waste anyone's time, I just want to make two little clarifications. One comment is: I have been a Member of Parliament in the Committee on Agriculture since 1998, but there is no other sector of agriculture such as wine and grape management, which would have appeared so many times as an amendment, no matter which government there is. I keep seeing this as a constantly recurring issue, and I don't think it will be resolved in a short time, even if we create a whole new law. My second point is only for my colleague from Sallai: the Gardening Sub-Committee does not deal with grapes and wine, because there is a separate sub-Committee on Grapes, Wine and Pálinka, so the subcommittee that I am driving does not deal with grapes and wine. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-261	Well, we are very sorry for that, but we took note of it, and also of the fact that, at that time, the Member said the closing word as a national. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10524. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-06-07-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 26 May 2016. T/10524. Bill No. 1. [[20.50]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 110/2011 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It adopted it by 24 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstention. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the two-point amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee in the background. Overall, the meaning of the amendment is twofold. On the one hand, it supports Hungarian energy policy efforts and, on the other hand, it also expands the scope of economic diplomacy. Since the Hungarian regulatory model has proved to be an example for members from other countries in many respects, it has not only provided an opportunity to form a unit on the regulatory side in the thinking of energy regulators of organisations acting as members, but also to participate in the various types of development of these associated countries in the field of energy. Consequently, the Government requests that this organisation be supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in the future. With respect, I ask for your support. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-263	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now.
u2016-06-07-264	Mr President, Thank you very much. All I would add to the congressman is that the bill has a double significance. On the one hand, an association established in Hungary, which brings together energy regulators and authorities in the neighbouring countries, is worth treating in another framework, because this allows not only a regulatory and regulatory authority or organisation to appear, but also an opportunity for Hungarian companies who may be involved in energy use as investors. If the bill also receives Parliament's support, then Hungary's scope will be expanded with an economic diplomacy instrument. This is why the government is asking for Parliament's support. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-265	Thank you very much, you have nine minutes and 15 seconds, which you are not obliged to use. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Now, please, would anyone like to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[Nándor Csepreghy indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] who responds quickly and well that he does not want to respond to himself. That's the right thing to do. I will therefore conclude that, after the debate is over, decisions will be taken on Monday's meeting. Thank you very much. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/10525. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the rapporteur for the committee is coming.
u2016-06-07-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10525 at its meeting on 3 June 2016. LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage. Act No.2 and the bill amending certain related laws, and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report by 22 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the two-point amendment proposal of the Committee on Culture and the legislative committee's own amendments, which contain codification clarifications and text-focusing proposals. In view of the fact that no substantive amendment was included in the summarised amendment proposal, there was no technical debate. In agreement with the government's initiative, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-267	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary Csepreghy, please.
u2016-06-07-268	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, It has been nearly a year and a half since the comprehensive amendment of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act adopted at the end of December 2014. According to the government, the law was essentially a good test, but in its application there were minor corrective needs. The regulation must also comply with the strategic direction of government that has been born since then. These include simplification, reduction of red tape or significant changes in construction legislation. The bill before you essentially meets these three requirements, the clarification, simplification of the rules and the alignment with the processes that have started in the relevant areas. The amendment introduces significant innovations in the field of the protection of archaeological heritage and the protection of monuments in order to harmonise cultural heritage and the interests of the economy, reduce the burden on citizens, owners and investors. The legislative amendment further strengthens the effectiveness of coordination for the archaeological preparation of large investments, and we also consider it important to tighten up the regulation of metal finding, the unlawful use of which will be an infringement. The reason for this is that metal-searching tourism is developing in Hungary today. Organized groups travel by bus, essentially in front of archaeologists, robbing archaeological sites in accordance with inadequate professional requirements. With these measures, we want to reduce this situation. National monuments are a significant part of our national cultural heritage. We're assigning new national memorial sites in the bill. We salute the largest Hungarian and his family by selecting the Széchenyi Castle ensemble in Nagycenk. We bow our heads to the heroism of Miklós Zrinyi with the name of the castle of Szigetvár. The location of our thousand-year statehood, the Várhegy and Water City of Esztergom, will also be designated. This shows the government's commitment to preserving our cultural heritage. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-269	Thank you very much. You have seven minutes and 49 seconds. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, please.
u2016-06-07-270	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before us consists of two separate parts. We can support the first part. We have no problem with the fact that the monuments of the Széchenyi Castle, the castle of Szigetvár and the Castle of Esztergom and its Water City are classified as national monuments. However, this is not the point of the proposal, but the destruction of the protection of monuments. Indeed, there are areas where the interests of heritage conservation are faced with the interests of large investments. This dilemma is about what future, what environment we want in Hungary. One where building companies near the government quickly and with huge profits destroy monuments, our cultural and environmental heritage, or where future investments are built in this regard. Unfortunately, the government seems to be supporting lobbying interests in this proposal against the protection of monuments and heritage. The aim of the proposal is to act as quickly as possible in the planning and execution of the investment, solely in the light of economic interests, overcoming all other aspects which would otherwise be justified standing alone, but only now the suffering party, and many will regret it in the future. Heritage conservation and archaeology play a specific role in Hungary. Hungary is a country rich in archaeological and cultural assets. Therefore, it is extremely important to pay due attention to heritage protection in the case of any works. Unfortunately, with this proposal, the government will cease the role of archaeology in Hungary, and nothing will guarantee quality exploration. Let me get this straight. We agree with the part of the amendment of the law about national memorial sites, but not with the essential part, but with the destruction of heritage protection. I ask you to consider the non-voting before, with a pen stroke, a number of national values are condemned to destruction in Hungary. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-271	Congressman Ikotity, LMP!
u2016-06-07-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is, in effect, the continuation of a campaign for the protection of heritage in the robe of bureaucracy reduction. The elimination of the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Service Centre is an excellent excuse to reduce the level of cultural heritage conservation. That is why the legislation is being rewritten. [[21.00]] The LMP criticised the termination of the institution already in the context of the red tape reduction programme announced at the beginning of the year, even if we did not agree with its creation at the time. If only the legal gaps resulting from the termination of Forster were to be replaced by this current regulation, it would not be a big step backwards, even if it did not bring about an improvement. Moreover, the bill does not hide the fact that it serves the interests of the large-investor oligarchs, since it shows that the aim of archaeological exploration is to speed up and facilitate the process for the investors. Or: in the construction phase, the completion of investments requiring serious preparation should not be hampered by the unexpected emergence of previously unexplored archaeological heritage. Stunning words in a cultural heritage law. This is also the case when it is proposed that, in the case of investments that are priority to the national economy, legislative requirements should be more widely deviated than they are at the moment. It's hard to find words for that. By putting words like that into it, how do you think they're serious about all this? Of course, this proposal, like most proposals, has a positive side. For example, the use of the metal finder's instrument mentioned by the Secretary of State, which is declared illegal, will be considered an infringement in the future. We can agree with that, because they have indeed caused enormous damage to these instruments over the last decade, especially since goods are decreasing and increasing numbers of people who are less and less competent are using them. In the same way, the summarised amendment also includes in the salad law that the Várhegy and Víziváros of Esztergom will win the title of the national memorial site. The justification is that this location is worthy of the title, and we do not deny it. Only the procedure itself is not worthy of the location in Esztergom, trying to push the change through with the last-minute amendment of a pick-up salad law. Did someone really think at the last minute that they needed to expand their national memorial sites? Who and how did you think of that? Why are these changes being tabled after inadequate preparation? I also missed the fact that the Széchenyi Castle and the Castle of Szigetvár will be a national memorial place. We agree with these, of course. The change in the other summarised amendment concerns the division of tasks between the heritage body and the regional and county museums in its collection area. To date, it seems that a stable system has not been established, and the institutions are being packed around the system rather than fundamentally redesigning the system, stepping back from centralisation, and refocusing professional principles and real heritage protection aspects over the interests of large investors. Another shopping mall, another stadium, another facility is more important than our underground and unearthed cultural heritage. It's not more important, but it's the only aspect now. We have spoken to several experts who, according to the current amendment, compared the status of heritage conservation directly to the ten plagues in Egypt, and this summarised amendment does not change anything at all. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-273	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please. You have seven minutes and 40 seconds.
u2016-06-07-274	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I thank the opposition representatives for their support. And with regard to critics, allow me to make two suggestions. You are in a comfortable position to change your views on a subject even though you have taken a different position on another matter, but on the same subject. For example, when we talked about the speed of the use of development resources, the government was asked why it did not remove all obstacles to the rapid and efficient use of development resources. The government has reviewed all such cases. Among other things, in the case of works, there is undoubtedly a serious debate on how and how archaeological procedures should be financed and time-consuming. In order to address this issue properly, the government has allocated, on the one hand, in all public investments, the financial resources that should finance archaeological explorations and, on the other hand, indeed set a time frame for providing archaeological explorations, which can indeed guarantee a rapid pace of proper professional work and not hinder investments which, where appropriate, have an important impact on job creation or local economic development. Allow the government to speak with actions instead of plans or visions in the future. It is worth noting that since 1990, so since the regime change, there have not been as many cultural heritage renovations in Hungary as there have been since 2010. For example, in the case of Budapest, it is enough to see the Castle Garden Bazaar, which has basically rotted for decades, and now what it looks like, or other capital and rural investments that justify the government's commitment to the preservation of cultural built heritage, but is also committed to the development that provides a perspective for each settlement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-275	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain spatial planning laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/10531. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The position of the Legislative Committee will come first in the debate. I give the floor once again to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-06-07-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 June 2016 the T/10531 on the amendment of certain spatial planning laws. The Committee presented 23 amendments and a summary report with 2 non-voting and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains only seven-point legal and linguistic specifications of the Economic Committee. The aim of the bill remains to ensure consistency between spatial planning plans and to ensure the enforcement of territorial interests and peculiarities by increasing the territorial planning and planning autonomy of county municipalities. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-277	Thank you, too. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches are coming. There's no way for a two-minute debate. Member Gábor Harangozó, MSZP, among the speakers announced, has the floor. Here.
u2016-06-07-278	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I think it is quite a shame that there has been no amendment to the debate on this law. This bill was presented together with the budget, and clearly it was intended that, in the midst of the budgetary debates, no one would notice the amazing amendment that was formulated in this bill. It is nothing more than the fact that this proposal allows the whole shoreline of Lake Balaton to be destroyed. I did not see in the TAB or other committees that the representatives of the shore of Lake Balaton, representing their own voters, participated in the debate and protested at hand and foot against the possibility of doing so. Unfortunately, I do not see tonight that even one of my fellow Members on the shore of Balaton would object to this law. [[21.10]] Is it just because you might find business or interest in this proposal? What are we talking about here? The point is that the guarantee provisions on shoreline regulation are simply abolished from the law. The rules that have been listed in a piece, taxatically, what should be taken into account in the coastal management plan, how to prepare them, so that they cannot be specifically subject to investor intentions and interests, the aspects of the local population and the environment, the needs of future generations, to keep Lake Balaton, to ignore the compliance with future generations. Now, this amendment simply abolishes these guarantee rules one by one and then entrusts them to the Ministry, after there is no Ministry of Environment, to the Ministry of Agriculture to regulate them by decree. I fear that the aim of this is to favour the water world in the first place, that if something needs to be touched there on the shore of Lake Balaton, it can be done without any restrictions. It's just, unfortunately, I have to say, I think things are going a lot further than that. After all, camping around Lake Balaton, for example, has long existed in an ancient environment where investors appeared, buy up the campsite, and build residential properties or holiday estates directly on the beach. Because there is no regulation that would have forbidden it, and they already have the information that this will not be included in the government decree, because investors are coming and buying them up. Ancient trees can easily be cut down, for there is no law in place to forbid it. However, you would have an obligation to touch the Balaton Act, as the Constitutional Court has stipulated that 30% of the inland coast should be subject to free access. Dear fellow Members, So they should not destroy and subject business considerations to existing free stretches of shore or even camping areas, they should buy, acquire a lot of real estate so that they can get access to the Lake Balaton, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Today, the lake of Lake Balaton in a lot of settlements seems to be inaccessible to ordinary people on Lake Balaton, because there are huge castles and palaces on the waterfront. By the way, you can't see a piece of people all year round in these. Perhaps in the 2-3 month season, the owners will appear for example in the large holiday villas around Siófok for 3-4 days. By the way, no one visits them all year. Of course, they are very proud that they have hundreds of millions of HUF property on Lake Balaton, and must have been an excellent investment. But in the meantime, from the resorts in the area, people can get down to the waterfront by having a small, narrow exit at the end of the road, just enough for one person, where they can go into the water nicely and in a row of geese. After a long walk in there, for example on the coast of Siófok, you can take that narrow little beach for a long time. Besides, there are miles of luxury resorts where people don't get into. Dear fellow Members, It's not okay. This is why AB has made the decision, for example, to change this, to acquire real estate and to give people access at least 30 percent of the inland coastal areas. Well, somehow, that's not part of the law. However, it contains, for example, the fact that the requirements of the Waterfront Rehabilitation Plan can be ignored for priority investments. Therefore, if something is classified as a priority investment, not even the remaining legislation that has been adopted so far and would have been semi-mandatory, it should not have been taken into account now. I say that it is semi-mandatory, because unfortunately, the experience that, in recent times, even though there has been a legal obligation, many times these standards have been ignored. And instead of transforming the regulation here in such a way that these otherwise important regulations can be enforced, they are simply abolished. Just to give you an example, this was the case when a giant t-shirt was built in Balatonfenyves in the lake 500 meters deep, which, by the way, was prohibited by the Lake Balaton Act, since the remaining structure could not be built into the Balaton Medre. Well, now it won't be punishing them to prevent them from doing this, but simply abolishing the laws that prohibit it and then free to do it. And there is also a gem in this proposal, which is a really cute little scheme, that the 30 percent free access was not included in the law, but it was included in the law in Balatonkarattya, which I'm sure György Matolcsy will be very pleased to see, because his wife became the mayor there. By the way, this settlement has recently become independent, so it could have its first independent mayor as the wife of György Matolcsy. Well, now you can make high-profile investments in this area, because you provided it by law. Dear fellow Members, I think that this proposal, I don't have to go on long, is an absolute shame. This amendment should have been withdrawn. This is what we have proposed with my honourable fellow Member; unfortunately, the Fidesz majority voted against our amendment on this point. After that, you will secure the free robbery, the destruction of Lake Balaton. Shame on you! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-279	Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here.
u2016-06-07-280	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to describe very briefly my party's position on this bill for the protection of the settlement image. By the way, my colleague from the local government spokesperson informed the public about this on Saturday. We think he's using this bill to try and correct the mistake he made last year when he abolished the authority to build a family house of less than 300 square meters. Possibly Other Politics did not agree that local communities were deprived of the opportunity to determine what real estate could be built in their settlements. I would also like to say that the proposal of the Prime Minister's Office on the protection of the settlement image, rather than simplifying the administration, further increases bureaucracy by requiring the municipalities to draw up image manuals. This places further difficulty and additional tasks on the system. We think that the only good solution here is to withdraw the proposal and restore the previous building licensing practice. This way, please. We think it's the right thing to do. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-281	Thank you. Congressman Lajos Kepli is next, Jobbik. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]]
u2016-06-07-282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, said that there is not a single member of the Lake Balaton who would stand up for the interests of Lake Balaton, I felt addressed as a member of the Lake Balaton. I think not only geographically or according to residence, but there is no current representative of the Hungarian Parliament who has spoken more for the sake of Lake Balaton in the last two years in Parliament than I have. By the way, my speech after today's agenda will be precisely that, and a little bit different, not so much spatial planning. But if this issue is already on the agenda, allow me, Mr Secretary, to express my concern at the impact of the present bill on the shore of Lake Balaton. A number of my written questions, my oral questions, and my submissions in various genres have been about the establishment of free coastal promenades, which my fellow Member has just said, when the 30 percent inland coastal stretches are finally met, in terms of accessibility, where a free coastal promenade should or should have been established under the Lake Balaton Act. This will not happen in almost no settlements, and there is even less chance that this will ever happen. We are increasingly seeing the opposite, and the coast is becoming more and more closed. We are now beginning to believe that, according to the latest news, more and more municipalities are forced to pay for their free beaches due to a reduction in the state aid for tourism tax. So even there, they won't be able to get free access to Lake Balaton now or the people who live there. [[21.20]] Campings have been sold and built in in many places, so the lake is becoming more and more surrounded. I also had a number of questions about shoreline regulation: when will the various illegally created bellows, entrances and docks be dismantled, I have already made regular submissions to the Ministry of the Interior on this subject. They always refer to more and more surveys, that when more and more surveys are carried out, they will be able to comment on this, in fact, no substantive action has been taken since then, and the chaos at Lake Balaton is increasing. My fellow Member, who spoke before me, also spoke about Balatonakarattya, which was added to the list of coastal settlements as a new settlement for the Balaton Act. Indeed, György Matolcsy's wife is the mayor, it would not be a problem in itself, the problem is that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank have already started shopping in Balatonakarattya by purchasing the one billion-dollar former MÁV resort. They may be preparing for some high-ranking public investment there, which requires this amendment to be made. You never know, the devil doesn't sleep. In any case, we will be vigilant, especially as it is my constituency, the constituency where I started as a candidate in 2010 and 2014. We will keep an eye on the events on Lake Balaton and there, and we will also monitor the course of life of this bill, and we will certainly speak here in Parliament several times more about when you will fulfill those earlier promises, whether for the shorewalks or for the dismantling of illegal uploads or docks, which have already been made several times, but have never been fulfilled, there are only promises left. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-283	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, please. Secretary Csepreghy has the floor.
u2016-06-07-284	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow them to respond only in a few points, first to Mr Bellozó, to whom I would say that the Balaton protection zone remains, and even rises to the law. Two, this story guarantees the integrity of the 30-metre band. Three: before extending the Member's enormous nationalisation heat here to the not-so-large group of the entire MSZP, I would like to remind you that between 2002 and 2010, zero, exactly zero forints were spent for the purpose that you now claim on the government that private properties should be expropriated. The Balaton Development Council, which includes local governments in the area, unanimously supported the proposal. I would like to say to Congressman Ikotity that you have mixed up the papers. The item to which you have contributed is the next, not the current one. Finally, how seriously the government takes Lake Balaton: we are implementing a HUF 320 billion development in the area of Lake Balaton by 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Kepli: 600 billion Lőrinc Ripper...]]
u2016-06-07-285	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the protection of the settlement picture and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/10728. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and, as usual, Member Sándor Hadházy will present this to us as a committee rapporteur. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 June 2016 the T/10728 on the protection of the settlement image. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 yes and 5 non-voting votes. The draft amending proposal contains the amendments proposed by the Economic Committee and the legislative committee's own proposal, which clarifies the presentation of the committee in two points. The Legislative Committee identified an external expansion in one point, and therefore, due to the respect of the house rules, it was not supported by the XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan. Amendment to Act No 1. At the same time, the amendment takes into account the text-focusing proposals of the Hungarian Architect's Chamber: it clarifies the rules of liability for the builder; in the absence of a designer or contractor, the deadline for the announcement is also modified compared to the submitted text on the basis of the opinion of the Association of City Rights, from eight to fifteen days. In view of this, it can be said that the aim is to preserve the distinctive and valuable image of the settlements. I respectfully ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-287	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, the Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary Csepreghy says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from the Members, and we do not have a two-minute comment. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask, but I know the answer to what the Secretary of State will say: he wishes to speak now. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] He won. You have the floor, please.
u2016-06-07-288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not to abuse your patience, allow me only to briefly summarize and partially respond to what has already been said, as the question of the importance of the protection of settlements has been mentioned in the previous discussion, and what is it that, after cutting red tape, guarantees that the architectural heritage in Hungary will be something that the current legislative generation can be proud of. On the one hand, in terms of local construction features, settlements are given the opportunity essentially to create a local architectural design manual, which seeks to carry on this historical heritage in a worthy manner. I therefore think that this is a regulation that, in addition to bureaucracy, gives the right guarantees that local architectural features and properly reduced bureaucracy can work together, so that investors' interests are not harmed, and that any guarantee that can truly make us proud, even in decades of reflection, of the architectural works that are currently being created. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-07-289	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the National Farms and Farms of Menes and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T-10730. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion would be presented in the debate, but since the majority position would be said by Mr Révész, who has not yet arrived, the minority opinion and Mr Gögös, who unfortunately has no way of saying it, because he is recovering, we will now waive it. I will ask the author, Secretary of State Csepreghy, if he wishes to speak now after such an introduction.
u2016-06-07-290	Mr. President. Since I took part in the opening debate and we have also made our position known on the TAB, I wish to see only a cure on behalf of the Government, Mr Gőgös.
u2016-06-07-291	Thank you very much. I'll give it to you. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur for the designated Agriculture Committee is Mr Sándor Farkas, who now has three minutes to deliver his opinion. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-292	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Agriculture discussed the amendments and supported them by 7 votes in favour, 4 against. There were four separate proposals, and there was also a summary amendment to the Committee on Agriculture. These proposals were, in a large part, submitted and clarified with the intention of improving the law, so I believe that they are a reassuring solution for each tenant and for the person participating in the auction who had to withdraw from an advanced state, so to speak. This is why it is important that both the law and the amendment determine that, in practice, the land cultivated today will be transferred to the new stud farm, the model economy or the teaching economy after 31 December, and that the amendments that concern the amount of compensation will also be settled safely until then. [[21.30]] I also note that, in the amendment of the law, there was a preamble amendment among the amendments, which clearly strengthens the nobleness of the law, if I may express it in this way, which defines and refers to the period of establishment with which this stud estate was established in 1784. Our intention now is that this stud estate should once again, I can say that on the basis of old traditions, today's modern farming, the economic nature of modern technologies, the idea of education, will function as a fully state-owned economy that will serve as an example and a basis for education in Hungarian agriculture, for Hungarian farmers and, of course, for farmers beyond the border. I am sure that these amendments, following the adoption of the law, will facilitate very quickly and effectively the calming situation in the region that has unfortunately been in this area since 2004. I trust that these today's amendments, in addition to soothing the people who live there, are also a security for everyone, and an opportunity for farmers who cannot start farming in these areas, but who are expected to be able to bid or obtain rent in other areas of the state, to continue farming. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-293	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bellozó, minority opinion in three minutes.
u2016-06-07-294	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Here, opposition representatives were not so pleased with this bill, because then let us be clear about what this is all about. It is about the fact that there was a working stud farm, which, by the way, no one had any complaints about a stud farm. On the other hand, the Fidesz majority decided to beat up this farm and privatize the land from this farm. Then when they realized that this was not going to be good, because they were doing a stupid thing, because 500 jobs and a very serious national value were at risk because of this decision, they decided that they should somehow remedy this situation. In practice, we are now at the point of establishing a new economic company, a public economic company, and this newly created state-owned company will carry on the stud economy. So from whoever did it, they took the land, they gave it to someone, and now they're creating a new company, and the new company can't function without land, so the land had to be taken back quickly from those to whom it was given. This is why you have to bring the law before this House, because otherwise, under the current laws, it would not be possible to do so. However, despite the fact that Fidesz has a good description of what Fidesz thinks of the whole region and how it works in the countryside, that those who do not like it take it away from those who do not like it, they also have serious problems with it, because two-thirds of the law, the Land Traffic Act, for example, provides that when it comes to livestock farming, it is not possible to farm for such an economic company in more than 1800 hectares. This law wants to make it possible for them to farm at 6500 hectares. However, my fellow Members, a fundamental two-thirds law cannot be replaced by a half law. Therefore, this is what you are doing, apart from the fact that the whole thing is as impertinent as it is, a mockery of Parliament and completely ignores the laws you have described. In addition, there is a huge problem even with the amendment that is now being submitted, because they have decided to pay those who belong to the Fidesz moonyard, who did not get to the ground, because they will receive a very large sum of more than 1 billion forints as compensation, so that they did not cut a hoe in these fields, since they would have been in possession of it on 1 January 2017. So so far, they have done nothing in these areas, yet they receive this large sum of compensation. We not only reject this, but also consider it impertinent. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-295	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There are now speeches by Members, and no two-minute comments are possible. Sándor Farkas, Member Fidesz, as a speaker requesting a normal word. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-296	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer a few things to my fellow bells. I don't like to point back because it's not my thing, but I can't do that anymore. I would like to remind the representatives of the Socialist Party what they did in 2004. In 2004, Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates, the country's largest agricultural combinat, its public limited company, were given to a narrow group of investors and sold all of it from hairy to skinny. There were more than 700 people working at the time, and now there are only 430 people working. The most valuable Hungarian-owned seed plant was sold, and the entire drying plant, mixing plant and all storage capacity were sold to this French company. It reminds us, I think, of the time of the change of regime, this French relationship has something to do with it. In addition, practically the majors were sold, only the cattle farm's major remained, the pig farm, poultry farms were sold, the areas in which the horse stock would have been sold. Of course, all these settlements have now been removed from the public sector, all of which have been privately owned. This has narrowed it down to a large extent, and I could also say that this economy has been destroyed. For the remaining workers who work in the stud farm at the moment, we will ensure that they continue to live as a safe workplace in Mezőhegyes, and we will also undertake that people who have worked there until now can continue to work safely in a workplace that will be predictable for everyone. So I think that if we make these arguments now, then I think the MSZP would have no reason to blame it. You'd better be quiet. We're trying to make up for their mistake, which is not easy, and it's not that fast. We also want, of course, to solve agricultural education in the region, not only primary education, professional education, but also to ensure that it works as a higher education school. I think that these are all goals for which it is worth working for all of us, and it would be good for you to think about this in the light of your history, and you would not always interfere in such a story, when I know that, at the moment, the number one leader of today's studry is trying to veto the whole thing through relationships in your enchantment. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-07-297	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP.
u2016-06-07-298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Wolf, I regret to disappoint you that I do not know anything about relations in the area of the regime change. You may, how shall I put it, be much more experienced in this area, so that you may, at some point in the corridor, tell me about the relations around the regime change, how, who and through what connections you have distributed me. I guess I wasn't involved in this, so I don't think I should be the one to blame. If we're going to look into the past, I understand that you're criticizing the privatisation of this herd. It would be very cheap now if I said that, after the privatisation of the twelve public economies, I do not think you have the right to bring this issue to the House. But that's not what I want to deal with. You can look at this, too. [[21.40]] By the way, there was a suggestion that these privatisations, if I remember correctly, were proposed by Jobbik to examine in a committee of inquiry, which we also supported. I would like to see it, too, and whoever is in it, find out who is in it, and it doesn't have to smell and comment at all in the agricultural policy, because I really think the whole country is sick of the fact that businessmen dressed in politicians have spread the country, and indeed, if such things have happened, then they must be revealed and it must be impossible for this to happen again. However, this is not about that, but it is about me knowing very well that my fellow Member Farkas is trying to save the very messed-up situation, and what they have put together now can be working, and we are glad that the 500 jobs will eventually remain and that the stud property will remain, I am not trying to drill the project, I just want everyone to see that what is happening in this country, what you and your colleagues have done in this matter, is unacceptable. After all, because of Fidesz's power interests, this farm was carried away, and when experts like you told me that you were doing something stupid because you couldn't beat it up, it's a national value that should be preserved, then thank God, the Fidesz agro-lobby managed to get it back here somehow, and yet this farm is saved. So far, the story would be fine. I'm just gonna say it again, what you put in front of this House, it's unconstitutional. Two thirds of a fundamental law cannot be regulated by a half law. Today, we voted on such a fundamental issue, when they realized that the abuse of land law, which is otherwise outrageous, could be prevented by touching the law, but they also submitted a half law, and they found that it could not be regulated by a half law, because if we want to touch it, then it can only be amended by a two-thirds fundamental law. That's what's happening here. If that was the point, then here, my honourable fellow Member, it is not possible to explain why we should not have the cornerstone. Article P (2) of the Fundamental Law lists what needs to be regulated in a fundamental way, and for example, this can only be regulated in a fundamental way, which cannot be replaced by a half-law. By the way, they went much further, as far as the constitutional violation is concerned, because the stud estates are actually a model farm, and I would like to take a detour here. This whole model economy story, I think, is the chimborasso of everything that you do here in this area, because what is it about? It was also written in Article P (2) of the Constitution that integrations should be regulated - not literally, but in substance - and the holding, so that what is small, medium, large, these rules should be introduced into a fundamental law. So land traffic, integration and the holding must be introduced in a fundamental law. These three can only be interpreted together as to what kind of agriculture you want to operate. The earth's traffic has been brought in; integration has not been brought in, nor the farm, so they can arbitraryly say that it is small, it is big, we destroy it, we give it to it, without any legal authority. This is unacceptable, on the one hand. On the other hand, we are talking about an integration, which is very important, and there must be integrations, because the Hungarian agriculture was always strong when it was strong, because its competitive, export-capable economic part worked in integration with the small ones and with the one-on-one income-producing properties. It is natural that we should absolutely introduce the law that corrects this, how it can work, because in Hungary we can say that we want to base it on small and medium-sized family farms, so that much more people have a livelihood, predictable safety in villages, rural Hungary, only until we put the legal conditions on the table, they will not be viable, they will not be competitive, let us say, with the Dutch rival, the Dutch dairy family farm where 10 million Dutch dairy cattle are kept in one cooperative by the otherwise family farmers. If we want this to be possible for a living in Hungary, then the legal conditions must be laid down. Now, you're not bringing this in, but you're using this case in the gang war. When Lajos Simicska lost the support of Viktor Orbán after G-day, the lands were immediately sold out from under him, while the lands were announced from Sándor Csányi at the same time, but then, obviously, Mr Lázár made peace with Sándor Csányi, or Mr Orbán made peace with Sándor Csányi, they withdrew these announcements, but they were no longer sold; but at one point they were described in a ministerial decree, more precisely in a government decision, what integration could be, and then in a ministerial decree they announced that the farms of Csányi interest were a model economy, and that stud farms were a model economy. But what is this, honourable fellow Members? They write in the Constitution that a fundamental law must be introduced here before the House, and they do not bring in the cardinal law, but they say in a government resolution and in a ministerial decree that, now, if you agree with us, you can manage at 40,000 hectares, you don't have restrictive laws that apply to you who opposes us, and we take everything away from you? ! Dear fellow Members, It's not a mafia, it's a country, it can't be operated like this! And this is a parliament, here, if rules are laid down, in accordance with the rules laid down in Parliament, so if it is written in the Fundamental Law adopted by itself that this must be governed by a fundamental law, then that fundamental law must be introduced. And it would be nice if we could finally get a clean start on this, because today it's basically that you talk about small and medium-sized family farmers, talk about agricultural prosperity and rural jobs, and then instead what we see is that practically a new feudal large-owner system is being built, only those you choose can get the land, see Lőrinc Mészáros and his surroundings, or even this case here. That's no way to run a country, fellow Members. And once again, Congressman Farkas, I know you want to save the herd, and I do not dispute your good intentions, and I respect that you will try and beat it through this counterwind created by your own political fellow Members, and I hope that you will succeed - just do it constitutionally. This is unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-299	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Secretary Csepreghy wishes to reflect. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-300	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Allow me to make only four statements. On the one hand, it is gratifying that everyone from the opposition to the ruling party recognises that the original sin in the case of Mezőhegyes was a privatisation managed by the MSZP. It is also gratifying that there is a consensus from MSZP to the Fidesz-KDNP fraction that the stud estate should be reorganized, because there is a real need for an orderly farming, which relies on the operation of previous stud estates with historical traditions, which have local economic organization power, creates and maintains hundreds of new jobs. I see that the fundamental debate is about form, so how it is done, but the government cannot expect the opposition to agree with anything it says in terms of form. However, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Bellozó: the fact that you often say names or names out loud does not make your theory behind it true. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-07-301	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Representatives of Péter Harrach and Imre Vejkey, KDNP, by T/10721. The Commission's non-autonomous texts submitted to and received by the Commission are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here. [[21.50]]
u2016-06-07-302	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 2 June 2016, the members held a debate on XX. T/10721. About bill No. 1. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It adopted an amendment and a summary report by 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the Economic Committee's single-point amendment proposal, which clarifies and defines the scope of services that can be provided to companies belonging to the group under centralised control. I'd like your support, please. Thank you for listening.
u2016-06-07-303	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, as well as the Member, Mr Vejkey, who is present, if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] He wants to tell me. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-304	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure a high quality, transparent and cost-effective performance of the MFB's public interest tasks and activities, and in the interests of sound management of public assets, it is necessary to coordinate and manage the operation and management of certain companies within its competence and to establish and strengthen control over them in order to increase efficiency and the quality of services. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the one hand, the amendment of the law contributes to the creation of a strong MFB group, capable of integrating development policy objectives, tasks and effective solutions beyond the professional care of its core business. On the other hand, the amendment also contributes to the fact that MFB Zrt. Its tasks should be complemented by the financial financing of church legal persons. Please support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-07-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask you, on the part of the government, if the Secretary of State wishes to speak. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. No two-minute comments are possible. Congressman Tamás László has spoken, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company The general debate on the bill amending law took place on 25 May. No amendments were tabled to the proposal, but only the Economic Committee expressed its intention to change at its meeting on 31 May. Basically, the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate submitted contains only minor clarifications. It therefore sets out the scope of services that can be provided to the group of companies subject to centralised control. The Legislative Committee also supported the motion at its meeting on 2 June, so that the above amendments would be incorporated into the bill in the event of the adoption of the summarised amendment. I believe that the expansion of the tasks of the Hungarian Development Bank in this direction will mean more efficient operation and transparency for the organisation and the member companies. I ask you to support this proposal in the vote next week. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-07-307	Thank you very much. Imre Vejkey, the representative of KDNP, will be the speaker. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-308	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Please support the bill. The Parliamentary Group of the authors and the KDNP supports it. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-309	Thank you very much. It was intense. Does anyone wish to make use of the opportunity to speak on the remaining time frame? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask Congressman Vejkey if he wishes to reflect on behalf of the authors.
u2016-06-07-310	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. In view of the fact that there was no debate, there seems to be a consensus. Thank you for your support from the opposition and for the support of Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you.
u2016-06-07-311	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. Your decisions, I'll inform you, will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First among these, I give the floor to János Fuzik, a Slovak ethnic advocate:. Self-singed and sung? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vaseny Pan Predseda! Vasenna Národné zhromazdenie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 12 April, on the memorial day of those displaced from the Highlands, we once again summoned the tragic fate of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who were expelled from their homeland during the Czechoslovak-Hungarian population exchange. It was 70 years ago. More informed public opinion also knows that according to the agreement signed on 27 February 1946, Czechoslovakia was forced to relocate as many Hungarians as Hungary's Slovak volunteers to Hungary. That's basically true. Since I am somewhat familiar with the Slovak Hungarians II. After World War II, I have made several documentary films about the years of the demise, and I do not wish to make an equal signal between forced and voluntary relocation. But the devil also lives in the details. How could it be that, in the three months stipulated in the Convention, 95 421 Slovaks in Hungary voluntarily signed up for relocation without even thinking about it? The aim of the Czechoslovak policy was clear and clear, and the Košice government programme had already foreseen it: to get rid of the Hungarians after the Germans. Since the number of Slovaks in Hungary was also estimated at half a million, it seemed obvious that the forced exchange was a solution. The Czechoslovak Resettlement Committee began to operate in Budapest in early March under the protective wing of the Allied Audit Committee of the winning Great Powers, which led to a propaganda campaign to the unsuspecting Hungarian Slovaks that this country had never seen before. In three months there were 277 people's meetings in 133 settlements, the 266 programmes of the Hungarian Radio spoke to them, 60 concerts were held, 490 thousand brochures, 540 thousand leaflets and 790 thousand newspapers. President of the Republic Eduard Beneš called on the Slovaks, politicians of the highest rank in Slovakia, and ecclesiastical dignitaries appeared at the assembly. And what did our Slovaks hear about them? A few quotes. After a thousand years of Hungarian oppression, you will have freedom, the hugging arm of the Slovak homeland, the expansion of Slovak language and culture! Slovakia is the promised land, Hungary belongs to blacksmiths and speculators. Czechoslovakia is a winning state, Hungary is out of the war as a loser, is in ruins, inflation is making a world record, and even has to pay for war compensation. The Czechoslovak government will bring the relatives of the relocations back from the Soviet Union's prison camps and work camps. If you do not relocate now with all your belongings, the Hungarians will soon drive you away with a 25-pound bag as well as the Germans. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, that's how the shambles and intimidated 95 thousand Hungarian Slovak volunteers signed up. The result was, of course, a great disappointment for the Czechoslovak authorities, and a thousand trials for the subscribers until after a good ten months, in April 1947, the wagons started from both sides. By then, one in five sign-ups withdrew, leaving a total of 73 273 Slovak residents in Czechoslovakia. A lot of people were disappointed there. They were sent to Hungarian villages, to the ports of the Hungarians deported. [[22.00]] And they are, of course, in place of the resettled Slovaks and the displaced Germans in Hungary. In the mid-1990s I filmed in Sládkovičovo - Diószzeg - with a resettled family, where the grandmother who was no longer living at the time learned Hungarian from the neighbors in South Slovakia. At some time back home, in Pitvaros, the Slovaks from South Lowland did not need this for 60 years. The Slovaks of Carpashuta near Miskolc were still in cubul. They're not on the other side of the border, they're 800 kilometers away. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After the Germans were expelled, it was empty in Sudeta. And what remained after the relocations in Hungary? Broken Slovak families, broken village communities and a broken nationality that never recovered from this voluntary relocation. Dakujem za pocornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-07-313	Thank you very much. Mr. Lajos Kepli, Member of the Parliament, Jobbik:. The beginning of the season - a situation picture of the shore of the Hungarian sea. Here you go.
u2016-06-07-314	Thank you very much. Mr. President. My fellow Member, my fellow Members, - if you can still speak plural. Unfortunately, among the walls of Parliament, we are very few Members who would be concerned about the fate of one of our greatest national treasures, the Balaton, or would speak out here in the walls of the house. I am one of these Members, and I think I can tell you, and I have already said on an earlier agenda that I consider myself the most speaking Member for the benefit of Lake Balaton. My fellow members of the Government often express their achievements, but unfortunately they are just words, and in most cases reality does not meet these words. The speakers often say that everything is well and tourism is developing, we go forward with unbroken momentum and the region of Balaton is developing - unfortunately, the actions do not prove this, and the reality is a little different or very different. After 2014, Balaton reached its last place in 2015 in terms of the growth of guest nights in Hungary's tourist regions, unfortunately this seems to be tendential, and yet they are trying to do this despite the facts, as if it were a great increase or a great achievement. We, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, have been calling for the development of the region since we came to Parliament - unfortunately there has been no progress or initiative on the part of the government. The 320 billion HUF development package has now been announced for the EU's 2014-2020 development cycle, but it soon turned out that it was a vain fantasy that this would result in investment in tourism development or job creation, as HUF 100 billion in railway development is already in the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros, and they are already saying that southern railway development can only be carried out in unity with the northern coast, so even greater resources are likely to be in the pocket of the same interest. So a good part of the HUF 300 billion has already gone away, without any investment in tourism development or job creation. So once again, the government is wasting a huge opportunity. There are different plans and ideas, and the potential of the Balaton region will not only improve but also deteriorate further. The 2017 draft budget shows that support for municipalities is already decreasing after income from tourism tax. So far there has been a HUF and a half forint for each forint, this support will be reduced by the government, and yesterday I had already discussed this with Secretary of State Fó Nagy. Then yesterday's news is that MÁV drastically reduces the number of trains leaving Budapest to Tapolca and the northern shore of Lake Balaton by quarter and half. So how do you expect to boost tourism by reducing the number of rail lines, if small families without a car don't get to the shore of Lake Balaton, or at least more complicated to get down to them? Then - and this is now today's news, another knife stab, and a very good example of how the government can give with one hand and take with the other - a typical example of illusion is that they announced that the restaurant VAT will be reduced first to 18 per cent and then 5 per cent from 2018, while there is a proposal among the tax laws that introduces a new tax code for tourism development and tourism development tax, which hits the same layer with which the other hand gave the discount, in Hungarian: they also immediately take back the discount they give in the form of a tax on tourism development and a tax of 4 per cent, after food and drink distribution. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's a typical fidesz solution. There is also a need to say a few words about public security, so that many police officers from the shores of Lake Balaton are also directed to protect the borders. Since the Government did not accept Jobbik's proposal to restore the independent border guard, tourism is a very big cut for the Balaton coastal settlements to give police officers to border services, which is very important, but an extremely heightened period for public security is a period of summer months, and it is obvious that this is not good for public safety and is also not good for tourism. So, unfortunately, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I have to say that the situation is still not rosy, and even if you take it that way, it is getting worse, but we will continue to speak for the sake of Lake Balaton every time it is possible to do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-07-315	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Representative of Jobbik Tibor Bana has applied for a post-meeting speech:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. On the results of his campaign, 16th episode. Here.
u2016-06-07-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are still many opinions and valuable, constructive insights, if any criticism or suggestions coming to us at the time of your hearing your voice! During our campaign. This is a good opportunity for students, young people, who are primarily involved in education, to hear their voices in the context of a genuine national consultation, which is based on actual personal dialogue by Jobbik, unlike the government. I trust that the 15 speeches so far - this is now the 16th floor. - in which we have made known the situation and views of students, reflecting, by the way, the current state of the education system which is not very promising, it draws attention to the fact that, in particular, it is worth listening to, considering the ideas that have been expressed, and thus continuing to reform education. Allow me, too, to help you with this speech - although unfortunately, from the pro-government part, there are quite a few left here in the evening class - to interpret the voice of young people from the party of the Jobbik generation here in the Parliament. Szabolcs, a high school student, draws attention to the maladministration of school meals when he writes: "It is time to withdraw the restrictions on school meals, because it unnecessarily impairs the quality of food. From an obesity point of view, what the student receives in the cafeteria is irrelevant, but the rules currently in force are so bad for the quality and color of the food that it is impossible to eat with it. In fact, I myself met students who complained about the tastelessness of the school menu, and even the salt and sugar were removed from the tables. [[22.10]] Tímea wrote on the experimental textbooks that they are terrible, impossible to learn from. I would add that teachers see it the same way, and they themselves often find it difficult to teach from them. We have said several times: it is time that nationalisation of the textbook service, together with the monopoly situation, should be brought to an end by the government for excellent textbook publishers that have been operating for decades. Dezső would like to require a higher level of formal qualifications when applying to universities only if the university does not conduct its own recruitment process; in this case, a mid-level maturity should be sufficient. Thought to be considered, one thing is certain: not so long ago, many decades ago, the system was much more predictable and just. Daniel is disturbed by the way he wrote: "The schools invest in IT developments that they cannot fully exploit. There is no need to buy new, modern laptops if the old ones work the same way - or sometimes better. At the same time, students are forced to use these tools - for example, a tablet instead of a booklet - when they can't really use them for anything other than information technology lessons. Vera also joins the ranks of them, who wrote: "If you have already introduced everyday physical education, you should also provide the appropriate number of gymnasiums in the schools. Yes, Vera pointed out the point: the problem is not about everyday physical education - most of which they love very much - but that there is no normal equipment, sufficient size or number of gymnasiums available in schools. In other words, the government should provide infrastructure for schools, but unfortunately we see that there is no meaningful intention to do so, as I myself have tabled amendments to the budget, including the renewal of the Arany János School gym in Szentgotthárd, because in this primary school there is no possibility of everyday physical education in merit, but unfortunately, along with the other applications submitted, this was also rejected from the pro-government side. Mr President, Members of Parliament! I think that there are plenty of proposals from what has been said that can and must be built on to correct the education system. I trust you will bear in mind that these comments will be considered. If you hadn't made a note of what you said, or if you hadn't looked at the report, you could have found your voice. Our speeches after the agenda are on the Jobbikit.hu/hallasdahangod page. In addition, you can read Jobbik's programme points, please not only draw on them, but also implement them. And thank the students for their trust and courage, and we continue to encourage them to listen to their voices on this page or through our leaflets, and we will bring them into Parliament as a mouthpiece. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-07-317	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 10:12 p.m.]]
