u2016-03-01-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Dear Parliament, Today, on 1 March, is the Day of Civilian National Security Services, which is the day that democratic national security services were established in 1990. Hungary's Fundamental Law declares that the basic task of the national economy services is to protect Hungary's independence and legal order, and to enforce its national security interests. The security of our country is a national matter, a prerequisite for the preservation of democracy and the creation of national prosperity. Every day, the services work to ensure a calm, safe life for every citizen of the nation, even in the face of increasingly threatening security challenges today. It is well known that the country's national security situation has changed significantly recently, mainly for reasons outside the country, it is sufficient to refer to the threat posed by the Islamic State, terrorist attacks from time to time. As a result, the tasks of national security services have increased considerably. Moreover, action against the country may not only be a threat to it directly, but also to efforts to attack our economic and financial security, against which the services must act with their own specific instruments. Their activities are necessarily not known to the public. They're doing their scouting and counterattacking job if we citizens don't know it. Ladies and gentlemen, This day is therefore a good opportunity to thank the services for their efforts at home and abroad to protect the country's security and constitutional order. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, submitted for a pre-meeting speech:. Product land privatisation: please do not continue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As most of you know, agricultural land privatisation is continuing today, and the experience of which has not even allowed the government to properly screen the effects of the results so far, its socio-economic and agricultural aspects. During yesterday, I was surprised to hear many of Mr Secretary of State's answers, since practically without lying, the slides make it look that way. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Thank you very much. Trust is nice.]] that this is practically an effective and good programme, and this has reached the target group, and this is not the case. As the Secretary of State knows, it is 20-25 thousand hectares of nearly 130,000 hectares that have been sold so far that it has been allocated to a target group for whom this programme was originally set up, small and medium-sized farmers. It is very simple to know how to do so, because, as you know, on the basis of the publicity of sales, it is possible for all buyers to see how they had benefited from the area payment scheme of the Agricultural and Rural Development Office. Those who received subsidies of less than 10 million, can be said to have managed under about 120-130-140 hectares in previous years, so this could be the real target group, which is what the NFA Act is about, and although I disagree with it, the Constitutional Court has sanctioned sales to this target group. As you know perfectly well, as you regularly express your knowledge of this as a lawyer, the NFA Act 15. In particular, it sets out how, for what purpose, these public land can be sold. That's what the two-thirds law gives us. It is a clear fact that the vast majority of areas did not reach this target group, as defined by the NFA Act, not small and medium-sized farmers. But if you do, then I'm asking you to finally say a number in hectares or gold crowns, who you think are small and medium-sized farmers, because I haven't had a chance to hear from your mouth who they call this one in the last year and a half. Because obviously, if you think farmers of 5,000 hectares are small, then I understand their thinking, and since the NFA Act does not define this by quantitative means, it would be good to know with what legal authority you feel is legitimate to sell it. It seems clear that, while the Constitutional Court has said that you are authorised by the NFA Act to carry out sales, it has nevertheless not given the power to sell these lands to a target group that is not defined by the law. It is not authorized by the law that the relatives of their State Secretarys, relatives of ministers, or in particular farmers, who have never been farmers before, children of billionaires, who can now obtain all 296 hectares, 298 hectares, so the maximum purchase price at the same time, to sell land to such people. The NFA Act does not authorize this, and you are aware of that. You're right, Mr. Secretary, when you claim that thousands of farmers have landed. Of course, the results show this, because if you look at those who have received area payments below 10 million in recent years, so an objective assessment shows that they are small and medium-sized farmers, they make up the majority of the winners. There are thousands of such farmers, yes, but they took the smallest part of the land, since they bought from 1.8 hectares to 5.4 hectares, with an average size of 3.4 or 3.8 hectares, and there is no mention of them receiving or having access to this land. No, 20-30,000 hectares are what they bought, all the other target groups that are not defined in the NFA Act, and you continue to do so. I think, as long as they stood here and said on every occasion that they wanted to support small and medium-sized farmers, they may have been able to defend their position from your point of view, but from here on out, they remained defenseless. Clearly, experience shows that you are playing state land for billionaires and politicians, and that is something that must not be continued. Secretary of State, I know that within your wallet, an influential man, I ask you, without answering, go out, call, stop the auctions, call up today's activity and stop this madness, which is one of the biggest peaks in the past 25 years of robbing public property by not being able to do anything about the activities that have the most impact on the countryside in the long term. I am convinced that Hungary will still have a normal government, and I am convinced that there will be a fair government who will review the legality of these sales, and will state that the interests of the seller and the interests of the Hungarian society are significantly damaged here. Please stop the continuation of the land auction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Márton Bitay responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, we do not agree to sell agricultural land to family farms or not, obviously you represent a position - I respect that - you think it is right that we do not do this and sell state land, and we believe that it is important for the agricultural economy, for the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, or even for the preservation of rural areas, that a quantity of only 20% of all agricultural land in Hungary, which remains state-owned and can be sold now... - because there is another part of it, but they are in management of assets, we do not sell them. I think it is very right that we offer this area to family farms and say that at a public auction, so that there is no debate, how much it buys, and under the legal conditions, not in a tendering procedure, but whoever complies with the law and gives most money, can buy this land. And I have repeatedly said that it should not be a subject of debate either, that it is obviously in favour of those who have money in their pockets, so there is an elaborate credit facility that provides a credit line to each customer with a 1.95 percent interest rate up to HUF 300 million, and I think that such a credit facility is not much on the market. [[9.10]] I don't mean to offend you, but I think there are wrong numbers circulating around the system, which you like to repeat. Now I'm just giving you a few examples that you've given me. He says that between 1.4 and 5.8 hectares were the auction winners who bought these areas and family farms. But under three acres, there was no auction. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] There was no auction under three hectares, Mr. President; the state sold its land under three hectares in an individual procedure. But I'll tell you something else: out of 150 acres of land, 10 thousand acres of land were sold. Then what about the others? If this program is good for the greats, how can it be that it is not the other, it is not the larger part that is sold in large bodies? How do you get that math if we've sold 10,000 acres in 150 acres of land? And by the way, in the program, we sold 130,000 acres, so how do you put this together to help the big ones? It just doesn't come out arithmetically. [[Zoltán Gőgös: In the tavern you don't understand, Mr. Secretary of State, at all. It's complicated.]] On average, if a customer bought an estate, to be more precise, he bought an estate, there are more than 2,200 customers who purchase a single piece of property from the auction announcements - I don't directly include the three hectares - from the auction notices. It doesn't come out in the size of the estate or in the number you keep saying. It just doesn't add up. If I look at 38 percent of the customers - again I'm talking about the auction buyers - young farmer, farmer under 40 [[A voice from the benches of MSZP: Mátyás Mészáros! Sallai R. Benedek: Children of Lőrinc Ripper.]] Then I think it's a successful program. And if you compare it to what kind of program it was, what programs it was before, then you can see that there is now, compared to nothing, that they can even buy from state land. So I'd like to ask you not to mix these numbers, because at least let's make sure that those sets come out when they're not exactly, but pretty much come out of those sets that you'd like to project to us. Otherwise, it is incomprehensible that we are political, agricultural or even oppositional in not giving farmers the opportunity to buy state land. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They don't get them.]] We talked about this the same thing yesterday. I do not understand what the political point is that you are suggesting that there may be some form of land tax on these. I do not understand where this will make the nation better, what will make the agricultural economy better, or who will benefit from it if you cannot buy or if you wish to impose a land tax on it. We will continue this sales programme with 140 thousand hectares; now, as you said, the auctions will start on 1 March, these auctions will run until 31 March, and I very much hope that many more will be able to buy. So far, 8,000 people have been shopping. I'm sorry you don't appreciate that. 8,000 customers were able to buy in this program, and I really hope that if we just look at the auctions, we will also be able to go above 10-15 thousand customers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There are 200,000 producers! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the estates below 3 hectares are also similar, we will be able to reach 5-6-8,000 customers. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause in the government's pro-government benches. Zoltán Gőgös: The people will bring him to the referendum. We're taking it back in the referendum. We'll take it back officially. Dr. Márton Bitay: They'll take it back! Let's get him on the record.]]
u2016-03-01-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the next agenda: with a consultation on health. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am sure we can agree that there are several ways to consult. It is possible to consult few people, many people, the profession or, where appropriate, a wider crowd, the laymen, or to consult them in substance or superficially. Jobbik launched or launched national consultations on health, education and corruption in the context of its real national consultation in 2016, in which it can be fully stated that it will consult the profession on the one hand and a wide crowd on the other, and the consultation will be launched. It is important to know that more than 200 organisations, whether professional organisations or scientific workshops, or other civil society initiatives belonging to patient organisations, have been sent all these letters by calling for contact and professional consultation, and Jobbik will continue to consult these representative organisations this week and the previous week. Besides this, it is not only at the negotiating table that we can talk about health problems, but also in places such as institutions, whether it is basic care, outpatient care or inpatient care, which is why Jobbik's representatives - not only parliamentary representatives but also local representatives - have undertaken and will do so, that they will visit as many institutions as possible, as many suppliers as possible, and ask for their opinion on the real, substantive problems that are stressing health. In addition, there are technical discussions and professional discussions in which it is possible to consult not only trade unions, but also patients' organisations. However, you can also see - and this is already outlined from the events of the last few days - that there will surely be issues that are the most acute issues of health care, such as wages. It is worth to dwell here and to say that the wages of health professionals are not only very bad in Hungary, but also extremely low in relation to European and developed states, and what is probably the worst of all is that they are based on purchasing power parities, so how much can they spend and how much can a health worker cover his daily livelihood is a very low level. Many economists have already said and say that there is poverty among health workers, which, by the way, is accompanied by the second problem that has been said in all forums, and that is burnout and the poor mental conditions in which workers work every day. It may be worth considering this because it weakens the relationship between the doctor and the patient, the worker and the patient, if we consider that there is no mutual trust between them, which holds health together, and, if you like, undermines what it is absolutely necessary to work for, namely, the compassionate health care, where, on the one hand, patients are concerned with doctors, workers, but vice versa: the workers are also the patients. But the state itself, the maintainer, is also concerned with the needs of patients, doctors, health workers. However, it will also be a topic, and the question of how much the state will devote as a source to the maintenance of the health system has been raised. It is now a well-known fact and it is quite obvious that, in proportion to GDP, health expenditure in Hungary is not only in the top, but also in the back, and has not been able to make any progress, although the government spends more on these costs overall. But this is still low compared to our economic powers, and it is not worthy of being a XXI. Let's talk about health care in the first century. Of course, there is also an extraordinary way to consult, and this is what the independent health union announced last week where ministers of state and ministers were expected to do voluntary work in health institutions. Unfortunately, the government didn't have a positive reaction to the union. Unlike Jobbik's representatives, they first applied to the union themselves and then in groups, precisely so that they could experience the conditions in health care as part of their own voluntary work. This was not far from Jobbik, because in 2015 in the year of volunteering, all our representatives have completed a voluntary day with social or charitable work every month, so in 2016 we connect the year of volunteering with the real national consultation by day at the health institution and thus Jobbik. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] covers all areas of consultation in health care and will conduct a genuine and meaningful consultation in health care, health organisations and patients alike. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Anyone who is browsing the Internet can also go to the columns of various foreign newspapers. I went up to a link this morning on the independent.ie website, which is an Irish newspaper. Here is an earlier article entitled Even the Norwegian medical elite can only dream of paying the doctors in Ireland. [[9.20]] And if we turn down a little bit in this article, we can also find the statement of the Member. It is worth comparing what you gave to the Irish paper as a statement with what you have just said, although this was already mentioned yesterday. Dr. László Lukács, who represents Doctors Abroad in this article, says that Hungarian doctors are looking for opportunities in other countries, about a thousand doctors leave Hungary every year, and the fact that in the first half of 2012 he only took 62 doctors to Ireland with this company. He proudly reports this to the independent.ie website and obviously to the journalist who asked him. And since you also mention the name of your company, which is a family business, because now, as I understand it, your brother is carrying it, it's obviously also a kind of marketing, which, in the Irish newspaper, represented your company as well. If someone wanted to invite doctors from Hungary to Ireland, this obviously did not happen in the framework of voluntary work, as you just indicated, that Jobbik's representatives volunteered to work a day - which is commendable to all parties - but, I imagine, took out with their company for a large commission, the full name of which is Doctors Abroad Medical, Healthcare Consultant and Service Ltd., doctors. It is probably not by accident that you and your family business had this activity, Mr. Congressman, since the name of the company itself suggests that this company was created to take doctors trained in Hungary abroad, doing this business, generating income, and making sure that you and your family make a living. Then, a few years later, you come into Parliament, and with a sad head, you may even be a little bit off your head about how many doctors are going out of Hungary. But, honourable Member, your family business was created to help doctors abroad to get doctors out of Hungary. You made a living doing this, and it was your income-producing business and your source. Don't be a pain in the ass if you've promoted this. You are also a lawyer, you know the saying that no one can establish a right to self-reliable conduct. If you were trying to get as many doctors as possible to get abroad and set up a business for this, then you should not stand up here in Hungary as a party representative who refers to this as a negative trend. So much for the substance of this thing. As regards consultation and the state of health: Mr honourable Member, I do not think you can say anything about the period from the last decades of Hungarian history when, as a development, renovation, purchase of medical instruments, the modernisation of hospital buildings, the sum of HUF 500 billion has been spent in five years. There was not much time in Hungary when we could spend 500 billion forints in a large government cycle, primarily on community, but partly on national resources to develop hospitals. We did not, Congressman, set up a public company to take Hungarian doctors abroad, as you did in the previous years, but we tried to improve working conditions, because we know that wages, working conditions, the possibility of progress are all things that help Hungarian doctors to stay here, to continue working in Hungary and to see their perspective here. That is why it was important to spend 322 billion on the hospital buildings themselves, and 104 billion on the purchase of medical instruments. This is why it was important that in 2012-2013 we launched a 27-percent wage increase, which was continued in the second half of last year and this year, since after raising the basic wages, the various mobile components - overwork and on-call fees - were also raised. That is why the residency support programme or the specialist scholarship is important, precisely because, after consulting doctors and nurses, we have decided to take these steps, which we will continue in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda on the state of public education. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2016-03-01-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman! Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, In a few hours, we will have a debate day in Parliament, we will talk for several hours, we will discuss the state of our public education. These days of debate have, according to the experience of recent years, been of two kinds. The first kind is when we move one another in a culturally fixed time frame; a lot of things don't come out, and the public has an opinion about it. The other is when the discussion is bored by talking about the subject. This did not increase the authority of the Hungarian Parliament. We, the Socialist Group, are preparing not to pursue this bad tradition. The state of public education in Hungary will be debated on our initiative on the proposal of the trade unions involved in public education. We hope and want it to be really about the point, our children, our students. Because we should agree together, regardless of the faction in which we sit, that education is not to create jobs, we don't even build schools so that parents can clear the walls in the summer, but make schools for the smallest, the next generation, at the highest level, to pass on their knowledge, experience, and raise them in the noble sense of the word. I must say that today, Hungarian public education does not meet these objectives. And to fulfill it, it's worth talking, arguing, bringing up experiences, at the same time showing the way. Of course, the guidance, which I see in this regard, has different opinions in our fractions, must be said about what that means. What we mean by guidance is that legislation performs the task which it is otherwise obliged to do: create a framework and terrain, but it does not have to be the Parliament with its laws, and the government does not, in particular, define every minute of a classroom with its various laws. We prefer to trust the teacher, and we think that autonomy, the freedom that he should have, is the very essence of his profession. We believe that in a classroom the teacher, the teacher, is the best who knows those 20 or a few children, and there is no paragraph, no legislation that could break this relationship. Then it's a good law to facilitate this affair. Then it's a good law on public education when it's about the student. It is good to assume that it is in the best interests of the student, the child, that everything else, professional will, political opinion, is subject to it. That's why we should understand. Of course, understanding is not necessarily the most important among parliamentary factions. We belong to different parties because we have different views on the world. There's nothing special about that. But we should, however, be bound together in such a way that one really is happy to say the word, because the original means that it happens to be national. I say to you that the issue of Hungarian public education must bear the national sign on itself more than a tobacco store. I therefore propose that we try to talk to each other in this debate; this is what we are trying to do. If the forums for professional dialogue were not abolished at a legal level, if the forum named by the Council on Public Education had a decade of history had not been removed from the law, then when there is a problem, when there is a problem, they would not be facing a situation now that they cannot create a truly functioning round table. The profession believes that the round table is not the negotiating forum that has been established. We want all stakeholders to understand each other and this debate day to serve this purpose. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Vice-President, before the agenda, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied. Here you go. [[9.30]]
u2016-03-01-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I think that everyone would be pleased, especially the electors, especially teachers, parents and students, if they could see in Parliament's work that it was going in this and the same direction as what Mr. President said here in his speech before the agenda. After 1 p.m., we will see how the debate day itself, which the opposition parties have initiated, will serve this goal, how much the speeches will include it. If we look at the news of recent times, days, weeks, or the text of the European Commission's country report published at the end of last week, it says that the students' average performance in basic skills was below the EU average, based on the OECD's 2012 PISA survey, not in 2015, but in 2012 and international student performance, and that the proportion of poor performers increased between 2009 and 2012. The impact of the socio-economic background, i.e. the school's location on urban or rural school, on school performance was one of the most significant within the European Union. From this, a content insight, if you like it, criticism, comment, if you like it, is reflected in a survey, which shows that among children, especially 15 years of age, these surveys are being conducted there, the performance that young people have been able to show has been reduced. And what's as alarming as that is, the fact that you were born to determine your performance at school. This is obviously partly a consequence of family circumstances and partly a consequence of school conditions. This survey is sad, but it is also mandatory to act, and this insight showed that what happened earlier in the Hungarian system of public education was not a good way. That road led to a reduction in performance, which led to an increase in social differences. So coming back to this, whether I am looking at the EU survey, whether I am looking at the OECD or looking at sound thinking, is wrong, because that road leads to a slippage from Hungary. So saying that we should go back to where we were before 2010 would definitely follow this slippery path. That's what it means economically. After all, we know that the reason why the municipalities had to implement a gigantic, unprecedented debt consolidation was because the price of government bonds, loans and loans had to be paid from central budgetary sources in the order of almost 1300 billion forints, because the state had previously underfunded institutions, social institutions, health institutions and, above all, we can say, education institutions today. The state didn't give away the money for the school that had to be spent on the school in order to be of the right quality. Therefore, the difference was either replaced by a loan or their schools were closed in 381 places. The fact that there was a huge problem in the system of public education two decades after the change of regime, both in terms of content, based on the OECD survey and financially clear, because schools would not have come or come out of the money they had at their disposal. This is why there was a need for a reform of the content and therefore a change in the system of institution maintenance. We didn't say the same thing in 2010, but we did say the same thing when we thought it was important to enter the state as an operator in the system of public education. The Socialist Party would have done this in part by autumn 2010, and Fidesz-KDNP introduced it a few years later to the general public education system as a whole. Later last year, we also split up the systems of public education and vocational training, as vocational training has to focus more on market needs, and public education has to focus on what you have said here about national public education, I think very well and in previous forums. Therefore, it is important that I look at the whole system of public education in a system, the reduction of the differences that it writes here, not only we say it, but also the Union itself, the OECD, tells me the difference between the performance of children in urban and rural areas. That is why it was important that, with this two and a half years of development difference, not only the child should meet the state for the first time at the age of 6-7, but also to make preschooling mandatory from the age of 3, so that by the time we get there, these differences would be reduced. Our intention was to talk about what we were going to talk about on debate day, to reduce these differences between the parts of the country over the next 8-12 years, and obviously to improve the performance of the country, the students. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Our culture from the KDNP Group in the world and in Hungary, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-01-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As you have heard, I would like to mention, in particular, the Hungarian film on a cultural issue. Come on, the joy is quiet, but we still need to talk about it here. By yesterday, thanks to the broadcast of hundreds of television channels, nearly 1 billion people across the globe could hear, see, read and learn Hungary's name again and bow to our internationally appreciated culture. Yes, he received a serious recognition, and received an Oscar award for László Nemes Jeles' film, the son of Saul, presented last year. We congratulate the artist and the creative team with all our heart. And we are pleased to note that our young director thanked Hungary for its support and success. Oscar is the most prestigious film award in the United States of America, and has been awarded since 1929 by the American Academy of Film Arts and Film Sciences, and has also rewarded the best foreign works for some time. The Hungarian film has now been won in the series, which has already been seen by more than 100,000 viewers in Hungary. The Oscar Gala has been a major event in international cultural life for years and even decades. Of course, there are those who are prying, for example, because politics is falling behind the scenes from time to time. The best known example of this was Marlon Brando, when in 1972 he did not receive the award for Godfather personally, in protesting the treatment of Native Americans. Some people express their opposition to the gala and the awards of business glitter, because of the world's stars entering the 150 - meter - long red carpet in expensive clothing. Regardless of all this, it is a fact of pride that Oscar gives world rank and honors the prized works and nations. And now Hungary is once again on this worldwide plaque of glory. Let us rejoice and be proud of our well-acclaimed Hungarian film culture. As we can be proud of the Hungarians who won the award with Oscar earlier. They deserve to be named here: William S. Darling, Géza Herczeg, Mihály Kertész, director of the world famous Casablanca film, Pál Lukács, György Pál Marczincsák, Miklós Rózsa, Sándor Trauner, József Kiss, Vilmos Zsigmond, Ferenc Rofusz and István Szabó. This list has now been extended to 12 with our fellow countryman, László Nemes Jeles. That is why we are proposing that our cultural policy and potential sponsors now reach even deeper into their pockets and encourage the birth of further masterpieces in every possible way. Hungarian film has always meant quality. Here I mention only one of the many outstanding works, the Károly Makk film, which was screened on one of the television channels in the last few days, which made Sándor Tatay's novel an equal artistic creation. That's because he used it to commemorate Irén Psota, an actor of the nation who died a few days ago. To the dust of peace! It's a pain that a lot of people have already left Team 12. Everywhere we look, we can see that there are favourable winds in Hungarian culture these days. Our refurbished monuments throughout the country, our breeding public statues, the dumping of our publishing, our sold-out theatres and concert halls, the worldlike virtuoso, the Flying, the peacock! But even The Song's series moving crowds, the rising quality of our growing festivals all created cultural value that is Hungary's trademark in the world. [[9.40]] The only way that all of us could have done this was to create the forints needed to support culture, with which the government and its institutions, such as the Film Fund, played a handful of games. Thank you for that, and let's celebrate our success the night before yesterday. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The secretary-general, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, all national and historical success, obviously primarily the success of the creators, but I think there are few cases in Hungary where Népszabadság and Magyar Time bring something with the same title in the same context. [[He'll show you the two cards.]] that national success is something, and the Hungarian Oscar Prize is presented on the front page of both newspapers, and both of them describe it as a clear success. I think we need more of these moments in Hungary, success and consensus, then perhaps we too would wake up a little happier or happier every day - and the ten million people who live here in Hungary. So we have to say that, just like yesterday from this Parliament, and from everywhere else, everyone in Facebook has congratulated the creators, contributors; I think the director, the main character, the actors, the producer, we can only congratulate everyone for putting on the table a performance that has been recognised not only by the Oscar Prize, but also by the Golden Globe Prize or the Cannes Festival Award. I think it is a pride for all of us, and if you allow us, the creators themselves, the director, the actors, then we Hungarians share their success, because they obviously have the performance, but let us also have the pleasure in part, that after the great names that the congresswoman listed - Vilmos Zsigmond, who received an Oscar prize in 78 for photography, cameraman in 78, or Ferenc Rofus, who, after 34 years of waiting, was awarded an animation short film in category A film with air, or perhaps the most well-known film István Szabó Mephisto in 82, which was also awarded an Oscar award in the best foreign film category - again received recognition at the Oscar Award Exhibition. Such positive experiences are good for all of us, whether they are cultural achievements, sports successes, world competitions, world competitions, they all increase Hungary's value, increase its visibility, and I think they can also increase our pride, and rightly so. I think it also shows that the support programme created by the Hungarian National Film Fund, which gave Saul's son 321 million forints for the production, launched the Hungarian film production in the right direction, was the right decision when the government decided to reorganize and rearrange the film funds, since many good, visible and popular works helped the cinema screen, many people could look at them, and it is very good that the National Film Fund noticed this special creation before it was made, and helped it to be created. This was also about concitio sine qua non of the award of the Oscar award after 34 years. I would like to congratulate everyone who has contributed, whether financially or with their work, and we are proud that Hungary has once again achieved such a success. Congratulations to the creators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Szilárd Németh, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda with a title entitled Teachers in the Socialists' Network. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it would also be good, as my fellow Member, István Hiller said, Honourable Parliament, if tomorrow's newspapers were to appear in the same way as in this great film, but I see fewer opportunities for this. I fully agree with what was said by former Minister István Hiller, Vice-President, that it is in the best interests of students at school to understand each other, to engage in dialogue, and that not the educational actors, not the Members of Parliament, nor the educational politicians, are the number one actors in this story, but, yes, I agree, the teachers teaching in the classroom, teachers experimenting at the cathedron, and, of course, the parents who give the warmth and support of the home to their children. That's why I asked you to speak today, so I could light this up from a little different perspective. That is the level of words the Minister has said, but that is not what reality is about. That's not what the teacher protest from two weeks ago convinced me about, and that's not what the strike yesterday convinced me about. From the direction of school, public education, children, parents and educators, it is pointless, divisive and community-destroying, so it is inexplicable to see the direct political action we had in connection with the educational ceremony in Miskolc and the strike yesterday. It was noticeable to everyone that it had direct party political goals, that trade union leaders became the unconventional servers of opposition parties, and that schools were taken hostage by the same trade unions, and that even teachers, parents and children were used as biodecorations for their selfish, power-hungry goals. And nothing's expensive, nothing's sacred. They are just as unscrupulous of children as they are, using underage students irresponsiblely as shields, as illegal immigrants storming Europe. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And there is no difference between the parties on the far left and the parties on the far right. Jobbik walks into schools with DK, MSZP arm in arm, and Dóra Dúró Hiller and István Dúró are brainwashing in canon. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, trade unions' demands for public education are completely inadequate, and they have only direct party policy objectives. However, as opposed to them, we say that in public education, the child comes first in school. The goal of the government and Fidesz-KDNP is for Hungarian students to gain competitive knowledge, for teachers to be honored for their daily work, and for parents to be able to keep their children safe at school. This is why we consider it an important achievement that, with the introduction of the new career model, we have significantly raised the wages of teachers. Teachers can still count on the government, as they have always done. The goal is for teachers to take as much as possible home, so the government is constantly working to raise wages. A primary school teacher has an average salary of 40 percent higher this year than in 2010. There is also a long-awaited development programme in public education, and in recent years we have developed 521 schools. In the future, the government plans to invest significantly further, has allocated more than HUF 210 billion for this purpose, and here is the government decision that has already been issued for 12 purposes and which will launch substantive, infrastructure and chance-building developments with EU funds. And yes, the issue of children is always more important than being used by some to create a political mood. The issue of children is more important than the political upheaval of political parties and politicians moving into school. I think this isn't the beginning of the dialogue, it's the end of something. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that the government created a forum for dialogue with the round table on public education, which, although there were many forums in the past, which obviously focused primarily on employee representation, another part of them focused on a narrower content issue, but such a broad round table involving so many actors was not an example of a form of conciliation. [[Dr. István Hiller:]] After all, it's only one part of the functioning of the public education round table: [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] representatives of eight pages give their views, but the other part is that a total of 100 expert organisations or experts took part in the work in the working groups before the last week. [[9.50]] Such a wide-ranging consultation - if we look at any previous forums - was not an example, and I think it was not an example at all in Hungary when, in the work of such a wide-ranging working group, together with 100 organisational representatives and experts on 150 issues. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There were indeed many of them!]] work would have been carried out during the coordination of public education. I think that's why the round table will be a good way to solve problems and deliver solutions. After all, in the last two years, we have seen that the same form of cooperation in higher education, where there has been a very large transformation, since the chancellors appeared at universities, has completely transformed farming, because they have been concentrated - the debt of the hospitals and, more specifically, of the universities that maintain hospitals, but do not maintain hospitals, has also fallen to a huge extent, less than half that of the universities' outflow, which was obviously one of the main problems with farming - and this form was served well by the higher education round table. We hope that since we are talking about a proven form, it is not a form of cooperation [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not a form of dialogue that has no results, it's a form that has results. Everyone can see the results and everyone knows the results, and that is why we have also brought to life the round table of public education, which could, of course, deal with certain issues in such a way that they were well prepared, because the pedagogical career system, the pedagogical career has been in operation in Hungary since 2013, so that teachers' wages could rise by 40 percent. Every year, every year, by 32 billion, by 34 billion, there was a year when we spent 120 billion more on teachers' wages than in the previous years, thus increasing the amount of public education resources. Let us not forget that, according to OECD surveys, between 2008 and 2010, the last years of socialist governance spent 11 percent less on education in proportion to GDP; GDP also decreased and the share of education in GDP decreased, so the country's economy also decreased, but compared to that, the framework for education decreased even more rapidly. Obviously, part of that was taking away his 13th month salary to the teachers. Well, compared to that, teachers are fortunately able to farm with an ever-expanding income frame. The number of participants in the round table of public education is not complete, but it is not the government's fault, because the government has called the trade unions, even the association of schools with foundational reservations, and has called many people, some of whom have not participated in this round table of public education. It's hard to understand. Perhaps you know, Congressman, that there was a trade union leader who first demanded a form of dialogue to have a new dialogue between the government and trade unions, between representatives of the sector. The government has announced the establishment of a round table for public education. He then said that it was absolutely necessary for him to be there, and he also proposed items on the agenda to discuss. After that, he got the invitation. After receiving the invitation, he announced that he was not going either, and invited other organizations not to leave. One or two have done enough. When the day of the meeting came, he came to the meeting. At the end of the meeting, he said that there was no taboo, that everything could be discussed, that it was a positive disappointment to him. Then two days later he realized that the meeting was not good, that he practiced self-criticism, as he once did in the previous decades, and said that he was not allowed to participate because he was wrong, and that every man could be wrong, and two days later he realized that what he had said two days earlier about his recent experience was a mistake on his part. Well, it's hard to get everyone to the negotiating table, or if we send invitations, and someone says he's not going to be on this round table because he's in a different form of negotiation. We encourage everyone to choose their representatives, choose their advocates [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Sit down at the public education round table, where we will work out the solutions to these problems together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Next up is the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The submission submitted by our fellow Members Erik Bánki and Roland Mengyi Fidesz T/9380. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I give the floor first in the debate to the legislator, Mr Bánki Erik, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, There is an important proposal before us that changes the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. In particular, it amends the current rules in three areas, which are justified in all three cases, and the bill makes us feel that it will be properly given new, more flexible and more usable rules. Our primary objective with this amendment is to give the central bank the opportunity and the means to protect national interests in the event of danger. More specifically, national interests in this case represent central financial or foreign exchange policy interests. The first regulatory area of the proposal covers an amendment to the regulation on the national bank's administrative procedure. To this end, the draft ensures that the rules of the so-called so-called so-called so-called procedure are not followed, as well as the suspension of the procedure and the possibility of extending the procedure in the course of the approval procedures of the central bank. In the spirit of cutting red tape, the Ket. The Act on Administrative Procedure, which, by the way, has quite rightly reduced procedural deadlines. However, we have faced serious procedural problems in some cases due to short deadlines. In the case of the procedures of the Hungarian National Bank, the deadline of 8 days is strictly short and cannot be kept, therefore the extension of the deadline and the withdrawal of the central bank procedures are justified. - if you have any further questions on the use of this product, please tell your doctor or pharmacist. The second area is the clarification of the situation of foundations and companies managed by the Hungarian National Bank, primarily from a data protection point of view. The task here is to deal with the situation caused by the fact that MNB's companies fall within the scope of the Freedom of Information Act, so that they are also obliged to issue data that could put them at a competitive disadvantage in the event of market operations. Let us not forget that these companies are carrying out open market operations which could benefit other companies operating on the money market. The third area, ladies and gentlemen, is the issue of the remuneration of the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank, which, we believe, is justified also on the basis of EU directives. Based on the management of the central bank so far and on the remuneration of the managers of the European central banks, it is certainly justified and permissible. Now allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express our position on the amendment more thoroughly, in line with the weight of the proposal. As far as the first area is concerned, here is the bill 1 and 2. § 2 of the Act contains rules of procedure which, in general, exclude from all the official proceedings of the National Bank of Hungary the general rules of public administration and the general rules of service of 2004 CXL. Law, i.e. the Ket. the application of certain provisions. As a result of the different procedural rules, the procedure of the Hungarian National Bank would not be applicable afterwards, the pending decision would not be applicable, it would be possible to extend the deadline for administration, to suspend the procedure according to previous regulations, or to set deadlines for the completion of the deficit settlement without the MNB's cap. The Ket. Its relevant provisions entered into force as of 1 January 2016 in the context of the reduction of administrative bureaucracy and were primarily aimed at resolving the administrative procedures for the application within a reasonable period of time and, in general, within a maximum of two months. However, in the case of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, there may be a situation where, as I said, the deadline set in Ket is limited, 8 days or 30 days, which may be extended once for a maximum of 60 days. Let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, when checking and authorising securities issues [[István Tukacs: It's terrible to think about! But insanity from the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: Creepy. Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The applicant shall collect certificates from a number of other authorities. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the central bank must verify as rigorously as possible whether the securities issued comply with the money market requirements. Think back to the broker scandals, where tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian voters were deceived by fictitious papers! [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: True! Matolcsy was supposed to stop that, too!]] However, in this case, it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much did you have in it?]] , 30 plus 30 days may take 4-6 months for such a complicated procedure. This is therefore possible under the new legislation. [[10.00]] There is no further possibility for the Ket. not to suspend procedures in which deficiencies or the attachment of different licences are required in order to enable the authorisation procedure to succeed. According to the current procedure, a large number of applications are expected to be rejected, since the 8-day deadline does not allow these applications to be examined in substance. In such cases, the simplest decision of the authority is not to make a mistake, to reject the request, which could harm the interests of both money market players and citizens interested in Hungarian investment. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to exclude it from the scope of the Act on Administrative Procedure, and the Act on the National Bank of Hungary already sets out which procedures should be applied in exceptional cases. As far as the second area is concerned, my fellow Members, regarding the data of the foundations and companies of the Hungarian National Bank, the following aspects have guided us. As you know, Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law states:, Every organisation that manages the public funds shall be accountable to the public for its management of public funds. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. Data on public funds and national assets are data of general interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the course of the amendment of the proposal, in the light of the above basic legislative provision, we continue to consider as a general rule that the data managed by the company and foundation established by the MNB are covered by the so-called info law and that the 2009 CXXII on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies is subject to the so-called info law. The provisions of law shall prevail. However, due to the constitutional role and tasks of the National Bank of Hungary, we need even more sophisticated regulation. [[István Tukacs: Sure!]] Act on the National Bank of Hungary 162. The rules set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section 4 of the MNB are intended to ensure that, where the company which is majority or wholly owned by the MNB carries out its core or other functions, it treats the data as extended by the MNB, their knowledge is in accordance with the rules on access to the data generated in the performance of the MNB's tasks. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the MNB's data on its core task is not public for 30 years. There may also be a situation where the MNB has a majority or exclusive ownership of a company that may be subject to a breach of central or foreign exchange policy interests. In order to limit the knowledge of such data, the info law provides for an opportunity to use the 27th edition of the Information Act. Paragraph 2 of the Act, but this must be said by law. This is what the current bill does 4. § 162 of the MNB Act. Paragraph 5 of this Article. There may also be cases where the company or its subsidiary, which is majority or wholly owned by the MNB, processes business data whose knowledge by competitors would cause disproportionate damage to the company concerned. The acquisition, exploitation, disclosure or disclosure of such business data would confer an undue advantage on any competitor in the market of a company which is majority or sole owner of the MNB. This situation is dealt with by the MNB Act 162. Paragraph 6 is also a new paragraph. The data managed by the foundations set up by the MNB should also be protected because the Foundation, as a legal person, cannot be subject to a joint assessment with state-owned companies. The legal nature of the Foundation justifies the application of the specific rules of knowledge. It should also be aware that the Foundation manages a dedicated mass of assets. The founder shall not be entitled to ownership rights after the establishment of the Foundation as a legal person or after the acquisition and operation of the assets necessary for the establishment and operation of the Foundation, as opposed, for example, to a state-owned company. Since its establishment, the Foundation will be supervised by the Board or curator for one person as managing director. Therefore, after the foundation is set up, the property is separated to such a extent that the property transferred by the founder loses its public assets. The founder, after handing over the founder's fortune to the foundation, has appointed the curators, has no direct influence on its operation, nor can he recall the curators. The legislator makes a distinction between data according to its relationship with public money, i.e. the property benefit granted by the founder. Thus, what falls within the scope of data relating to the exercise of founding rights remains within the scope of the info law. As a result, the data necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the articles of association or of the Foundation, regarding the performance of the financial benefit entered into in the instrument of incorporation, remain publicly available. The amendment therefore states that the assets transferred by the founder to the foundation set up by the MNB lose its public assets. As a result, the disclosure of these data would not be subject to the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information at a later stage, but would be sufficient to apply public rules on public benefit organisations, which are otherwise more stringent than the general obligation of foundations to communicate information, which is governed by civil law. In relation to data protection issues, we should also remember that since the broker scandal, the control of money market transactions has been in a completely different light, the screening of contaminated paper that may have led to the sale of fictitious paper by certain money market players, causing serious losses to Hungarian society. We therefore consider it very important for the central bank to be able to participate in these operations with active money market instruments. In such operations, as in the case of the operation of Posta, the central bank will have an area of operation where it is particularly important not to comply with the obligation to communicate information, which will put it at a significant disadvantage in the money market. As a result, the effectiveness that we would expect from participating in active money market instruments is being compromised by the obligation to communicate. We therefore believe that data in this area should be explicitly protected. Accordingly, the bill includes amendments to these amendments. I would like to add that the reporting of foundations is even more stringent, as I have just said, because the foundations created by the central bank are transferred to public benefit organisations and public foundations, so they must publish their data annually, in the form of a public benefit report. As it is a combined debate, I note at this point that, as rapporteur, it is T/9380/6, proposed by Congressman Jenő Manninger. I agreed with the request for clarification of the legislative amendment because it states that, in line with the legislative intention, the possibility to refer to information covered by business secrets also covers undertakings managed by the company which is majority or sole owned by the MNB. Finally, I would like to turn briefly to the third package of amendments, which brings about the wage arrangement of the President and the officials of the Central Bank. I would like to point out that the level of wages for managers under the proposal remains lowest at Central European level. Today, the wages of central bank managers are the lowest in Europe's 28 countries. After the increase, the Hungarian central bank president of all European countries will have the lowest salary, so much so that the President of the next Irish central bank will earn 31 percent more than György Matolcsy today. I am not talking about the fact that the salary of the former President of the Central Bank, András Simor, was 60 percent higher in 2009 than now, after the increase, the salary of the President of the Central Bank will be paid by György Matolcsy. The wage is also much lower than the average wage of commercial banks in Hungary, and will be set at a lower rate, since the lowest commercial bank management salary will be 174 percent of the current central bank leader's wage. I would add that this provision also intends to meet the requirements of the European Union for financial independence. We also took into account the increased responsibility arising from the taking-up of the tasks carried out by the PESZF in the payment process when we defined our proposal. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is therefore intended to ensure that the rules of the Hungarian National Bank on the administrative procedure are better consistent with everyday practice and that the central bank's companies are not put at a competitive disadvantage, thus endangering central financial or foreign exchange policy interests. If it is important for you that the central bank is able to serve Hungarian interests more effectively and with appropriate means in the domestic and international financial markets, it can protect Hungarian people from financial abuse like a broker scandal, I ask you to support the bill before you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-01-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, The government supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, among them: Oh! Oh, my gosh.]]
u2016-03-01-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will now be presented. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman. [[10.10]]
u2016-03-01-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that, under the approved exceptional procedure, CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary was discussed by the Legislative Committee yesterday. T/9380. The Commission submitted a legislative proposal and a draft amendment and report with 21 yes and 3 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment only contains the motion of our fellow Member Jenő Manninger, which, with the original regulatory objective in mind, clarifies the legislative intention in line with the objective of the original proposal and extends the possibility of referring to the data covered by the business secret to businesses managed directly or indirectly by the company owned or owned by the majority or exclusively by the Hungarian National Bank. At the committee meeting, the representatives of the Hungarian National Bank also gave a reassuring answer to the constitutional issues raised, which is why I ask you to support the bill, which makes financial market controls more effective, the reporting obligation clear, and the payment of the directors of the Hungarian National Bank competitive. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion in the committee will be presented by two Members, Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Csaba Gyüre. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, There were practically two rounds of debates in the Legislative Committee, and minority opinions were formed in both circles. First of all, the Committee's meeting started with the fact that the President of NAIH practically said, he explained what he had also written in his six-page opinion, which he had sent to the Chairman of the Committee, that, in addition to the fact that the proposal is against the fundamental provisions of the National Property Act, and this is very important because of Mr Bánki's argument, it violates certain provisions of the info law and also violates the principle of legal certainty and division of power, including, in particular, the principle of judicial independence; there is no other constitutional problem with this proposal - this was presented by the President of NAIH at the committee meeting. The opposition representatives have fully agreed with this, myself and we have also put forward further arguments for the position of the President of the NAIH. The President also said that, of course, the concerns about the competitive disadvantage that Mr Bánki expressed could be enforced in a narrow manner in the law, but this full mandate you intend to grant, as regards the impossibility of issuing data, cannot be justified by the argument that you are saying. There has also been a debate on pay, and I will discuss this a little more in my speech. You, Congressman, have made a promise to me, I hope, during the debate you will keep it to say how the salaries of Hungarian nurses, teachers and doctors for the 28 EU Member States stand and what position you are in, because you have argued, perhaps mainly, when you argued in favour of raising the salary of the President of the National Bank that this is the 28th line. Opponents said that this could be the case, in the same way that the salaries of government members and Members are likely to be paid in this line of 28th, but it is possible to raise these salaries after that if, by the way, the salaries of other non-public authorities in the public sector are neither 28th or 27th. So I am very curious about this data from the congressman. It was also significant at the committee's meeting that a total of one pro-government representative spoke, apart from the rapporteur, and he spoke only about the salary, who would not have gone a moment to the constitutional objections expressed by the President of the NAIH and the opposition representatives; he probably did not have enough argument for it. One last sentence to leave the opportunity to speak to Congressman Gyure. Mr Bánki has now tried a rather long argument, ignoring one small thing: that there is a legislative hierarchy. There is a half law under which not only the provisions of the two-thirds law, but also the provisions of the Fundamental Law, so if they are brought into conflict with each other, and now they will end up, if we accept it, then the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the fundamental law must be enforced, as what is now before us is a half amendment. Therefore, all the arguments that you have made are not in their place. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-01-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, you have three minutes. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We basically divided this bill into two parts. On behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we stated in the committee procedure that we could even vote for this legislation if it were to consist of only the first two paragraphs, we also tabled a proposal for amendment with my fellow Members, in which both the 3rd and the 4th paragraphs were adopted. We recommended that you leave the entire section. The first two are professional parts, which deal with an official procedure, so it could be accepted. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: With regard to the section on what they are, my fellow Member Bárándy has already mentioned: payments in particular. When Prime Minister Viktor Orbán expressed his opinion on the salaries that will be made in Hungary under the government of Fidesz-KDNP in 2010, we experienced that they would be limited, that there would be no abnormally high salaries in Hungary. Compared to this, we now see that Fidesz-KDNP has completely dropped this opinion and is setting high incomes. This would not be a problem if there were similar wages in other segments of society, and the wages would rise in a similar way, but it was the government that told us earlier that it was not possible for certain social groups or layers in the public sector to raise wages, because then what would teachers say, what would nurses say, and this should also be proportionate to each other. We can also see that with this law, practically the president of the MNB will bring home a nurse's salary for three and a half years a month, so monthly. It's an incredibly harsh amount of money that we see here with the MNB leaders, so we can't accept that in any way. The other part is the issue of transparency, which makes the management of certain companies and foundations of the MNB completely opaque. What we see is that, unfortunately, under the administration of Fidesz-KDNP, corruption in Hungary has been greatly strengthened. It is no coincidence that our position in the world ranking of corruption, we have moved back to the 50th place, we are among the last states in the European Union, so where corruption is strongest, and during the Orbán government there has been a drop in the world ranking of corruption, with which we are practically in the world's beating place. This is precisely because this situation has developed in Hungary, because unfortunately, legislative proposals are constantly coming before this House, which make transparency virtually impossible, and this legislation is also one that effectively eliminates transparency in the companies of the MNB and its foundations. For this reason, we cannot support this in any way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr István Hollik from the KDNP Group first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear tableds, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic point of KDNP is that it can support any bill that helps the Hungarian National Bank to improve the stability of the financial market and to carry out its own tasks more effectively. [[10.20]] It should also be said that the current central bank management can take advantage of its own opportunities and responsibilities, which, unfortunately, could not be said about previous central bank management. In the former central bank management, we have seen that he was unable to carry out his statutory tasks, to limit inflation, or, in a firm manner, to support government economic policy by artificially keeping the central bank's core interest rate so high. On the other hand, the current central bank management is successful and is able to stabilise the financial market, keep inflation in check and generate profits. The aim of the amending proposal before us is to increase the stability of the financial market, to improve financial market regulation and to make the central bank's supervisory system and toolbox more effective. So what we have to say is that those who oppose it threaten the safe functioning of the banking sector and can help brokers fishing in confusion continue to deceive unsuspecting people and take their money. The amendments concern basically three main areas, as the rapporteur has already said. The first part of the amendments amends the deadline for official procedures. The current legislation, therefore, is the Ket. It provides for an 8-day administrative deadline for the central bank, but we all know that in Hungary, for example, a bank-founding period is 6-10 months, and the 8-day deadline or even 30-day deadline would be impossible in this area. We therefore consider this amendment to be justified, with the aim of providing sufficient administrative time to monitor these money market initiatives, so that no company wishing to enter the money market and possibly be able to fish in confusion can enter the market. We therefore believe that the current amendment is intended to further strengthen financial stability. The second part of the amendment concerns reporting on foundations and companies established by the MNB. In this respect, it is worth looking at the specific legal situation. State assets, national assets, are governed by the Public Finance Act, and it is clear from this that the shares of the MNB - because it is a public limited company, the owner of which is the State - are part of the national assets, but the rules on the exercise of the law relating to shares are already governed by the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. Therefore, it can be said, and this is our view that the shares of the MNB fall within the scope of national assets, but the assets of the MNB or the foundations and companies it establishes cannot be classified as national companies. Here we can also say that it is necessary to clarify the legal situation of foundations founded by the Hungarian National Bank. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Whose money is this, if not public money? Answer that. Whose money is it?]] That is why we can support the current amendment of the law before us, as it proposes that, at the power of the law, these foundations should be considered as ex-lege, without having to examine whether they meet these certification criteria. We know that the founder's responsibility, as my colleague Erik Bánki said, after the foundation was set up, will be separated from the functioning of the Foundation and will be supervised exclusively by the Board of Governors. As a result, the assets transferred lose the nature of the public property, not the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information, but the public rules on public benefit organisations should apply. Thus, the Foundations of the Central Bank receive a public benefit rating, and then they must be certified in their annual report for their public benefit. This is also necessary not only for legal reasons or for clarifying the legal situation, but also for fully practical reasons. I'll give you a specific example: if the foundation were impossible to function, it would not be possible to achieve the intention at the time of its establishment if it had to disclose certain or all of the data. Here is a very specific example: when purchasing a work of national cultural value, if you could get to know the source that could be used for this purpose, it would unduly raise the price of the art. The other part of this amending proposal is the purpose of the formation of majority or exclusive ownership companies of the MNB and the regulation of the money market by active means. In other words, the execution of money market operations by these companies will enable the National Bank to carry out activities in the sphere of competition. In this case, almost exclusively the types of data are generated in the activities that are unquestionedly covered by the business secret. If this information were to be made public, we can say that the stability of the financial market with these regulatory tools could not be continued by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, so, in fact, the Hungarian National Bank could, on the grounds of freedom of information, be at least impossible, which would certainly weaken the strength of the regulation. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to allow, if access to data would cause disproportionate damage to the business activities of the company concerned, the right to access data of general interest should not be given priority, limited to a maximum of 10 years, in order to prevent damage to central, financial or foreign policy interests. The aim is therefore to eliminate the competitive disadvantage resulting from the above. The final part of the amendment will be used to settle the salaries of central bank managers. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame! Shame on you! You're scoundrels! For the record, please enter it.]] I would also like to welcome my fellow opposition Members here. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] some completely public data can also be read. Ewald Nowotny, President of the Austrian National Bank, earns HUF 7 589 072. President of the Slovak Central Bank, Jozef Makúch [[Zoltán Lukács: So what?]] He earns 5 634 821 forints. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Viennese earns more! There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] President of the Belgian national bank [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Zoltán Lukács: You're on a good team! That's where you belong!]] Jan Smets earns 12 293 423 HUF. I could continue the line and look at the salaries of the central bank leaders of the larger EU Member States, such as the payment of HUF 15 million to the head of the British central bank at the UK central bank, and it is clear that this amendment is only intended to bring the salaries of the Hungarian central bank leaders closer to the European average, but it will not even be close to the European average. [[Zoltán Lukács: It serves to steal more! You're stealing again! You're stealing again! There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-01-32	Congressman Lords! Congressman Lukács, as vice-president of the faction.
u2016-03-01-33	I would like to tell the opposition representatives, especially my socialist fellow Members, that their shouting and yelling would be credible in that case. [[Zoltán Lukács: Say what you have written. Don't worry about me.]] If, by the way, they had stood up in this House every week during the Simor's, and told us how high András Simor's salary was, and how intolerable it was. [[Zoltán Lukács: Is that all you know? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down!]] Fellow Members! I watched, I couldn't find one such speech, despite the fact that András Simor made 8 million forints. [[Zoltán Lukács: So what?]] Now the head of the central bank will earn 70 percent of that. You may say, my fellow Member, that and then what, but I think that was a perfectly clear argument on my part. [[Zoltán Lukács: Absolutely! Zoltán Grimlock: Then lift him up more! Let's go, Hungarians!]] I believe that, overall, this amending proposal, I repeat, will lead to an increase in the stability of the financial market, that financial market regulation can make the central bank supervision system and the toolbox more effective, so the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: Congratulations! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You should have talked about constitutionality a little more.]]
u2016-03-01-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth. Here you go, Congressman. [[Zoltán Tessely: Oh, my God!]]
u2016-03-01-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Zoltán Lukács: There will be more for you, oh, my God, I think there will be more!]]
u2016-03-01-36	Congressman Luke! At least assure your fellow Member the smoothness of the speech.
u2016-03-01-37	Ladies and gentlemen, Another outrageous and outrageous proof of the theft-based government is this bill. It's new because last week, one has already been brought in with the amendment of the Post Law, but we're also going to vote on it today. [[10.30]] In both cases, you want to raise a screen to the Hungarian voters, Hungarian citizens, so that they cannot see how much and how you steal behind the scenes. That's what I'm talking about. That is why this law had to be introduced in an exceptional procedure to be adopted in almost 24 hours. We saw in the press that most of their representatives didn't even know what law we were negotiating today. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No way!]] and what we're going to vote on. Péter Szijjártó, your Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, said I would wash my hands, go to Dubai to negotiate, I had nothing to do with this story. But you do have something to do with it. What's this paragon law supposed to hide? What are you hiding? How did a privately owned offshore company settle for the 150-year-old Hungarian Post Office? What kind of contracts did you conclude, how does private interest transfer public property, Hungarian Posta, as 75% of the state-owned Hungarian state-owned company? Or what has happened at the foundations, how has more than HUF 260 billion of public money been spent, my fellow Members? You can't argue and you can't argue. I'm going to quote a court ruling, and then argue with it, because, after all, it's just a final judgment. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I know you don't care!]] So they're using this law to hide evidence of their theft-based government. They are willing to do anything to ensure that public interest data is not disclosed. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: And the opposite!]] Yesterday, I was granted immunity because the MET filed a charge of defamation, and all I did was disclose the data of public interest that I was able to obtain. You should've known better than that. Why didn't they make a law then? But in the course of tomorrow, I have to go to a 20 million-dollar damages suit, which the MET launched against me, because I made public the data of public interest that revealed how the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, did not comply with its own decree, and how the profit did not come to pass with the Hungarian state. And now they're bringing in two laws that are currently trying to make ten of my ongoing cases impossible. But for your information, I won't let you. [[Zoltán Lukács: They're sending a thug! Zoltán Grimlock: Skinheads coming!]] Allow me, then, to quote judgment 70 P.21691/2005-6 of the Metropolitan Court, which is an answer to your question. This is the judgment which the Metropolitan Court has definitively upheld, so it is a final judgment in the court today. The plaintiff's action is well founded - this is what I am with my request for data of general interest submitted - and the Fundamental Law of Hungary VI. According to Article 4 (2) of Directive 95/46/EC, everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data and to the knowledge and dissemination of data of general interest. According to Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law, each public body is obliged to account for its public finance management in the public eye. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. Data on public funds and national assets are data of general interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition to the fact that the assets of the Hungarian National Bank are national assets, the Hungarian National Bank also manages public funds. In deciding on this, it is irrelevant whether the central bank's budget is strictly included in the general government's sub-schemes, i.e. subject to the Finance Act, or whether it decides its own management. In the view of the Court, the funds allocated by the State to or received from any other source to all exclusively state-owned entities are considered to be public funds. In fact, the concepts of public money and national wealth cannot be sharply separated. At the same time, the court notes that, if it accepts merely what the defendant acknowledges, that the entire assets of the Hungarian National Bank are national assets, the legal situation will not change, since, according to Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law, data relating to both public funds and national assets are data of public interest. In addition, the National Bank of Hungary is the Central Bank Act 3 and 4. According to its objective and its tasks, it is clearly a public body, which follows that the data it manages, including its management, is not only the Fundamental Law, but also the Information Act 3. Paragraph 5 of this Article also qualifies as data of general interest. The defendant - the Pallas Athena Domus Animae Foundation - was represented by the defendant - is represented by the Board of Trustees. The members of the Board are appointed by the founder, the Hungarian National Bank, and the chairman of the Board is the same as the President of the Hungarian National Bank. The chairman of the Board is György Matolcsy. As a result, the defendant's reference to the fact that the defendant, as a mass of assets with a separate legal personality, has completely ceased the right of disposal of the body carrying out the public service mission over the transferred property does not correspond to the reality. On the other hand, on the basis of the articles of association, it can be concluded that the founder's exclusive right during the entire operation of the Foundation is the appointment of a board of trustees who decides on the Foundation's assets, i.e. in fact the founder can exercise a decisive influence on the functioning of the Foundation. In addition, the chairman of the board is also the same as the founding president. The situation in the present case, contrary to the defendant's reference, is in fact an analogue of the Constitutional Court 25/2014. the case described in AB Decision No 1. On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that the 100% State-owned Hungarian National Bank, which has only public and national assets, was established as the central bank of the State to carry out public tasks as defined in the Central Bank Act and whose management data are considered to be public data, provided the defendant, by establishing a separate mass of assets, with the State money at his disposal to a separate legal person, whose operation he can exercise a dominant influence. In the lawsuit, there was a dispute between the parties as to whether the ordering of the property, the state money deposited by the Hungarian National Bank, was a public money, but the defendant himself acknowledged that the property of the Hungarian National Bank was a national property, so whether by ordering it loses the nature of the public money or national property or not. .. the Supreme Court of Justice.. In its assessment of the legal situation, the court points out that Article 28 of the Fundamental Law provides that the courts, when applying the law, interpret the text of the legislation primarily with its purpose and in accordance with the Fundamental Law. When interpreting the Fundamental Law and legislation, it should be assumed that they serve a moral and economical purpose that is consistent with common sense and the common good. Article 1 (3) of the Fundamental Law states that a fundamental right may be limited in order to the extent strictly necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued and in compliance with the essential content of the fundamental right, in order to safeguard other fundamental rights or a constitutional value. From this provision, which existed in the previous constitution, the Constitutional Court established the provisions of Article 34/1994. Paragraph 1 states that a fundamental right may be limited to the extent strictly necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued and in compliance with the essential content of the fundamental right, in order to ensure the application of another fundamental law or the protection of a constitutional value. From this provision, which existed in the previous constitution, the Constitutional Court established the provisions of Article 34/1994. (Gr. 21. AB's decision to restrict freedom of information to be interpreted restrictively. The Court takes the view that, overall, it follows from these principles that, according to the purpose of the legislator, data relating to property which is owned, whether indirectly, by any body of the State or which is covered by the law of a State body, constitutes data of general interest. If the court were to accept the defendant's argument, as you have put it here, then these fundamental provisions and the Constitutional Court's provisions 34/1994. It would interpret the provisions of the info law and Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law contrary to the principles of law set out in AB Resolution No 39. In view of this, the court found that the defendant is a national property and public money entity, and therefore the data he manages constitute public interest data pursuant to Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law, and that the defendant is, by reason of its activities involving the management of public funds and national assets, another public service body covered by the info law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's not my argument, it's the argument of the Metropolitan Court. Debate with that, fellow Members. The same sentences can be recalled in the six-page opinion of Attila Péterfalvi. Therefore, both the Freedom of Information Authority and the Court are opposed to you and, from these opinions, this proposal is contrary to the Fundamental Law. It also violates the Fundamental Law because it has retroactive effect and is restrictive in pending cases. [[10.40]] In principle, the courts cannot apply this legislation, since it is against the law. But back to what my fellow Member Bánki said, that the extension of the rules on public benefit offers more opportunities for these foundations than the info law and the demand for data in the public interest, that is simply not true. The Public Benefit Act orders an annual report, a financial report, where they write down the activity and put a balance sheet next to it. On the other hand, according to the info law, these foundations are obliged to issue contracts for which you have spent 260 billion forints of public money on unknown persons in an unknown manner. That's what you're trying to hide. This is what we will not allow, in court proceedings, I will initiate the court's appeal to the Constitutional Court, as I am curious that this Constitutional Court, which in 2014, is your Constitutional Court, will support our arguments as to how it will judge; perhaps the black Tuesday will come up, which happened yesterday at the National Election Committee, so that it does not matter to you the facts, the point is that decisions for your benefit will be made. But there are still international forums where they can be enforced. I'm not gonna back down, I'm not gonna let me back down in defamation cases with $20 million laws like that! I'm gonna go through with it, and I'm gonna have access to the data, and whatever they do, I'm gonna fight for it in any forum. Sooner or later, my fellow Members, the truth will come out. Their objective should be to comply with the law, to comply with the Fundamental Law and to publish these contracts. Don't hide it, they'll cut the wood. Returning very briefly to the raise. This legislation also contains a pass that both the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his members are increasing their salaries. It is very interesting that I have not heard any argument about how much the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Austrian National Bank makes, for example, either the German or Swiss or any of them or the Czech National Bank Supervisory Board's income relations. This is about you triple your salary for Ferenc Papcsák. He's gonna make three and a half million. From now on, of course, we do not wonder why he gave up his salary, job and went to the Hungarian National Bank instead. Although the state CEOs were justified by the increase in salaries by the fact that the market sucks up the state's executives with good salaries, I would like to know who the Carpathian Basin Fenomenon of György Matolcsy would like to have his eyes on the market and suck it up, or which company would like to hire him at all costs as regards Ferenc Pappsák. Yes, in the background, there are increases in salaries that are totally unacceptable. I would suggest to the author that, here and now, he still has the opportunity to withdraw this anti-law, outrageous, brazen bill. We will vote against and we will do everything in our power to ensure that these provisions are not enforced in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-01-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since there are few members of the Economic Committee here from the Members of Parliament, I would like to inform you here of the circumstances relating to the referral of the bill. At 9:15 p.m., three quarters of an hour before the beginning of the meeting, I received a text from the secretariat of the committee informing me that the proposed bill had been uploaded to the Parliament's side, i.e. it is now available. During this quarter of an hour, I had to get in there and read it, interpret it, conduct expert discussions on this proposal. The government's intentions are obvious. What are you going to do in this case? It does not come in as the government's proposal, but Mr Bánki Erik takes on this proposal; it should be a proposal from individual representatives; it should not be possible for the press to make such an outrageous presentation, not even for Members to prepare themselves. As far as possible, there should not be a journalist around, since there is no expectation of what the content of this will be. And we're simply confronted with a proposal that you can't read through with surprise. Well, I remember back in 2010, when there were political debates here about the fact that during the government period of the socialists, there were blasphemously high salaries, with impeccably high severance payments. At the time, the government said that Hungary is in such a state that it is impolite to pay more than two million forints of wages in the public sector, it is impolite to give a person more than two million severance payments. Now we see that this insolence will be brought back by Fidesz in a little while, because earlier, it was the socialists, because the Fidesz tried to catch them, but it rewards its own people. György Matolcsy earns five million HUF monthly wages not only, but also a number of executives working in several state companies, and let's add that, in this five million HUF monthly wage, once again, five million HUF monthly wage does not include the premium and the extra fee, so to speak, grossing up these monthly wages. It is also very interesting when Member István Hollik tries to defend the pro-government proposal by how much the President of the Austrian Central Bank makes, and how much the President of the Belgian Central Bank makes, and how much the President of the UK Central Bank makes. I ask myself, fellow Members, the simple Hungarian people, let us say, the teachers who are now out on the street, how much they earn compared to their Austrian, Belgian or English colleagues. Who works in Hungary for Western European salaries? Who can claim Western European wages as a Hungarian employee? Hungarian workers are looking for a fraction, typically six or seven times, of the amount they earn in Western Europe. However, Fidesz is already measuring its own leaders to pay the best-looking European central bank governors, trying to make them earn as well as bankers in Western Europe. Well, my fellow Members, this is quite amazing. Once again, what the Fidesz's election motto was is the Fidesz! Why don't they fight so that the nurses don't squander, break down, so they don't struggle to pay their yellow checks at all? Why is it that people who otherwise receive luxury cars receive all kinds of benefits as bank managers with public money, taxpayers' money, now have more money in their pockets? It's quite simply amazing what's going on here! And, of course, we will expect an answer from the pro-government faction or the secretary of state, if he doesn't speak as narrowly as he used to be, why is it that what was previously considered to be an unspeakable high, the wages above two million forints, now the salary of five million forints, which is being milked with extra-wage allowances and bonuses, too? Why doesn't that count as insolence? It is also worth seeing how false the government logic that they argue here is that the central bank was profitable. Well, fellow Members, let me remind you all of what the profits of the central bank came from. There was a foreign exchange credit crisis, which resulted from the fact that under socialist governments mortgage-based foreign exchange loans were allowed to be introduced in Hungary, and then under the government of Fidesz, when Swiss francs were still available at a rate of 170-180 forints, they did not convert loans into forints, they waited for this exchange rate to fail. The Orbán government was delayed for several years, and then, when the exchange rate of the Swiss franc rose to around HUF 250, the Hungarian National Bank forinted the loans of the foreign exchange-credited families at the market rate and gained significant foreign exchange gains. And then the Hungarian National Bank did not give this significant foreign exchange gains to the foreign exchange-credited families, it did not help the poor, often evicted families, but made sure that György Matolcsy put in his pocket pocket pocket money that he could do what he wanted to do. [[10.50]] This is the money of foreign exchange lenders, which the Hungarian National Bank is about to spend on itself, on its amazing expenses. It is also important to see that the practice of central bank settlement in Hungary, which the government preserves in several steps, is unique in Europe. The independence of the central bank does not mean that the public shareholder does not exercise the right to control that he does not have over the outcome of the central bank. This is the case in Europe, my fellow Members, nowhere. It is a Hungarian curiosity that the President of the Hungarian National Bank is doing what he wants to do with this public money, spending it on what he wants. We now see different educational and other investments. I'm waiting for György Matolcsy to open a massage parlor from the bank's profits because he sees this as a profitable business [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't paint the devil on the wall. Don't give me ideas.]] Or the Hungarian National Bank may join one of Andy Vajna's casinos, the government has created the conditions that Andy Vajna can earn billions of forints in addition to the previous ones. It is also very interesting that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank creates various foundations and other organizations in order to pump the money into them, and then they say that this is no longer public money from the time it comes to the foundation. Well, I ask you, the money that the Hungarian National Bank took from foreign exchange lenders by converting at this rate, which comes from millions of crippled families, which is in principle owned by the Hungarian National Bank, is in principle public money - and also in practice. Compared to that, Fidesz is rewriting the principles. We used to wonder that, because of the unfortunate English translations, even the concept of national property was changed in the Law on the State Audit Office, and now what the Hungarian National Bank owns is no longer a public money, saying that they are handing it over to a foundation. The Metropolitan Court of Justice, of course, took the opposite view, and it is clearly public money. And it is quite obvious that we will not allow this motion, even before the Constitutional Court, if necessary, to hide this money from control, because the exclusion of the public is the government's sole objective, it is quite obvious. It is also important to see that I presented 24 legislative proposals to Parliament in November 2010 to prevent bank and broker scandals. These proposals could have been used specifically to prevent the Quaestor scandal and other broker scandals involving HUF 360 billion damage for Hungary. My fellow Members, when we discussed this bill in Parliament last year, Jobbik said that it was necessary to adopt these proposals, but Fidesz did not support these proposals, even though László Windisch, Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank responsible for financial supervision, indicated them to be followed at the meeting of the Economic Committee. With these proposals, we wanted to achieve greater responsibility for the managers of bankers and brokers, and we wanted much stricter control of banking and brokerage activities, but this could not be achieved, because the government did not support these proposals. What was behind the non-support? The fact that we have asked every parliamentary representative and central bank manager for a signed statement under criminal responsibility that he did not withdraw at the last minute did not extract money from the Quaestor based on inside information. These opposition groups, following the example of Jobbik's representatives, signed by the Socialist Party and signed by the LMP, and even signed by the various independent representatives of the Gyurcsányist behind us, only the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP did not sign. I'm asking you, if there wasn't anything to hide in the Quaestor scandal, why didn't you sign these statements? Why doesn't the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary now come in before the National Assembly by eliminating the need to hide the contact details, the names of individuals, businesses and political relatives who, based on inside information in these cases, were able to extract their money from the brokerage companies in difficulty at the last moments? There is obviously a stench here, and there is no small reason in the governing party that other Members do not follow the example of the Fidesz and KDNP Members, and do not join this proposal. We look forward to this finally happening, and we can see clearly who and how they gained the HUF 360 billion that they managed to steal in the Quaestor scandal, in the broker scandals, how Fidesz and KDNP politicians helped this activity, how they benefited from its blessings. Until these statements are signed by the politicians of Fidesz-KDNP or the heads of the central bank, of course, this accountability cannot take place, we must wait for the change of government in 2018, when Jobbik forms a government and makes you account. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-41	Not anymore. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before us proves one thing: Fidesz's greed knows no bounds, does not appear, and all self-control has been lost. Aware of the majority, they want to cheat in 24 hours a proposal to legislate that the MNB can now secretly spend hundreds of billions through its foundations without any kind of control. They also introduce new rules on the disclosure of data managed by the central bank's companies, extending the grounds for refusal of central financial and foreign exchange policy. The bill was, of course, not submitted by the government, but presented to us as a motion for individual representatives, because it is not even possible to take into account negotiations. Encryption was quite ridiculously justified by the fact that the foundations of the MNB would be a competitive disadvantage if they had to operate transparently. Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking public money, taxpayers' money. Moreover, the argument is false, because the main feature of a foundation is that it does not compete, but serves some public purpose, and in this it is difficult to interpret the competitive disadvantage. The bill states that, for the foundation established by the MNB, only the data relating to the exercise of the founding rights are public, including the instrument of incorporation, the information necessary for the achievement of the Foundation's objective, as regards the performance of the financial benefit entered into in the articles of association. Other data managed by the Foundation are CLXXV 2011 on the functioning and support of civil society organisations. It is recognised in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Act. This means that the management of central bank foundations will only be known after the end of the management year and will not be known in detail. And there's a huge difference between civil society organisations and central bank foundations. The latter is financed by public funds. The most typical and frightening statement in the entire bill is that public funds to foundations cease to be public property. In English: they make a law about putting all of our assets in their pockets, stealing, nothing to see. That's a terrifying attitude. For years, we've seen both the MNB and the government treat public money as if it were their own property, but now they're making it into law. The MNB has so far unscrupulously wasted taxpayers' money for completely unnecessary purposes. I would be happy to remind you that there are lots of real estate for billions of dollars, buying art, creating foundations and recapitalisations. But they're probably going to take a bigger step now, because otherwise they wouldn't come up with an embarrassing and outrageous bill. I'll just keep it quiet, and a lot of people are aware of the MNB's money spill, and they won't be grateful to you for that. After the election of the Prime Minister in 2010, he said that under his administration, the MNB offshore knights could not be in quarters. But now they will adopt a law that will turn the MNB into a five-star hotel of offshore knights. Only last year, the National Bank gained almost 100 billion dollars in profits, and before that, it gained even more from the HUFing of foreign currency loans, and according to the new regulations, no one will be able to prevent this from being distributed to offshore companies through the foundations. [[11.00]] The MNB foundations now manage 250 billion forints of public money. The spending of this is now being encrypted. Based on what the Fidesz government has done so far, it is obvious that they want to make this whole thing disappear, spill it out to offshore companies and buddies, spend it for luxury purposes - paintings, villas, castles, parties. Matolcsy's obsession with urination is unstoppable. Another interesting element of the bill is a significant increase in the salary of the MNB leaders. We know that György Matolcsy's salary is low. It is only 25 times the minimum wage, it is not possible to make a living from 2.5 million HUF a month to another month. Therefore, Erik Bánki and Roland Mengyi's proposal will at least double the salary of all MNB managers. György Matolcsy can earn HUF 5 million from now on, with HUF 4.5 million for his deputies, but also 3 million forints per month for members of the Monetary Committee. This is even more cynical on the part of the government than usual, as it was the Fidesz that significantly reduced the salary of the Hungarian National Bank's leaders after 2010. And the argument that the MNB's leaders' salary is below the European average is simply a misdirection. According to Portfolio's statement, Western European does, but not Eastern European. And when the payments were limited at the time of the previous management, I ask you, was that okay? Not then. At the time, Viktor Orbán talked about the principle requirement of Hungarian people to limit high salaries. Is this all over now? Don't the Hungarian people have a need for this in principle anymore? Maybe we should hold a social consultation on this, too. The market argument is also false, because neither the MNB's management nor the Monetary Council nor the Supervisory Board are people selected on a professional basis, but on a political basis. It's enough to think of Ferenc Papcsák as a great expert in monetary policy. It is also worth mentioning that the salary of President Ferenc Papcsák's Supervisory Board is rising from 1.2 million to 3.5 million forints. For some reason, we suspect that Ferenc Papcsák's salary was increased precisely to make as little work as possible for his money as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and that the Supervisory Board should carry out as little investigation as possible. It is also typical that only the salaries of the top executives of the MNB are raised, not the lower levels, not the actual employees. They're not trying to attract professionals, they're just handing out public money to their friends. In the great urization, of course, they do not realize that the wages of Hungarian average workers are even less than those of the central bank. A Mercedes factory worker receives six or seven times more for the same work in Germany than in Hungary. Why doesn't that hurt you? Nurses, educators, daycare workers have not received a raise in eight years. Millions live on a minimum salary. Doesn't that hurt? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Why doesn't it hurt you how much ordinary people's wages are below the living threshold? Why are they just worried about the fat guys? According to the LMP, the hundreds of billions distributed by the MNB are better placed everywhere than in György Matolcsy's bank account. According to the party, the National Bank should therefore pay its profits into the budget, because the MNB is not only a loss, but its profits are also public money. Therefore, LMP has already proposed to change the law, and the MNB should pay its profits into the budget, as it is also public money. To conclude, a few words from the least important part of the bill. The procedures of the MNB are excluded from the scope of the Administrative Procedure Act. The Ket. By way of derogation from the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation by means of implementing acts, in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. And the MNB believes that he cannot make such important decisions with such short deadlines and therefore withdraws from it. Looks like he can do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-03-01-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member to speak will now be given the opportunity. It's possible, but there's no candidate. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, then the first written... [[For signal:]] Group leader András Schiffer asked for a word for two minutes.
u2016-03-01-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Hollik, if he has taken such a strong step in the debate, to stay here and, on the other hand, he and Erik Bánki, on the other hand, to give an account of precisely the reasons which led them to present this shameful, shameful bill. Neither can Erik Bánki seriously think that anyone in this country will lick the fact that it is actually about safeguarding the assets of the central bank. We know it's not true. Last week, they filed an amendment to the Post Law, today they're just planning to kidnap a loose 250 billion. What led you to submit this as an individual representative's motion? What are the real reasons? [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: That's right.]] Stand here, in front of the public in the country, and report back. It's very clear what you're up to. You submit weekly laws that will prevent you from being accounted for in 2018. The bad news is, this isn't gonna work. These laws will go to the trash in 2018, and those who have stolen public money under such laws will go to prison. You can't legitimize the robbery by law. Stand here and tell us what specific purpose these laws serve. Until then, this bill cannot be discussed in substance. Don't make us look like idiots. Stand here and tell me what the real reasons are. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-44	This is the time for speeches by Members who have made themselves known in writing. First, I would like to address Mr Gergely Bárándy of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If Mr Schiffer had asked this question, although it is true, not for me, but I think that we should not be naive, and if he had written the real reasons in the statement of reasons, it would probably have sounded like this: the purpose of the bill is to promote the concealment of the free robbery in the Hungarian National Bank and to raise the salaries of the rulers and governors of the thieves and to recognise their merits. If we want to look at real reasons, then, Congressman Schiffer, that's probably what they were. Obviously, Congressman Bánki cannot be expected to say the same with such unmasked honesty. I would also like to raise a few points in two rounds, which has already been discussed. Indeed, a salary increase is one of the central elements of this story, even because you feel it quite simply, and it is rightfully outrageous that until, let's say, a health physical worker in Heves County or Csongrád County pays HUF 2722 per day according to KSH data, György Matolcsy's salary will also be HUF 227 272 per day. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] And to do that, of course, you'll have to add what you're looking for from the foundations, because you always forget to add that. When comparing the payments of the central bank president, they always forget that György Matolcsy still earns a few million forints a month or a year, unlike the former central bank president. But the fact that, by the way, you can put two or three zeroes behind his salary compared to what a health worker earns, now, that's a real shame. And I'm still waiting for the statistics on where these people stand in comparison to 28. 'Cause I'm afraid it's pretty much at the end of the line. And when you're talking about András Simor's salary, it's always an example, and I'd like to raise two problems here. First of all, when the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank was really high, it was during the first Orbán government, when they called the President of the Central Bank Járai Zsigmond, who was former Minister of Finance of Viktor Orbán. That's the first problem. That is, he did not rise in the time of András Simor; no doubt he was somewhat taller than he was. [[11.10]] The other problem, my fellow Members, is that you were not motivated at all by the reduction in salaries to correct the wages of state leaders. If that was the motivation, all opposition parties would probably have given support to this, because, yes, it is true that when a country is doing really well, we can overlook the fact that state leaders are making a lot of money. However, when you are in a situation such as Hungary today or even Hungary then, it is true that state leaders, in the same way as Members or Ministers, may be justified by the President of the Central Bank to reduce the salary. You know, it wasn't your motivation at the time, and it was obvious to everyone who was a Member at the time in this House, but I think it was also to those who might not, because it was part of a process. The process was about to remove non-loyal state leaders and heads of independent state bodies from their positions. This was the case for András Baka, President of the Supreme Court, who had three years left in his mandate when you fired him; otherwise, the European Court of Human Rights has also awarded him the compensation that the Hungarian taxpayers will also have to take and pay to the former President on your own account. Similarly, the National Election Committee was beaten up before the end of its mandate. The President of the Fiscal Council was in the same way, and I remember him, he was fired before the end of his term of office by a proposal for amendment to the final vote on the Health Act. You wanted to do the same thing to the President of the Central Bank, but you just couldn't, because of the opposition of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, because Hungary couldn't afford it. Therefore, the campaign took a different form, they tried to outsource the powers from the then central bank president, and part of that was that his salary was reduced out of revenge, i.e. there was no mention that there was an acceptable concept behind it, and this campaign was simply for you to justify this reduction. And that there is no reason or any evidence of this more, and later, when you uploaded the Monetary Council with Fidesz members, then the members of the Monetary Council suddenly separated their salary from the central bank's salary and increased it separately. Then, when Zsigmond Járai and the chairman of the Supervisory Board came to the National Bank, it was suddenly separated from the central bank's salary, and his salary was increased separately - so Zsigmond Járai made more money than the president of the fb - and only the central bank and the vice-presidents remained in the lower payment grade. The essence of your policy is, therefore, my honourable fellow Members, my fellow Members, that it is not the position that sets the level of payment, but who fills that position. If your guy is in that position, he'll get a high salary, and if he's less than nice to you, he'll get less pay. And my honourable fellow Members, that it may arise as a reason that the market will siphon away this excellent expert, György Matolcsy or his deputy, any one for whom they are obviously rushing not only in Hungary, but across Europe. [[Zoltán Grimlock: All over the world!]] Because he's so prepared and excellent, I can tell you one thing. In this Parliament, we receive, in particular, 15% of what György Matolcsy will now pay on your proposal. Believe me, fellow Members, I value you very much, and I am sure that you in the market, as I do, can find much more than that, believe me, and you know it. We're not here for this, we're here for dedication, and people who don't have enough for dedication, say, another 2-3 million forints to stay in their position, that's, you know, don't stay there. That is the argument, honourable fellow Members - how shall I put it? - It's bullshit. I have one request for payment, and then I will briefly turn to some constitutional issues: give the salary only to György Matolcsy and his vice-presidents, which you gave his predecessor, not a penny less and not a penny more. You think that was the payment of the just central bank president, because you set it up, so let's keep it, and György Matolcsy make the same amount that András Simor was looking for, but I don't think the name is the same. The other problem, which is significantly greater, is constitutionality, but I have already spoken about it a little longer at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. You know, there's a simple rule of law, they teach it in the first grade of law, and it's called a legislative hierarchy. Part of this is that a lower-level legislation should not be contrary to a higher-level legislation. In this way, the Fundamental Law is at the top of this hierarchy - since Hungary has no constitution, thanks to you - there can be no other legislation contrary to that. There is one problem that any argument that is otherwise vocal is being made in order to defend this law, this law is contrary to the Basic Law. But I'll tell you one more thing: a half law can't be contrary to a two-thirds law. The law on national assets is a two-thirds law, which is contrary to that law. In order not to express my own opinion, but to quote a few thoughts from the president of NAIH, I would quote:. In view of the foregoing, it can be concluded that the above provision of the proposal infringes Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law, Article 7 and Article 10 of the National Property Act, which constitutes an essential element of the National Property Act. the provisions of the Act, as well as the provisions of the Act of Accession and the Act of Accession of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 5. §8 of the EC Treaty. Furthermore, if the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary was proposed to enter into force, there would be internal coherence problems due to the conflict between certain provisions of the Act. The proposal also contains a complete conflict with the relevant practice of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice and the Authority. The contested provision of the proposal therefore raises serious constitutional concerns. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to continue one more paragraph: Article 4 of the proposal raises further constitutional issues. In order to fulfil the requests for access to information of general interest set out in Section 2 of this Article, the proceedings pending before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and the proceedings brought before the Court for the issue of data of general interest should also be applied, it should be regarded as retroactive legislation, and I know that you love it, which fundamentally affects the principle of legal certainty, which is one of the most important guarantees of the democratic rule of law, derived from the Fundamental Law. Furthermore, the Authority wishes to stress that the wording of the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, according to which it concerns data generated before the amendment or not yet issued, could prejudice the requirements of the independence of the judiciary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said once again, there is no problem with this proposal, as opposed to the fundamental provisions on national property, contrary to the information law, violates the principle of legal certainty and violates the principle of judicial independence. [[Zoltán Grimlock: To the trash can with him!]] There really isn't any other problem constitutionally with this law. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not a question that such a law should not be passed. I'd like to add one last thing: don't think, don't believe, don't think any of those who are doing this now to get away with stealing, don't think. Anyone who stands there today smiling and thinks to himself that the opposition is just gonna rip their mouths off, it doesn't matter, it's gonna be voted anyway, it's not gonna do anything about it, well, it's totally wrong. Because, as I may not be the first person to tell you today, these crimes that you're trying to cover up with this law have a statute of limitations of 10 or 15 years at least. That means that, after so long, it is possible to initiate proceedings against someone, and such a time-frame in politics is an insurmountably long time. So if you expect to get away with this, don't sleep so much. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-01-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Staudt Gábor is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, You can count on it, because in the last 25 years, everyone has gotten away with stealing, my colleague Bárándy. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No!]] So it was a huge political crime that passed the last 25 years. Of course, after a few billion forints were stolen, a suspended sentence or two were seen, but I wouldn't want to talk about it, so it's easy for the Fidesz Members to believe that it's possible to get away with it. Our fellow Member Hollik began his speech by saying that the law strengthens the stability of the banking system. There are no traces of this, perhaps at the beginning of the rules of procedure and at the beginning of the law, of some kind of clues can be found in the rules of procedure, but this is not about the stability of the banking system. And the fact that we're supporting the confused brokers was a good thing that we had to find out from István Hollik, but that's not exactly what the suggestion is when they're trying to squeeze public property into private pockets. Where do the huddle brokers come up here? Only in those circles who try to save public property. [[11.20]] To tell you the truth, in the case of the Postal Act, we did not think that the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary would come to Parliament so quickly - before the adoption of the Postal Act. The reason I was unable to comment in the committee debate of the MNB Act is because I had to come here to give a Commission minority opinion in the Postal Act. I didn't expect to be in two places, so I can't give my opinion, so I'm gonna do it right now, right here in front of the National Assembly. You know, there are a lot of words about wages and wage increases here, of course, this alone is unbelievable, but this is even the smallest part of the matter, believe me, compared to the hundreds of billions of forints that you are trying to get rid of here or your farming, that is the 5 million forints wage, I think it would be a negligible consideration if we just talked about it. Of course, you could say all kinds of things, and you could tell how much the central bank president had paid before. I wouldn't even care about that right now, because it doesn't hide the hundreds of millions of forints from us, which, by the way, they intend to make disappear or at least make it difficult to make transparent. It has been said several times, from the mouth of several of my fellow Members, how profitable the central bank is here. In fact, this means only exchange rate gains, in most cases, which, of course, is seen as a kind of spendable money at the central bank, while if the central bank is going to lose money, then it will have to be replaced by everyone's taxpayers' forints, and that HUF 200-300 million would be very useful when the exchange rates or, for some other reason, there will be a loss. Not to mention that I can fully agree with my fellow Member Volner's opinion that this is largely money taken from foreign exchange lenders, as you have referred to all kinds of legal barriers that you are refusing to sell the Swiss franc to foreign exchange lenders at the price that the central bank obtained - the central bank would not have suffered if it had been sold for what it had obtained - because it has some kind of legal barrier. This did not have a legal barrier, and by the way, the exchange rate gains of these funds, indeed a large part of the Swiss franc sold to foreign exchange lenders, were bought in by the central bank. It is particularly disgusting that these funds are spent on expenses for which the central bank has no authority, such as the reform of Hungarian higher education. By the way, if you're going to be an education, you'd have to put this in another way, 200-300 million forints. By the way, the proposal is amazing - on the basis of the various points - because you are all involved here in trying to hide the assets of the central bank's companies, companies owned or indirectly owned by the central bank and the foundations. My fellow Member Schiffer said before the committee meeting that the reference to central financial and foreign exchange policy interests is a mandate in the info law, according to which another piece of legislation can be drawn up, which specifies exactly what kind of data restrictions can be imposed. You write that data relating to the performance of any of your duties may be included. There's no such thing. We should make a law about what those data are. Any data is not a definition that complies with the rules of the info law. This is not an indication of a type of data, not to mention that if this is not enough, the next reference to business in paragraph 6 will be included. If this first pass wasn't enough, then let's put in the pass that's in the postal law, just in case, one of which will have to be accepted by the court, and the foundation assets will be filled with this amazing argument. Otherwise, the reasons for the bill should also be looked at. Here you are talking about - and I would not quote why, contrary to the fundamental law and to existing court decisions - that if a foundation is set up, in general, and this is also true of the central bank, then the wealth is so separate, in which the property loses its public property. On the one hand, this is not the case, either in general, especially in the event that György Matolcsy leads the board of trustees - in many cases it has been said that there are such foundations - so the influence remains on these assets. But I am telling you that if this were the case, if this reference were correct, which you would write down in the general statement of reasons, so that hundreds of millions of forints can be placed in a foundation that then loses its public assets, and if it were not public property, then private property - a foundation can have private property, not just private property - so if it were private property, then you would be in even more trouble if it were true, because I think this is unfaithful treatment the way it is. Because whoever can transfer hundreds of billions of public assets into private property, this in Btk, is fully accomplishing unfaithful treatment. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. András Schiffer: That's right. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's true.]] And then it is possible to think about which version is true, and I must say to you that this is the more serious one, that if your argument is correct, and it is only for you to decide whether the practice that has taken place so far at the Hungarian National Bank is the practice of misappropriation, or if you are actually committing a legislative mistreatment when you are trying to vote on this proposal. So these are the main problems, and of course you can refer to the banking system for competitiveness and everything else, the main problem is that you can make hundreds of billions of public assets private with a law or a central bank decision. These are the real scandals that need to be answered, not just now, but also later, and believe that this will not happen the way it has been before; The parties of the century will not think of accountability as they have seen so far in this mournful quarter of a century behind us. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, Congressman Nándor Gúr, please.
u2016-03-01-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could ask my fellow members of the Government whether they have lost their minds, but I do not ask, but rather I say that I see that you have lost your minds. So, when Fidesz executives of a theft-based government are filling their pockets, doing free robbery in Hungary in this country, are you going to head off by covering up 200 billion forints from the eyes of the people? You know, there are all those sitting on the gallery, but all Hungarian citizens, from the baby to the old man, have lost HUF 20,000 based on your HUF 200 billion activity. They are violating their own Fundamental Law, Article 39 (2), the fact that public money and national property are data of public interest. That's what you're gonna do. Rogue! Rogueness remains a rogue, my fellow Members. It can't be legitimized. No matter what laws they put the story under, the rogueness, the theft remains what it is. That's what you have to deal with. The fact that they give 5 million forints of money to not only Péter Polt's wife, now Matolcsy, you know that 225,000 forints a day is about a hundred times what a nurse makes a day. They have to face this shame, and they have to wear it! Their decisions, as Orbán said, must be borne in their responsibility. This will happen after 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-01-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-51	Mr President, Dear House, We have to tell you, when the government touched the Post Law a week or two ago, we warned you in a way that could be verified in the minutes, so that they would not dare go down that disgusting road, that they would start encrypting various public money-related tricks and machinations from one sector to another. Then we raised and asked what would happen next: the MNB or MVM, or the Gambling Company.? We didn't think there was such a thing as legalja.hu that we would get here to put the next encryption tsunami before us in a week or two. What is unbelievable cynicism, however, is that we are talking here about a 200 billion-dollar so-called MNB profit that the MNB is actually making as a profit in the so-called settlement of foreign exchange lenders. Therefore, without exaggerating, it can be said that this is the money to be regrouped by foreign exchange lenders, in any case indirectly. The amazing cynicism on your part is that today, on this day, when you refuse to extend the eviction moratorium, when you contribute to losing your home once again to thousands of Hungarian families, because after your subpoenaed arrangement, almost as much authentic as before, and there will be more in the coming months, you dare to present such a package to us. [[11.30]] István Hollik's contribution, not to be called professional, is not here, I do not wish to be classified behind his back, and I will tell him because it is fair, but we have to tell him: it is quite amazing that the MNB, moving very far from its primary activity, exercises investments and real estate development in various art projects and educational projects. When you touched the Postal Act, you knew very well that the ongoing public interest data requests were essentially being stopped, and that information crumbs that directly concern the operation of the MNB Foundations could be sued, or that public employees' salaries could be learned through such data requests, or the decisions behind the mallstop, which lobby interests influenced the government's activities at the time. It can be said, therefore, that this is far from about the stability of the banking system; it is a story of the fact that, in addition to their own error, those who have suffered from foreign currency credit have been in a catastrophic financial situation, at least because of your incomplete and truncated, so in any case subpoenaed settlement, a profit of a hundred billion is accumulated, and you are not turning this profit into a compensation fund along with Jobbik's proposal, which could be helped by those who have already been evicted, or are in an incredibly difficult financial situation, let us say, at the end of an implementation process, but simply trying to close it in the dark, encrypt what you want to do with these public funds. I stress that this debate is already half-encrypted, as you have even abolished parliamentary mediation. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] So we're arguing in pretty amazing circumstances - in front of a few hundred viewers - about what affects the fate of a country. Once again, it is immeasurable cynicism to argue about this at the end of the eviction moratorium. We must stress that if you are going to hide some kind of theft in the background, you will not get away with this theft, no one will get away with these acts, and once again, we call on you: in addition to extending the eviction moratorium, until your promise to leave no one on the side of the road, you were on the billboards, you were there to make the banks account. Compared to this, the profits accumulated by the so-called settlement are not helping the victims, they are not getting their money back from those they unduly took away, but they are collaborating again, they are winking with the stakeholders again, they have made a pact with the EBRD, and this wink is not surprising, and we can say that, until this compensation fund is set up, justice cannot be discussed. So we call on you to do this over and over again, warning you that whatever you're trying to hide, it won't stay in the dark. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches made by the Members of the Commission in advance. It is also coming from the Jobbik Group, Mr Csaba Gyure. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you an important question: who owns the money of the Hungarian National Bank? Whose money is it? Is this public money, the people, the citizens, the Hungarians, or the Fidesz, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or György Matolcsy's money? This is what this law is about, which is what they want to say, that the parliament, the Hungarian people, has no comment, no visibility. That's not acceptable at all. What about the MNB? State of the state is the National Bank. I mean, technically, he'll have a budget that no one will have an insight into where he puts it in the foundation, in the company; what happens to it; what happens to it; what happens is a crime. After all, it is possible to talk about unfaithful treatment, Gábor Staudt spoke as his own about provision, embezzlement, because it can also be done with these public funds - and how do we check it? It's in the law that it can be encrypted for ten years. In ten years, all points of embezzlement will expire, all classified cases will lapse, all classified cases of fraudulent treatment will be postponed in all cases, so criminal liability in this case may not be taken into account, not to mention political responsibility, continuous transparency. And where does Hungary go? So we are constantly faced with laws that are basically putting the country into the deepest depths of corruption; there is almost no week now that Fidesz-KDNP does not submit a bill that will bring Hungary back down in the world ranking of corruption. I do not know which black-African country Fidesz-KDNP has targeted for this purpose. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Zimbabwe!]] That's where he wants to take the country, that level, or that he wants to stay in Europe. It's just unbelievable for us how this is going to happen. Corruption in Hungary is practically constantly growing, and transparency is increasingly decreasing. We used to talk about a glass pocket program ten years ago. Even then, we said that the glass pocket was practically a glass pocket made out of opal glass so that it wouldn't be transparent. But the Fidesz-KDNP would cover even this glass pocket with a black veil, so that even the shadows would not be seen through, no one would know about the fate of any money, not even the Members of Parliament, and thus practically perfectly create the opportunity to make the public money completely disappear in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Schiffer András Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-01-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to start by saying that yesterday the Prime Minister said that, as a god, you're like a god. The fact is, you have tabled, by the way, not for the first time in the last year and a half, an amendment to the law of a judicial organization. The adoption of this requires two thirds. What I can tell you is that as long as you're here operating on your own motion, the Secretary of State doesn't have an opinion on this, of course. [[András Tállai: Yes!]] They're messing with the fact that pending cases are being hung up by such substantive laws, while they're messing with the law to prevent final judgments from being enforced, we're not giving our consent to any two-thirds laws concerning courts and justice. Like a god, like a tooth. There's no point in the story. If that's what court proceedings are worth, if that's what final convictions are worth, then what are they talking about? The biggest problem of the justice system today is whether it is possible to keep established legal places, when a law can be made in the Hungarian Parliament to prevent the enforcement of final judgments? Have fun with someone else. So I'll tell you in advance of tomorrow's debate: it doesn't matter what kind of judicial organizational amendment they bring here, it doesn't matter whether the Minister of Justice or one of the Fidesz Members of KDNPs is the author, as long as they're messing with the fact that pending cases are being hung up on the sole purpose of obtaining money, in order to hide something, to any two-thirds law involving courts and justice, the LMP doesn't give its consent. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Neither do we!]] Let's keep moving. In recent weeks, the LMP has put forward, by the way, a bill to ensure that banking secrecy is not enforced when it comes to financial institutions set up by a separate law by the State. We would go in the opposite direction, and I hope that Hungary will go in the opposite direction after 2018: let alone exclude the central bank and the companies and foundations created by the central bank from public control, we placed on the Parliament's table that when the state, Parliament, sets up financial institutions in law - such as the MFB, such as the Eximbank and such the MNB - these special credit institutions should not be covered by banking secrets. Then, when you're using Andy Vajna through our Eximbank, you can't hide behind bank secrets. So, in contrast to what Fidesz wants: to suspend theft of public wealth, we say that even bank secrets should not prevail when it comes to such special financial institutions. Dear Parliament, Do you really think István Hollik is talking about creating financial stability here? Not more than the Fidesz franchise system [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] stability can be discussed. What are you talking about stability, anyway? You bring him here, you have the nerve to bring the broker scandal here, when, in addition to what my fellow Members Volner and Staudt have said here, this amount would not only be good for the compensation of foreign exchange creditors, which they are trying to hide! It is not just about compensation for foreign exchange lenders when a bill is submitted for the removal of loose HUF 200 billion. In November 2014, the central bank, as a supervisory body, authorised the issuance of bonds for one of the Quaestor companies that appeared to fall for it. [[11.40]] There's no responsibility for that. I think that this HUF 250 billion would be very useful when the Investor Protection Fund, various compensation funds, could be created and capitalised. This money would also be needed when Quaestor's damage and the compensation of the victims of other brokerage companies are being hampered by the fact that the central bank is washing its hands. But let's get back to the Fidesz resolution of the foreign exchange credit crisis for a second. The situation is that while you were campaigning in 2009-2010 to save foreign exchange creditors, you practically didn't do anything for four years, and then Antal Rogán stood up and said that it was not possible, there is no money at the central bank to compensate the foreign exchange credit victims at the cost rate. A 27 percent grip was realised by the central bank. The 27 percent marijuana is HUF 960 billion in lower voice, a profit of HUF 960 billion. So, my fellow Member Bánki, this profit is not the result of the excellent functioning of the central bank. Of course, it can be said that exchange rate changes have also contributed to the fact that the central bank has made a profit. The HUF 960 billion profit was generated by the Hungarian National Bank because you and your predecessors cheated the foreign exchange lenders. This is HUF 960 billion. The 250 billion forints you're trying to hide at the foundations today are missing from the pockets of the foreign exchange loan victims. With this exchange rate differential, you cheated and damaged the foreign exchange credit victims. Not only is it not that this 250 billion HUF is privately owned, which György Matolcsy is throwing away to foundations, but this money is not private property of György Matolcsy or some foundation, it is the money of the currency-loan-damaged! It's the money of the people you fooled in 2010, 2014. They licked that fidesz pacifier so that Fidesz would solve the foreign exchange credit crisis, and then compensate for the foreign exchange credit victims, and these people were a mess. That's the 27 percent interest margin at the central bank. Not only is this money not your private property or the Pallas Athena Foundation's private property, behind all the castles and artifacts, there is the tragedy of families with foreign currency loans, there is the tragedy of families who have been run over. Look these people in the eye. Just to say that our fellow Member Erik Bánki says that we do not feel sorry for György Matolcsy and Ferenc Papcsák for the raise. First of all, I would like to remind you that you fought with a hypocritical image against it, otherwise you were absolutely right about the high salaries the Simor company made. Orbán also had a great speech about this in 2011, and even a payment ceiling was introduced. Now, compared to this, you argue that after Ireland, the salary of central bank managers is the lowest in Hungary, and that even with this increase, we will not achieve the Irish central bank manager's salary. Great. I do not know if my fellow Member Bánki knows this figure - unfortunately it is not colourful. This figure shows that, while it may not be possible to reach the last-to-last Ireland in central bank payments, Hungary is in the last place, it is a disgrace with regard to central bank payments... [[János Pócs intervenes.]] Congressman Pócs, I'm going to give you an interpreter manual, and then you'll understand what the debate is about. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] So the situation is that, when it comes to the hourly rate of ordinary people, my fellow Member, Ireland is here with an hourly rate of EUR 30, and Hungary is here with an hourly rate of less than EUR 10. Let's talk about this, how much Irish workers earn and how much Hungarian workers earn! In addition, this table shows that between 2008 and 2014 Irish workers are constantly rising to an average hourly rate of around 30 euros, while between 2008 and 2014 the Hungarian average hourly wage is constantly falling. Do you then have a face to argue that the poor Hungarian central bank president makes less money than the Irish central bank president? ! [[Voices from the ranks of Fidesz, including Yikes!]] Do you really mean that when there's a ten-fold difference between average wages? [[János Pócs: Demagogy can be different! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, As regards the bill, you have also talked about, if I recall correctly, Mr Hollik, the loss of the public assets from the central bank to the foundation. On the one hand, I can confirm what my fellow Member Staudt said, that if that were the case, if that were the case, then we should immediately open an investigation of the prosecution's own motion against the heads of the central bank for reasonable suspicion of misappropriation. But the other thing is, if you think that by ordering foundational assets, the bank's money as public money loses the nature of public money, then why legislate on it. If you are assuming that, in itself, by means of a civil act of foundation order, public money loses the nature of public money, provided that you do not allow yourself to be right about this, then why should a sectoral law provide for this? If you're reading this out of the civil code, it's completely unnecessary to make specific provisions in a sectoral law. Or what about the foundation order of other state government bodies? I would also like to risk the evil question of what they will do then, so let's stick to the news if, say, the municipality of Salgótarján wants to order a foundation. Will the Fidesz, KDNP position still be that it has lost the nature of public money, say, the municipality of Salgótarján, or, say, the foundation property ordered by the municipality of Ozd? Will this be the opinion of national cooperation? That is what I would like to hear from my fellow Member Bánki. Let's be equal in standards. If you believe that the central bank money loses the nature of the public money by ordering the foundation - I do not agree with that, but it is logical what you say - then what if Salgótarján, Ozd or Tapolca's municipality orders foundation property? They're still gonna say we're gonna put our hands up, and from now on, the city foundation has nothing to do with anyone, because it's a private foundation? Once again, please answer the question: if this logic is correct to my fellow Member, Mr Banki, then why should we have a separate law for this? Dear Parliament, This bill clearly serves the purpose of keeping all the abuses that the central bank has done in recent years in the dark. It is believed, and this is the real political goal of all these dependent laws, that the public cannot control what is going on with public wealth. It was just yesterday that, for the second time, Possibly Other Politics has presented an anti-corruption package that you would be willing not to include in a series of articles for the second time. The aim of this bill is precisely, and this package of laws, to ensure, for example, that competition offers are transparent after the end of the tender deadline for proposals with public funds and public assets. Among other things, this package of laws includes the removal of offshore knights from the public area of public money and public property, and we also aim to make it impossible to create offshore companies and offshore companies in Hungary by amending the civil code. What does the government that calls itself a national do? He's releasing a central bank president to make deals with offshore companies. The wealth you're trying to cover up is often owned by offshore companies. György Matolcsy's central bank buys castles from offshore companies. On what basis do you think that they serve any national purpose, national interest, when you release a national wealth mass to a central bank, so that the purchase price can be found in offshore tomatoes? Doesn't that bother you? Does it bother you that in Hungary domestic capital formation has not started in 25 years because Hungarian government debt has migrated two and a half times to offshore tomatoes? Doesn't that interest you at all? I believe you don't care, because the winners of this offshore outflow are the system parties, the XX. The parties of the century, those who ruled Hungary after the regime change in 1990, this political elite, you are also involved in this. [[11.50]] Once in a while, how do you think that any national purpose can be served by a government policy that openly and obscenely supports offshoreisation and sweeps all opposition initiatives that are about dismembering offshore knights? And once again, this central bank policy serves a great deal but not the stability of the financial system. In the report of the central bank president, I also said that a responsible central bank management, whether in the case of such shady transactions, such as the damage to foreign exchange lenders, the exchange rate changes and the responsible management, for whatever reason gain profits, should be put in reserve, or compensation funds should be given, so that damage arising from the operation of the central bank or financial supervision, such as brokers, can be compensated. It must be placed in reserve, my fellow Member, because it is precisely the central bank reserve that serves financial stability. So, contrary to what Congressman Hollik has said, financial stability is not served by the possibility of being barred from the public by the assets of the central bank. The stability of the financial system is served by the possibility of putting in reserve profits in better times for worse times. What if the international financial situation, the exchange rates change so that the profits of the central bank suddenly turn into losses? Who's gonna make up for this? Obviously, you are not the Hungarian taxpayers from your own pocket, but the Hungarian taxpayers who are looking for a fraction of the Irish average wage, for example. Those Hungarian nurses, those Hungarian daycare workers, those Hungarian workers will compensate for the loss of the central bank in a few years' time, who are now looking for a fraction of the Irish average worker's. That's what we should be talking about, facing the voters. The government of Fidesz-KDNP, the Orbán government, a neoliberal government, does not care how much the average Hungarian people earn. The good thing for you is that the Hungarian people earn as little as possible. The only thing you care about is making your own kisses pay pretty high, and no one can follow up on their own sneaky business. That's what this bill is about. And once again, I would like to confirm that, as long as you are introducing legislative proposals, you are adopting laws to prevent pending court cases, to make it impossible for us to implement finally won public-interest data lawsuits, we will not be partners in any judicial amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-03-01-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény, and Dániel Z. Kárpát's two minutes later. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We're looking at a school example of Fidesz and government power, arrogant power. How do they do that? They are not putting the bill before the House by government referral, but by individual Members, which, by the way, relieves them of a lot of obligations, as far as the legislative process is concerned. I am sorry that those high school students who have been following this bill have gone, because very briefly what this was all about or what this is all about: how to spend some HUF 200 billion in public money without anyone knowing what they're spending it on. And they're also bringing in the bill on how their own gang, their own friends' salary is being raised. What they're doing is simply stomach-stricken. Thank you.
u2016-03-01-58	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's two-minute meeting, followed by Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-59	Mr President, Dear House, While we're trying to argue that they're trying to hide art treasures behind the curtain against the MNB profit, and otherwise they'd disappear a hundred billion in an opaque way, I appreciate that Erik Bánki is trying to protect the unprotected with sufficient restraint. However, I see that my fellow Member Pócs could press a button and explain your position because we did not hear it. Or if you don't dare, let's at least say in the closing word what you think, let's say, about the extension of the eviction moratorium. Jobbik clearly urges that all honest Hungarian citizens who are in debt crisis without their own fault should be protected by Hungary, so that they cannot get to thousands of streets on the basis of quarterly quotas. We believe that this is a realistic proposal, and that should at least be debated. To this end, we will also submit a proposal for a decision. Obviously, we expect you to respond substantially to this today, because today could become a black day for the credit-damaged, if we do nothing, if we do not intervene. At the same time, when you talk about the stability of the banking system and there are financial issues, you cannot avoid the issue of car-crediters, where, in essence and at almost a market rate, you have managed to forint these so-called loans, as opposed to Jobbik's suggestion of the exchange rate at the time of admission. And in addition to the fact that we find that about 70 percent of the so-called car credit contracts have found a formal error that makes these contracts bleed and attackable from a thousand wounds, we have to say, after this almost market rate conversion, what do you do if the Swiss franc's exchange rate, let's say, goes in a direction that makes these people worse? I mean, if this happened recently, it could happen in the near future. So your so-called settlement has legalized hundreds of billions of forints in banks' accounts, belonging to citizens, those affected, who have been unduly taken, and now they would take away the possibility of pain relief with this bill, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The 200 billion-dollar item that should be returned to the victims, the owners, to swallow and spend it behind the curtain. That's what we're protesting. That's what we need to prevent by any means necessary. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-01-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is always touching to hear the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP refer to Europe. They want European wages for György Matolcsy, they shed crocodile tears for him. The other day, a nurse from a hospital sent a notice of a raise: he received an increase of HUF 1,400 forints, about 1 kilo of meat and 1 kilo of bread. [[Nándor Gúr: And all this is his!]] Fellow Members! Have a little Europe for them, if you could. Europe for those who really want European wages, and that is not György Matolcsy! On the other hand, my fellow Member Hollik is somehow unable to recall yesterday's events, because his group leader [[Dr. András Schiffer: They're not even here!]] He spoke of a Christian social party that is sensitive to social problems. Our colleague Hollik defended the President of the Hungarian National Bank with great sensitivity and explained why he had to make more money. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, here's the lesson. Please do me a favor and take care of those who really need it, because they are listening. Don't doubt it. They're watching you. You know what this day is about. The other thing I would like to say for two minutes is that the representative of the government is practically not present here, in this circle, has no opinion. [[On the sign of András Tállai next to Erik Bánki:]] Mr. Tállai is wandering around, sitting here and there, but he doesn't have an opinion about this. My dear Mr. Tallai, you have an opinion on everything. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] Tell me something about these arguments that have been made here. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of MSZP: Shame! It's a shame.]] Tell us something, we want to hear what the government has to say about this proposal. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Time!]] 'Cause he doesn't have one. No, because it looks like you're trying to hide from this case, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. A statement from the benches of the MSZP: Shame and shame!]] So, Mr. Secretary, let's hear it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-01-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. András Schiffer asked for the floor against the time frame. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-63	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have liked to have listened to the Secretary of State's comment. However, instead of making jokes, the government representative will enter the debate and defend the one-word position that I support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Lajos Korózs: We'll give him time!]] It is true that you, of course, had the same electoral program:, Only Fidesz! This is what we see that the only thing you are interested in right now is Fidesz. So let's line it up. At a time when the public servant's payroll has been frozen for eight years, when you say that there is no money to raise wages for health professionals or pedagogical assistants, there is no money to raise wages for daycare workers, it must be clearly shown that there is money for that. The President of the Central Bank, Ferenc Papcsák, has money to raise the salary; there is no money to raise the wages of daycare workers and civil servants in Hungary. This is the policy of the Orbán government. [[12.00]] Dear Parliament, Moreover, it should be made clear that this proposal does not create any coherence in the legal system. On the contrary, I would like to reiterate once again that the Freedom of Information Act 27, when my fellow Members here classify the grounds against the basic law. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 defines the central financial and foreign exchange policy interest by establishing a sectoral law on this basis. Compared to this, this law does not specify exactly what is the central financial and foreign exchange policy interest, it conflicts with the law on national assets, state assets, and therefore also on the basis of this, if there is a conflict with other laws in the legal system, and this violates fundamental rights, this is also a reason why this bill will be unconstitutional. Dear Parliament, I would very much like Fidesz-KDNP to have time to say that Congressman Pócs, or anyone else, is very active in shouting, but even Erik Bánki is not in his locker room, but here in the debate, tell me something about whether you still believe, as Antal Rogán said in 2014, that there is no money to compensate foreign exchange credit victims at the rate of admission. Do you still believe that the central bank has no assets to compensate the brokers? Do you still believe that the central bank, as a supervisory body, is not responsible for the fact that it authorised an activity in November 2014 that caused a brokerage house to fall in February 2015? Stand here and say yes again. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] there is no money to compensate foreign exchange borrowers at the rate of admission, but there is money to buy castles and buy art! Thank you.
u2016-03-01-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I have the opportunity to address Mr Csaba Gyüre for a two-minute speech, but it is only a matter of time. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-65	Thank you very much. What new culture of debate, my fellow Members, is a debate in which you do not speak? Of the 30 minutes of Fidesz, 30 remained during the debate, the KDNP received 20 minutes, actually a short lead speaker, until the opposition had no time left, and we talked it out. This system of national cooperation is that we can say it here, and you won't say a word. I would like to hear from you; I would like to know that if you listened to your hearts and your minds, not your orders, how many of you individual Members would press the yes button with a calm conscience. Mr State Secretary, please respond to this, so that there are such high pay differences. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And that's how much public wealth can be eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Legány asked for the floor in order of business. In a minute, the motion, the explanatory statement, Mr. Congressman.
u2016-03-01-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My brief point of order would be because it is a law negotiated in a special procedure before this House now, so in view of the special procedure, let us also now apply a special legal order in order for the President to vote here in this House on the possibility of giving representatives of the government the opportunity to refute our constitutional concerns, which we have raised, because then there would be an opportunity for opposition representatives to be disproved. And my explanation, once again, is that...
u2016-03-01-68	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-69	We know you have an opportunity, by the way.
u2016-03-01-70	You know I can't go beyond the rules of the house, so the only way I can appreciate your comment is that there was no point of order. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Note, you need to know the same thing in particular. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: I say that he understands an experiment!]] I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak on a time-frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I'm going to ask you, among the authors... [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Erik Bánki wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the debate, I was not surprised by the questions raised by my fellow opposition Members, as we have already discussed them in the Economic Committee on the one hand and in the Legislative Committee on the other. I thought that with a relatively long expo, I would like to explain in detail what justified the submission of this bill, because I thought it would give you sufficient explanation for what was asked as a question. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There is no explanation!]] I can't deal with the accusations or accusations about the theft of 260 billion fortunes here. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: You can't do that!]] the protection of all kinds of hidden contracts; partly material errors and partly malicious political assumptions. Why are there some physical errors? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Stealing is a material mistake!]] Because you obviously know that foundations can manage the results of their founding property, so they can't squander their founding property. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Ah, they have never done it before!]] It was said by the representatives' contributions as if the foundations were not otherwise controlled, so if they did not manage public money, they would be free to raid the money entrusted to them. This is not the case, my fellow Members, because the civil society law specifically defines how foundations should operate, in what form, and it is the duty of the prosecution to monitor the functioning of the foundations. This draft legislation, which is now in front of Parliament, only tightens the reporting obligation for central bank foundations, as in the case of ordinary foundations they will not be subject to civil law, but they will have to report on public benefit each year, and in the public benefit report they will not only report on the reward or remuneration of employees and executives, but also on the effectiveness of their management. So I think that the data is available, with so many differences that it is not possible to keep trying to request data, but there is a mandatory obligation to provide data every year, which must also be made public by the foundations. I understand your constitutional concerns, since our interpretation of the classification of the funds entrusted to the foundations established by the central bank is fundamentally contrary, and this will obviously be decided by the Constitutional Court when this issue comes before it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If you see now that it's unconstitutional, then why wait for it? The president's ringing the bell.]] Overall, I think that the objectives that we have listed can be met by this legislation, and by adopting this legislation, we can make the functioning of the central bank even more flexible and we hope to make it even more effective. I would like to say one more thing to my honourable fellow Members. The National Bank has a special position as it operates as an independent institution. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Independent of what?]] By the way, I note that neither the Law on National Property nor the Law on State Property applies to the operation of the National Bank. Thus, if we look at the companies or foundations established by the central bank, and according to your interpretation of the law, the central bank has a direct influence on the foundations it has set up, then the foundations of the central bank are not subject to either the law on national assets or the law on state assets. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 3/A According to §2 (1) of the Act, a public task is a public task as defined by law and therefore a public task as defined by law. On this basis, the performance of the public service mission may be subject to statutory conditions and the legislation must provide for its supply arrangements. In this way, companies and foundations established by the National Bank do not perform a public task, and there are no such provisions of the Statute. So, in the light of the general government law, I think that, on the basis of this justification, it is true that foundations founded by the central bank do not perform a public task. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Embezzlement, then!]] According to Article 4 (1) of the Act, the public service mission is the statutory public service mission, so the public service mission is defined by law. On this basis, the performance of the public service mission may be subject to statutory conditions and the legislation must provide for its supply arrangements. In this way, companies and foundations established by the National Bank do not perform a public task, and there are no such provisions of the Statute. So, in the light of the general government law, I think that, on the basis of this justification, it is true that foundations founded by the central bank do not perform a public task. (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then embezzlement!) Obviously, we will not be able to fight this debate; we are in a different position in this regard. All my fellow Members can be sure of one thing: the only reason and the sole reason behind the proposal is that the central bank can act more effectively in terms of money market operations, ensure financial stability and prevent the issuance of securities issues that could jeopardise the interests of Hungarian investors. That is why we thought of changing the procedural deadlines, and at the same time obviously a wage arrangement, which, I think, based on the payment of the European central bank presidents that we have listed, is a realistic regulation, so it is not out of place. [[Nándor Gúr: Go! Let's go!]] and the reporting obligations of firms and foundations established by the central bank. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken today. I'm ordering a recess until decisions are made, 12 hours and 30 minutes. (Sunning: 12.10 - 12.33) President: István JakabMessenger: László Földi and István Ikotity)
u2016-03-01-73	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with a decision on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and please check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. If everyone is in position, we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the T/8341 Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/8341. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following the publication of the Agreement between the Organisation for Chemical Weapons and Hungary on the privileges and immunities of the OPCW is T/8487. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/8487/2. The Commission has submitted an adjustment to the text of the bill, which contains the authentic English language text of the international treaty and its official translation into Hungarian, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8487 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the T/8549 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the exchange and mutual protection of military classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/8549/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct spelling errors, which are available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8549 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted bill with 172 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. The T/8551 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8551 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 171 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/8674 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on international carriage of passengers and goods by road. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8674 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 173 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/8673 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Global Green Growth Institute on the publication of the status agreement detailing the privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth Institute. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8673/6. T/8673/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/867/9. No. 7 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the authentic text of the international treaty and its translation in the Hungarian language, which is available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8673/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 170 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/8673/8. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal by 172 votes to three, with no abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. Act T/8840 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8840/5. T/8840/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8840/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 54, with three abstentions. [[12.40]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/8840/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. The 2012 CLIX on postal services follows. T/8829. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8829/12. T/8829/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 6 and Jobbik Group No 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 117 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and three abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 118 against and three abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8829/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/8829/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. T/9379. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9379 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary follows the line. T/9380. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/9380/10. T/9380/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9380/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. [[Moraj on the opposition side.]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9380 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 118 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. [[Noise, whistle from the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles with the title T/8197. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik and his fellow Members, H/8849. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 28 votes in favour, 118 against and 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. (Sunning: 12.48 - 12.54) President: István JakabMessenger: László Földi and István Ikotity)
u2016-03-01-74	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, After you take your seats, we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, A political debate on the state of public education, which was initiated by József Tobias and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/9122 was given to them. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-03-01-75	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak within a nine-minute time frame. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-03-01-76	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate will count towards the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. The meeting room information board is open to all interested parties to monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity to explain the time frame. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-03-01-77	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that all political groups have taken the initiative to double their timeframe, so the distribution of the time frame is as follows. The Fidesz Group has 164 minutes, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-03-01-78	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-03-01-79	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! If this excellent opportunity has been created to talk about the issue of Hungarian public education, then perhaps it is worth starting with the point. Let's talk about the point. Let us talk about why the reform of the public education system was necessary from 2011 onwards, what the goals we set at the time were. We defined the purpose of the public education system in two main endeavours. One is quality education, quality competitive education, and the other is patriotic education. Both of them are equally needed if you want to be part of the 21st century. This century means not only individual but also community success. In the introduction to the Public Education Act, it could be said that the aim of community education is to teach Hungarian children how to think and speak Hungarian, to raise self-respecting Hungarian people with modern knowledge, who are committed to the fundamental values of the national community, and who are able to hold their place in XXI. In the first century, not only within Hungary, but also internationally. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Where are we now? To understand what situation we are in, we need to know where we started. We started from the fact that in 2010 the municipal system was about to collapse, in a state of bankruptcy that made it impossible and unsuitable for the maintenance of the school system. The municipal system has accumulated a debt of HUF 1260 billion, and where the maintenance bankruptcy is, the institutions are also bankrupt. In addition, the Socialist Government withdrew HUF 17 billion a year from the local government only by taking the 13th month's salary. If we count this when the wage increase started in 2012, when we tried to return this amount, then it is a total of HUF 78 billion. The PISA results also showed a depressing picture, as the results of both mathematics and science were severely deteriorated by 2012 compared to 2003. [[13.00]] When we talk about school closures, 1127 schools have lost their independence during your administration. And let's also talk about teacher discharges: more than ten thousand teachers have lost their jobs. This is a small town in Hungary. The main problem - so that I can, I trust, paddle into a little more consensual areas [[József Tobias: Difficult after all.]] - that he had no responsibility, that he had no clear responsibility for maintaining this system, in terms of quality or financing. The real lack of responsibility came to the point that, in 2010, when we took over government, there was no reliable data about how many teachers there were in Hungary, not to mention how much it would actually be necessary, nor how much it costs Hungary - including local governments and state funding - the school system. Therefore, I may say - together with the people present - that by that time, by 2010, there was a consensus that whatever happens after 2010, the maintenance role of the state must be strengthened. What did the lack of reliable data mean at the time? This is indeed a long story on which we had to set up the budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre in 2013, and it is true - we never hid it - that the first one was made on the basis of non-existent figures, let's say, a base budget that did not meet the real financing needs. What happened next? From 2011 we launched a reform with the new Public Education Act, one of the most important results of which is that today Hungarian families receive textbooks at a rate of HUF 15 billion cheaper than they have received so far. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They need it!]] And 60 percent of those who attend school get textbooks either for free or at a discount. We promised - I trust that this date can be brought forward - that by 2020, all elementary school students will have access to textbooks free of charge. With regard to children's meals, it can be said that even in Hungary, public funding has never provided so many children without paying for meals three times a day. If we go on to the work of those without whom, of course, the life of the school, public education cannot be imagined, then the career we have introduced has brought such a significant wage increase to the teachers that has not been experienced in the past twenty-five years. I would pick up one number here: for a five-year-old teacher with university education in high school, her salary increased from 135 thousand gross - I give 2011 data - to 227 thousand forints by 2015. That's 67 percent. Some get less than that, some get more. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would suggest to my fellow Members that you wait patiently until you are next. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They would have had the opportunity to put this system in order. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is it all right now? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I think we should take part in the debate with this restraint. I also consider it an important achievement that we have not closed a single institution, on the contrary, we have opened new ones, as we have undertaken to hold a lower school with eight children in the smallest settlement where they are required, if the parents and the municipality so request. I remember the 2012-2013 negotiations with representatives of trade unions, where there was a constant alarm that, if this system were to be implemented, tens of thousands of teachers would have to be dismissed. I'm reporting that no educator had to be dismissed. If they have such a good prognosis in other cases, it may be worth listening to others, not just you. And I didn't tell you about developments in both infrastructure and human development in the previous cycle. Indeed, with the launch of the government before 2010, we have already spent HUF 367 billion on the development of human and infrastructure in schools. I consider the Klebelsberg scholarship system to be the most progressive decision in this case, since we have already talked about teachers, which results in a significant increase in the number of applicants in the area of shortages today. Today, three years after the introduction of the scholarship system, 1237 people learn in teacher training by receiving a net scholarship of 75 thousand, 50 thousand or 25 thousand forints per month in order to make a living and therefore undertake to teach at Hungarian school in accordance with their training period. So it is no longer a career-seeking period for teacher training - certainly not for these people, 1237 people - but a real preparation for the teaching career. This also shows that the future generation, unlike many others, believes in the future of Hungarian education. And what we don't usually talk about, because the voice of small schools and rural schools is not as strong as those in central or elite schools, the fact that specialized care only increased by 30 percent by organizing the work of specialized teachers at the district level. So without qualifications, the number of teachers decreased significantly. Yet, we must also talk about the problems that also make the point of this day of debate. It is true that if a system is disintegrated, then in centralization, it is possible that one can go further than is necessary. We have never concealed that after the first centralization step, we need some kind of relaxation, some sort of facilitation, but to get the system up, we really created a very strict, monocentric, maintenance system. It has to be acknowledged that, indeed, this has been the imposition of employers' powers, and therefore, management responsibility is no longer as clear as it used to be, it needs to be partially restored. The one maintenance system is that we control over 100,000 teachers and thousands of schools from one centre, which also has its drawbacks. The first step forward in this case is that if you look at the vocational training system, you can see that two thirds of Hungarian public education today is managed by a maintainer, and one third in vocational training is managed by 40 maintainers. After the experience of this system, I believe that it is possible and necessary for us to take more steps in the Klebelsberg Institutional Support System, to decentralise this system with several maintainers. The new rating system is a major problem for teachers, in which I trust, otherwise, that no one doubts or doubts that it is impossible to measure someone's performance from the outside in a modern workplace today, in a competitive world. There has been such a system of supervision in Hungary before, linking this to the rating system is an important step forward. On the other hand, it has to be said that, indeed, due to the excellent proposals of the experts here, and that they have been partly taken over without restructuring, there has been an over-bureaucratized rating system, for which only such frightening words are used to say that it is a portfolio, and it is typical that a portfolio business has developed to do so, where, in the case of different counter-services, they are willing to create a teacher's portfolio from the outside. I think that this needs to be substantially changed, and I have been talking about this in the last few weeks, and there are measures that will make this rating system easier without giving up the essence of this without having an external evaluation linked to self-assessment and institutional evaluation that will help the educator not to feel alone on the field, and don't think that by closing the door to the classroom, no one else is actually interested in, hopefully, other than the parents, what is happening in that class. To give a terrifying example of overgrowth of the rating system: by evaluating it on the basis of 77 indicators, we ask for 77 indicator data for the evaluation criteria, and I do not think that this is necessary, while, of course, the rating system is necessary. The next problem with the definition of the base is, let's say, partial, temporary underfunding, which meant, and still today, that we had to add back the amounts, the funding to the public education system that we needed. I think that no one can argue that these amounts have always arrived, just not in time, partly because of the excessive bureaucracy of the distribution system, and partly because we managed this from one centre, and partly because it could not be, it was not possible to plan this system on the basis of realistic figures in 2013. [[13.10]] However, if we are allowed to talk about a kind of division of responsibilities in this case, let me say that it was a worse situation when, in addition to state funding, it was the responsibility of the municipalities. I think that the mixed funding system in which we are involved today is better, the mixed system, which says that operation and operation are, in principle, the responsibility of the municipalities, unless they resign because of the capacity of the municipality, and the maintenance is the responsibility of the State. If the municipality has renounced this, then the State must also operate and operate these schools. Still, to see the numbers. Today, it is a school in Hungary, in terms of the whole public education system, where the maintenance and operation of the state is limited to a total of 17 percent. So when we talk about problems in the operation, this or whatever is missing for the school's infrastructure, we talk about the responsibility of the state at 17 percent, the remaining part is run by a local government, or is operating by a church or a private or a foundation. I think it's worth thinking about, and I trust that beyond the likely inevitable political battle, we will also have the opportunity to talk to the truly competent ones about it in these few hours. [[Zoltán Pride: Then go home!]] how we can eliminate the disadvantages of this mixed-reserved system. When we started a job in September last year, how we could solve the problems with self-correction and internal correction that this new system raises, we organised a series of consultations, where in fact all state-reserved and therefore municipal-run schools - here we are talking about two thousand schools - had the opportunity to explain their problems to all state-owned schools, teachers and parents. We have collected 5,000 problems, at the top of which we have to say, and I think that will be the cause of the most puzzles, because other issues can be solved much more easily, the matter of the curriculum, or, let's say, the question of the overload of students and teachers. It's about the National Basics, whether it's a lot or not, whether it's really a lot of material, or if it's just misdistributed. After all, I would like to point out to my fellow Members a number that is based on the OECD surveys which have been cited frequently. In Hungary, a student spends an average of 5553 hours a year in school, the OECD averages 7571, which is the average of one student in a year. So I think it's worth asking the question of overburden, of a lot of teaching material, and I'll say a few more words about it when we talk about the distribution of this, and we're not just talking about what we're teaching, we're talking about how we're teaching all this. We also need to talk about what the core material is, what is required to be taught, and what is the ratio - today 90 percent to 10 percent, and we may be able to change that - that is decided by the local teachers, and what is the central requirement. If we are talking about the future, I must say to my fellow Members that the change will not be possible without us. So what I'm asking you to do is say that to those organisations of interest, professional or pseudo-professional interest in which you're trying to influence. It makes sense to talk about education when we are not talking separately, but together. That's why we created the round table for public education. I find it a bit comical that the Institute of Education of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is classified here as a semi-sounding buddy [[Nándor Gúr: Other places! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: The Minister of Defence!]] Or the organization of large families, where under three children, you can't really be a member. This means that if someone, by the way, is currently a teacher, has sent three children to school, then their children spend an average of 20 years in school. You have some experience with that. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: For us too!]] All the school principals and high school directors could ask you to consider those involved as buddies and suckers. I don't know what it's like for people who want to solve the problems of public education separately. They're probably not trying to solve it, they're trying to fry their political steak. [[György Balla: That's right!]] This is also possible in this country, because there is democracy [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: What are you happy about?]] But I think we should separate this. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] From the serious professional work that I think can be done. I can't do this without us, Congressman. He can't go with you. He can't do it without us. Let's talk about the problem of centralization. I have already mentioned that vocational training institutions taken over by the Ministry of National Economy organise the work of one third of public education through 40 educational centres. I think it's a model to follow. In the near future, Mr Secretary of State will talk about the future; I hope that he will be more popular in the opposition than I am talking about. I would just like to define a few directions on how to reorganise institution maintenance so that schools can start in this system from September 2016 and this decentralisation will take place. With regard to bureaucracy and its reduction, I think we have already taken significant steps that we do not want to undo in any way. In self-esteem, in all the paperwork that made it difficult to grasp the real meaning of this case, we need to step back. One of the measures I signed with yesterday's schedule, with a guide, is that... [[Noise from the opposition benches.]] If you don't listen, you won't be able to tell your constituents any more. [[It's a lot of noise. Márton Gyöngyösi: Let's understand!]] Those who are seven years ahead of retirement do not need to be qualified, but automatically the teacher II. they are classified in category 1. [[Why are you making this up now?]] I'm telling the people who listen. Those who were temporarily qualified in the teacher II, because they had such professional qualities that they needed their work, can remain in the teacher II without qualification, of course. I think that's a significant step forward. The most important thing that we are planning - to do so, we need a legislative amendment, and we still have a few battles to fight here - is to abolish the mandatory nature of certification by 2018. This will be an opportunity. Anyone who thinks that he would qualify and want to be included in the next category, the teacher will decide whether or not he wishes to do so or not, will not be classified in this case. You have already heard the news that, in contrast to the billions that you have taken out of this system, the socialists have taken out 17 billion forints a year, and at the last government meeting, it was decided that we have 38 billion forints plus for funding this semester. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: And you took a hundred!]] By the end of the academic year, we would like to present to the government the new funding system that, we trust, can run schools effectively. I would again like to point out to those who may have a professional interest that we must consider mixed reservations together. I could leave to the end what was most important to parents and students today: this is obviously the sentence where students talk about learning a lot. I think we need to deal with this on its right weight and place. But the curriculum that is in the National Basic Study Plan makes sense to re-examine it - we are, of course, constantly reviewing and studying the extra burden of introducing this curriculum on students and teachers - if we are to think about how we want to teach it in schools. When we talked about the nine-class primary school as a proposal, as a plan, and we also decided not to introduce it in this cycle, we wanted to launch a debate on what system to teach in these nine years what is in the National Basics. Our proposal is that it is worth considering that the first three years really focus on writing, reading, strengthening speech skills, and protecting our children from public knowledge. The second three years may have this task, and after the sixth grade it is worth considering that some kind of career orientation may already be possible. It is also worth considering that if I listen to the representatives of the High Schools, who represent the elite schools in Hungary today, they say that teaching them the National Basics is not a problem of any kind, but that is clearly different in a less-favoured area. [[13.20]] So it is also worth considering how to divide the burden of the curriculum, if not for schools, but in any case for groups starting at a disadvantage, it is worth thinking about how to use summer vacations to give certain things that fall behind in the system of public education an extra opportunity to those who need it. This could be about the division of the school year. The good news at the end is that in the next EU development period, which has already started, and partly the announcements have been made, we want to spend HUF 230 billion on developing the infrastructure and human capacity of schools. For this HUF 230 billion, I would like to add as good news that we would like to give very little of this to the experts who set up the previous system and suggested that we set it up. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-80	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. Before I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, I ask my fellow Members with due respect - every group has the opportunity to take part in the debate - to abide by that famous parliamentary form, now that they are debating the future, the fate of the future generation. Allow me to ask you with due respect. I now give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-01-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. I also welcome the union leaders in the MSZP expert box. The Socialist Group initiated a debate on the state of public education. In doing so, I think that the starting point should be stated. The starting point is that school, education is for children, it must work for children, and in our approach, the child must work first. We have their interests in mind when we define the objectives of public education when we establish the conditions for operation, and in future decisions as well. So our goal is to give Hungarian children and Hungarian students competitive knowledge and to give educators an appreciation for their work. In 2010, ladies and gentlemen, we took over an education system, one of which we inherited hundreds of billions, by the way, from which the Socialist-Free Democratic Government has withdrawn, not least. We were talking about an education system in ruins. This was already in 2007 - already in 2007 - the then Minister of Education, who was called István Hiller [[Dr. István Hiller: That's my name right now.]] , admitted on 10 September 2007 on Freedom of Speech, when György Baló asked whether the situation of education was better now or five years earlier, Minister Hiller admitted that he had been better five years earlier, so in 2002. And when you also asked when a villager had a better chance of going to higher education, now, or five years earlier in 2007, Minister Hiller admitted that five years earlier. So practically, my fellow Members, even at that time the socialists themselves knew that what they were doing, along with the free democrats, had brought education to ruins and bankruptcies. Well, we had to take one of these, fellow Members. And let's add that for the outside viewer, it seems that the MSZP didn't even have an educational program. In 2006 István Hiller signed a 163-point action program with SZDSZ, Bálint Magyar, in which he believed that the Hungarian Bálint oeuvre would continue. If you'll allow me, I'd like to quote a few points because it's telling and telling. Cynically Knowledge for All! under heading 163, the following was written in point 6: . We retain the system of text evaluation with real pedagogical values. Well, if there was a serious administrative burden on teachers, ask them, when the text assessment had to be done, then everyone's hair was standing for the sky. This administrative burden was also acknowledged by Minister Hiller in December 2006 when he attended the Labour Congress of the Teachers' Union. In 163 he believes that this will be preserved, and then at this convention he says: "The bureaucratic burden of Hungarian teachers is excessive and affects and hinders quality work in a decisive way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, technically, you guys admitted it nicely, and you kept it up. Interestingly, the trade unions didn't notice that double speech at the time. The 67th point is particularly interesting, and the following is defined here:. It is necessary to increase the number of hours required for teachers from 20 to 22, from 1 September 2007, and to require that the employer, in addition to compulsory teaching sessions, assign an additional occupation to teachers for up to two hours a week, if necessary. As a transitional arrangement, the employer may order four hours a week from 1 September 2006. There will be no compensation for the hours thus ordered. The value of this, if expressed in forints, was clearly stated by András Tatai-Tóth, then a socialist representative, forint 35 billion. This was an order for additional work without payment. Interestingly, this triggered a two-hour warning strike at the PDSZ, and it did not hit a threshold of stimuli greater than that of the Teachers' Union. László Varga, the then president of the PDSZ, said: "Let's make it a better atmosphere for the employees of public education, because if we achieve this, performance will be better. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In point 7, faith was made to preserve the rule that students can be sentenced to a repeat of the year only with the consent of the parent in the first three years of the school. And then we are surprised that there are problems of understanding and calculating texts, and the proportion of these has increased and socialised the children that there is no consequence of non-compliance. Where does this lead, please? ! Would that be in the interest of the children, or would that be a way to raise them to gain competitive knowledge? And so, in paragraph 78, they said, "With the reform of pedagogical training, as part of the Bologna training, the number of newly issued graduates will be reduced to about 40 percent from 2011. And then we wonder how special care difficulties and problems have arisen. This is what you have believed, and now you are asking me how and how we stand in the field of public education. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Dr. István Hiller: Is this the debate on the 2006 government programme?]] - Ladies and gentlemen, you were one of the ones who initiated today's debate, so it would be good to take a look at who did what and what they did not do in these areas. By the way, I'm sure you'll be able to tell me what your position is. And I don't want to talk about the reduction of norms and other things any longer, because everyone knows that most of the norms almost halved the values between 2002 and 2010. I think that the weight of this problem was already felt by trade unions around 2008 because, at their conference in Balatonfüred, between the programmes and the objectives, they clearly stated that they wanted to recognise the social importance of educational work, to restore the prestige of the teaching field, to improve the living conditions of teachers - this is the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, after 2010, the civilian government does so systematically and systematically, and that is what it will do in the future. Because of these serious problems, it was therefore inevitable to adapt the public education system and to go beyond these educational conditions before 2010. The career and wage increase are clearly a sign that the government and the governing parties are trying to appreciate the work of teachers in a material sense. [[Dr. István Hiller: It just doesn't work.]] There is no other sector in Hungary where such a predictable wage increase would otherwise have occurred. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And that, by the way, has the first tangible result. Then, of course, Congresswoman Timea Szabó can give her opinion. The number of candidates for teaching careers increased by 50 percent, this is 2014-2015 data. [[13.30]] If you look at the teacher's wages, just allow me, let me say one thing: the peak of the track that can be completed - yet the essence of the predictable career is to see the end, the horizon -: a university-educated research teacher at the top of the field can earn a half-million-dollar salary. In addition to nominal increases in teachers' wages, the real value of income has also increased significantly. Let us not forget, however, that in recent years there has been a very significant reduction in the rent that has affected society as a whole. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] family tax incentives, personal income tax reductions, VAT reductions, this has affected all members of society, including teachers. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] If you don't believe all this, clearly you don't believe it, then allow me to quote you. I can provide very specific data from my own narrower country, Debrecen - I am a Member there. The director of the Vörösmarty Mihály Primary School, in his official report of 12 February 2014, reads: we all believe that the September wage increase was considered significant, and we were all pleased about it. In contrast to the arguments put forward by the trade unions, we teachers in the East really felt the wage increase, since we did not have overtime, we did not receive any extra pay or cafeteria. Indeed, in everyday life, our wages have increased considerably. In my view, Hungarian society expects higher performance from the system of public education for increasing wages financed by public funds. The socialists, right, raised the weekly number to 22, and there were also four hours for which no extra funding was assigned. In reality, teachers usually spent 30-35 hours in school even then, which the socialists did not acknowledge at all financially. After 2010, the civilian government did that, in essence, it recognised this practice in the language of the law when it was recorded that it had to spend 32 hours a week in school. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] To speak the truth - I say to Mr Gúr - András Czellér, Director of the Lilla Téri Primary School, wrote in February 2014: the 32-hour mandatory stay did not in essence change much. Teachers have been in there for 35 to 38 hours, filled with the same tasks as they are now. Substitution has already been provided, as is the case now, because during the municipal reserve, we could not pay deputy money. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is also speaking for itself. The civilian government, on the other hand, has raised the basic wages. The director of the Bocskai István Primary School writes that there were a significant number of people who said that working hours did not involve any increase in working time or extra work, because they had spent so much time in school and had done a number of tasks. For them, the plus was the need to administer their extra activity beyond compulsory occupations. There were also teachers who were not happy and criticized the new system. They were the ones who were no longer in the institution after a short period of time after their compulsory hours and occupations, who really spent much less time in school than they are at the moment. Katalin Barabásné Valéria Vályi, director of Attila József Primary School; the name will be important, ladies and gentlemen, because she is the mother of Richard Barabás, the politician of the Ensemble. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who sniffed this out? Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] This will be interesting because it tells us about how you feel about education, and it also tells you that clearly the activists of the Together do not consult on such matters at home. He writes: as an advantage of fixed working hours, we have found that the division of ad hoc replacements has been easier, and there are more opportunities to discuss and exchange experiences between teachers. At the same time, there is a problem in many cases with the 32-hour time frame set as a limit, in Hungarian: you could imagine more than 32 hours. The following feedback was received from many schools in relation to fixed working hours: more effective tutoring, talent management, training for competitions, increased professional meetings of working communities, increased contact with parents, increased student self-government activity. Ladies and gentlemen, What if it's not for the kids or the students? Or, if you think otherwise, you probably don't think in the system of public education, you don't consider public education important. In the OECD average, there is a difference not only in terms of hours between Hungary and the OECD average, as the Minister said, but also in terms of teacher-student ratio. This was the case in Hungary not only now, but also earlier, during the governing of the socialists, and the teacher-student ratio is more favourable than in OECD countries. Compared to this, all student performance, all existing measurements show a relapse. There's obviously something wrong here, something needs to be fixed. I think that, when we are talking about bureaucratic burdens, this is justified and justified in many respects, but, fellow Members, let us not forget one thing - I would like to say in closing - both in teacher ratings and in self-assessments. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you ever seen anything like this up close? Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] they have been tested, measured and consulted in a number of institutions at the time of institutional evaluations. These opinions were made by teachers and schools. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these have meant that the feedback was not so terrible at the time as many people are now living up to it. Ladies and gentlemen, Moreover, these opinions were once sufficiently paid - they ran in pilot projects. [[Szabó Timea: What project?]] Thank you very much. [[Noise in opposition benches. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-82	Thank you, Congressman. I am still asking my fellow Members, before we continue our work, that there is no dialogue, that every faction has the opportunity to speak. [[Zoltán Balog: What school did you go to to to behave like this? Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yes, you can listen to the speakers, fellow Members, that is what the story is about. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two Members. First, I give the floor to József Tobias, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-01-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to welcome the representatives of the Teachers' Union, the representatives of the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, the representatives of the Public Education and Vocational Training Workers' Union and the President of the Association of History Teachers, who is also the spokesperson of the Alternative Public Education Platform. [[Szabó Timea and the MSZP representatives applaud.]] It is important, because they are debating what has been said so far, pro-government representatives, what is in public education and what has been in comparison with the past, and this shows that they do not understand what is happening in Hungary today. Minister said a production conference, in which you did not lack the party policy aspect of how you are progressing. I would have liked it if you had at least announced that you had thought about your resignation, you would have thought that you were the head of the top department in which all the signs of the social crisis in Hungary are shown: in the fields of education, health, social and cultural affairs. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Wake up! Lajos Korózs: That's right!]] I would have been pleased if he had the ability to correct himself and recognized why teachers, students and parents were protesting the system. But I understand precisely from your speech that you still speak and think that you think education, public education is a sectoral issue, and that within the sector you need to tell me why it will be better for the teacher, why it will be better for the parent and why it will be better for the child. They do not realize that when we talk about public education, we are talking about the future of Hungary, the future of our children, and in order to understand this, we have to say that there is a very deep crisis in Hungary today. You're hurting our society. Inequality has only increased in all areas of life, the poor have become poorer, the vulnerable have become even worse, more starving children. [[13.40]] The quality of education has deteriorated dramatically, not creating the chance for the next generation to rise. The number of people living in extreme poverty is increasing. Employee poverty is unacceptably high. A significant proportion of Hungarian households have no savings. The situation of emigration, education and health is an ongoing one in a hopeless situation. The present is ruined, the future is revived. The real Hungary... - and what we should argue about today show in its data what Hungary really looks like today. In Hungary, graduates live more than ten years longer than the least students. In Hungary, the family background largely determines the fate of children. The situation at birth determines later social status. School doesn't reduce social differences, it preserves social differences. Children recreate the social situation of their parents: the poor become poor, the elite, the privileged are now creating privileged ones. By reducing high school places, reducing higher education, the chances of social mobility are decreasing. This is a major contribution to the escalation of migration. In recent years, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots have been forced to go to work abroad, due to the lack of prospects for conditions here. The VET system, Minister, is completely underdeveloped. Few people finish it, there's a huge gap in professional training. The number of people in Hungary who can speak at least one foreign language is low. They've closed the mobility channels. This leads to hopelessness and a sense of hopelessness. They talk about models of life, which in reality seem to be a kind of magic trick, because in reality they do not show a minimum of respect, not just material appreciation, but professional appreciation, social appreciation. But there is no debate between us, because what is being said here and what has been said in the media in the last few weeks, and what Szilárd Németh has said today in his speech before the agenda, is exactly what you think of the pedagogical society. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Shame! Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] To accuse the pedagogical society of demanding wages, even if I maintain the need to raise wages in this sector - they did not stand up for themselves, they stood up for the future, so that they would not take away their future. The knowledge of the Hungarian students in an international comparison, it doesn't matter that the Minister is now magical with the numbers as the Prime Minister does in his year-end evaluation. [[Zoltán Balog: I take it as a compliment.]] Unfortunately, the results, the facts speak for themselves: they are worse than they were in 2009. Dear Minister, The digital revolution in which we live, I hope you do not want to say that you want to stop it, like everything else, completely changed our lives and changed the labour market, both the potential and the hierarchy of those living in our society. It's not something to stop, it's something to live with, it's something to adapt to. Some of the questions that it would be good to have today's debate, and the Minister will tell us in his closing statement what his position is on this. What changes are needed in order to switch from a sector that requires lower quality knowledge to higher added value sectors? How can we coordinate education and the economy? In what direction should the vocational training system and skills education be developed? And what kind of education system is needed to really create the potential for social mobility for everyone? How can we make sure that the family background, the zip code, doesn't determine who can be in this country? How can we once again make internationally competitive the knowledge that Hungarian students and schools have acquired over the past decades? How can we make every young person speak at least one foreign language by the time he starts working, and what circumstances need to be improved so that more people decide to have children? What steps do we need at home in this room to say that we can manage at home? What does it take to lure back our countrymen who have gone abroad? What tools can we use to help young people get work and housing? And what does it take for everyone to have access to digital knowledge? - that digital Hungary should not be a pamphlet in national consultation, but that it should have a reality content. All existing recommendations talk about the development of skills and education in the 21st century. The key issue of the century. The competitiveness of a society and the growth of its economy depend on the educational system in which our students can learn, develop their skills, and whether teachers are given the freedom to choose the best tools and methods to improve the knowledge and skills of our children. Now, that's what you've taken away over the years. Nothing but this. And the question here is not whether it is possible to correct the wrong system that does not exist, but whether there is a new system. It doesn't have to be centralized. The best form of decision-making is whatever, but it's got to be on the spot. Local authorities, local communities, know and understand the specifics of their settlement, know their problems, give back to them, to local communities the freedom of choice to decide whether they want to establish the base of education, the knowledge space locally, or trust in what they have not seen in recent years. My fellow Member, Pósan, lists anything here as some examples, because the reality as a parent, citizen and opposition leader is that we cannot squander the future. Now, by all means, with the ability to make a correction, you are unable to change. This debate is not because we initiated it. This debate is because society, parent, student and educator have asked for a change in the system. A system change in public education must be carried out. Either you start it, or there will be another government who will take the first step. Thank you.
u2016-03-01-84	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, another lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-03-01-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Minister. In Hungary and not only in Hungary, where they talk and think about education, cooperation and agreement can be based on one and only one thing, if the child is at the heart of our thinking in education and public education. Anyone who confesses to this can speak in a common language with someone who doesn't say so, as long as he doesn't say so, there is no common language with him. This is the language from 1990 to 2011. This was not considered important by parties, but by governments and successive governments. You have denounced this consensus when you banished the mandatory recommendation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child from the law called Public Education on the best interests of children. I sincerely ask and suggest that what was wrong in 2011 will be replaced and corrected. I do not wish to respond to the late debate of the 2006 government programme, which is now being revived by a Member ten years later, as I know the Member as a better historian than he said here in a lukewarm way, but I would only ask the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament with respect that, if possible, they observe the events for a decade in plenary, try to hit at least the century in writing. [[Delight and applause in the benches of the MSZP.]] On the basis of this, it is clear that there is a need for systemic change. The systemic change in relation to the aforementioned institution-centred public education - that is what you are doing - is to switch to child-centred public education. [[13.50]] It must be said and made clear that your public education focuses on the institution-support centre named after poor Klebelsberg and its operation. Then let me be clear: as long as there is a CLIK, there is no systemic change in education. As long as the KLIK works in this way, the quality of Hungarian public education will not improve. The question is not that there is a big CLIK, or 19 smaller klikcsékkéke, because the operation does not change. Therefore, in order to be clear, we want the KLIK removed, and if it is up to us, we will terminate the Institutional Support Centre. This CLIK, ladies and gentlemen, is an institutional enemy of local decisions. The CLIK is the institutionalized enemy of professional autonomy. As long as there is a CLIK, there is no free education in Hungary. As long as the KLIK works like this, the teacher is free to teach. You've moved fear into the classrooms with the KLIK - get him out of there! At the same time, I don't just want to judge. My suggestion - please consider - is that after five years, after the adoption of the so-called national public education law, you cannot, in the knowledge of the experience, assume that everything can go as it is. I propose that the municipalities should once again be institutional supporters. I am not saying that the municipalities should be institutional supporters, but I want Szeged, Miskolc, Veszprém, Győr, Pécs, Sopron, Debrecen, the districts of Budapest to be school towns again. Let them and they want them to be institutionkeepers. In any case, that's what we're going to represent. At the same time, I think it is necessary to say that this system can work if the approach of the current national basic curriculum is given up. This lexical-centered NAT is old, avive, irreparable. Please return to what we have shared, and the so-called output points, regulations, lexical knowledge and competence must return to an appropriate mix. You have to give back the rights of the school principals. In Hungary, teachers must be given back the freedom of teaching. It is a shame that the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced from 18 to 16 years! [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Wash this disgrace, restore it! The age limit for compulsory education, please raise it the way we wanted it to. The bureaucratic burden of teachers needs to be reduced. This portfolio method doesn't make any sense. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, in summary - thank you very much for your patience, Mr President - do not push, do not work, accept the professional proposal that Hungary needs a new law on public education. That's what we're gonna want. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are here on a debate day on the state of public education, which was jointly proposed by opposition parties - proposed by József Tóbias and Márton Gyöngyösi in a signatory letter [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: wow! Now what?]] two Members who have spoken about it several times before [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: We have the personalization! Now talk about public education. Sit down.]] that they won't sign a joint statement with the other one, because one with the other [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] New Fascism, the other, means the out-of-date socialist government, and yet a joint declaration has now been signed, proposing today's political debate. This also indicates that [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The First of Novak: There's a big problem, that's why!]] Why this topic is being discussed in Parliament, as I do not believe that a teacher in Hungary believes that 200 or 199 Members of Parliament are speaking for 8 hours from their party political point of view, because the previous speech also shows that we can expect this to happen 8 hours a day, well, that he talks about this issue, that will make his everyday problems less, or that his everyday problems will decrease. They also do not think that politicians have initiated this debate day to make a substantial improvement in the situation of schools today. This political debate will take place because the opposition wants to designate the issue of public education as the main area of politics. There is no model of solution, it has been revealed from today's speeches before the agenda and from the previous ones, that you want to talk about this problem as a political area. [[Dr. István Hiller: I just told you! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: He can't hear it!]] And he doesn't come up with any sort of solution. It is not an option to go back to where we were before 2010 because everyone rejected the situation at the time, as I will return to it. [[Dóra Dúró: You've solved a lot of things, Bence!]] And he said that the situation could no longer be maintained. It is therefore clear that political actors are appearing everywhere, whether they are protests or petitions. If you look at who is really organizing the protests for the teaching ceremony, the PM in Sopron, the Deputy President of the Dialogue for Hungary, the candidate for the local government representative of the LMP at the protest in Győr [[Dr. András Schiffer: There is no municipal representative! Dóra Dúró: They don't have a representative!]] In Veszprém, a representative of the Veszprém DK, a former MSZP member, an activist of the Solidarity Movement in Szombathely, the Joint, who, by the way, posts gypsy jokes [[Dóra Dúró: Wow!]] In Pécs he is the office manager of the Liberal Party, the leader of a movement in Szeged who said that he would be part of all government change initiatives, also in Hajdúszoboszló [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What are you, a detective authority?]] Former Representative in Miskolc during the period of MSZP [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Nándor Gúr: That's all you know, Bence!]] and who are those who are partying to the debate on this issue. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Aren't you ashamed? The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: It's outrageous!]] But when we talk about the establishment of a civil education platform, we can also see that the spokesperson - that he was not - was there when the government had to protest against migration [[Zoltán Grimlock: What happens now? You're taking them away? Are the skinheads coming or what?]] and there he was with those who were ruining the posters, there he was when the government's social policy was criticised with the title "National Minimum" and there they are now when it comes to education. It seems to them that protesting against the government is most important, not the situation of education, not public education. He was very much agreed by both 199 representatives and ten million Hungarians when István Hiller said that all public education debates should be about children - this is the sentence that everyone would agree with [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Start slowly! You didn't say one sentence before.]] However, these facts, whether they are protests or movements or alternative round tables, prove that it is not because of children that they enter the current public education debate, but because they want to carry on previous political debates with public education content and with public education slogans. And, you know, it is. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP to the ranks of experts of the governing parties: Don't nod! Comb your hair back there.]] it is repulsive when people who appear as critics and express their views as independent experts, which is then referred to here by our opposition colleagues, who have been actively involved in the construction of this system. Some people, for example, run the Civil Education Platform, who said sentences that I would quote only one of them, that the education policy performance of the 2010 cab revolution is a complete failure and, as such, unsuitable in all tastes. It's inconvenient in all its tastes - let's taste this sentence like this. This man is the senior advisor to a kft., called Expanzió Kft., who - pay attention to all parts of the taste - took 45 million forints from the Education Office for research and development innovation activity in 2012. [[Dóra Dúró: Why did you pay for it? Who paid for it?]] Then in 2013 the company took HUF 10 million twice and HUF 19 million for R &amp; D, various electronic study analyses, and then in 2014 HUF 5 million for change management, 30 million for social science, human development, research - in all tastes of the, please remember! Anyone who criticizes the fact that it is inoperable in all its tastes, how much flavor he has contributed in this special kitchen - for 30 million forints with social science research, development, and so on. Or even with OFI, educational research and development institutes with a summary of studies, talent management, research and development activities or background studies - one with 6 million, another with 8 million, then 12 million, and then 24 million. The people who are now one of the biggest critics of this system, the public education system that has just been built, who call themselves civilian experts [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The children are the biggest critics, Bence!]] and they say that in all its tastes it's unbearable [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] They themselves gave salt, pepper and other spices the taste to build this system. It's a kind of hypocrisy on the part of many experts who call themselves civilians, as if any of us were going to an architect, saying that my dear friend, design a house for me, design a house, build a house, and then this architect goes up to the client and says, "Oh, you've built an ugly house." But, my dear friend, you've been there all along, drawing every line on the plans! [[14.00]] There are many who have been there in the last few years for planning, they have been there for the performance, so, in this case, let us say, this company has 200 million forints - but there could be many, many more similar examples, and there we could find even numbers with one more zero, and even two more zeros - and now, as a civilian expert, they say to the structure they have built, that it is unstable, untenable and unbearable in all tastes, even in the flavors they have mixed up. I think the socialists today will have relatively little opportunity to boast or to list their own achievements. Here, my fellow Member quoted the Socialists' opinion of themselves, that in 2002 a villager had an even greater chance of further education and that the system of public education contained less injustice. So, if we figure out how much money the Socialists took out from the education system between 2002 and 2010, we may not be able to reach the full summary by the end of the 8-hour debate. But it is certain that only by taking the 13th month's wage, 17 billion forints were taken from the public education system and from the pockets of all Hungarian teachers. From those teachers who have not been dismissed during that period, from the institutions that have not been closed during this period, but I will return to this. This represents HUF 78 billion in total, with only one measure, the amount deducted by taking the 13th month's wage. The total amount is hundreds of billions of forints. The socialists took this money out of the public education system, we put it back, and we plan to put back more than they took out. [[Lajos Korózs: You and 300 billion!]] From the leaders of the Socialist Party, we heard general, beautiful horse-zung to talk about the future of the children and to make the children better, said the leader of the Socialist Party. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Still not talking about the point! Noise from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They were thinking about the future of children when they were indebted to the country, taking out loans when they took out the money they themselves spent. [[Intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Government debt has never been so high! Don't talk like that.]] And they said that the kids and grandchildren would pay it back, and they were still talking about the future of the children at the government meeting and the MSZP faction meeting? When the tuition was introduced, was it still in your mind that it would be better for the children? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Aren't you sinking? Noise from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So that's the new foundation? And do you still think, my fellow socialists, that it was the right decision? From the big yeses, I can conclude that it was the right thing to do. Socialists therefore confirm at today's public education debate that tuition fees should be introduced [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Liar! Christian man doesn't lie! You're lying! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And that would be the way to transform public education? We're still here for seven and a half hours, and you'll have a chance to explain that to me. When I heard Mr Tobias speaking, really if I close my eyes and just listen to that passage, I thought that someone was arguing for the creation of the KLIK, he said so nicely that children who were studying in rural schools, children with difficult fates, children who were socially disadvantaged, should be given the opportunity to learn in the same way as those who live under better circumstances. Well, what's the solution to that if it's not a state reservation? Tell the Socialist Party. He says their goal is to give all children the same opportunity to learn and prosper. In the municipal reservation system, we know I can quote the OECD, but I can even bring it from their own minister. [[Noise from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Varga: You didn't listen to what we talked about!]] We couldn't do this, the differences increased. Then what you have just said here, Mr. Tobias Group Leader [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] that was the maintenance of public institutions [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: How many children do you have? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and the argument in favour of KLIK. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] We've heard a lot of criticisms today, and we'll hear it later and on other days, but we've never heard a solution. [[Zoltán Lukács: Have you ever seen a kindergarten on the inside?]] the responsibility or role of the municipalities. I would also like to say again that the municipality is still the operator of a large part of the schools and the majority of the institutions of the students; when we talk about such issues, whether they are operating there, it is important to know that the operation is being carried out by the municipalities in the case of a large part of the students. But let's look at a couple of numbers that are exactly what the system that pre-state maintenance system has brought to the teachers. He brought 17,000 redundant teachers. Then, of course, we didn't really see any major strikes or protests about it, neither a petition nor the introduction of children to school. He brought 381 new padlocks, which had to be bought to be put on the school building permanently, because no one went in or out from there. The kind of model that the socialists have carried for eight years [[Zoltán Haughty: And how many have you taken off?]] Although there was a semi-transmitted error or omission, the biggest mistake was to allow the liberals to pass through the field of education for years, if they hadn't done so, the problem might have been smaller in 2010, but they didn't, so 381 jobs were locked on the doors of the school buildings. In some of these cases, we've reopened schools. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Three cases! Three!]] However, this has resulted in the dismissal of 17,000 teachers. Not to mention the establishment of a financing system that consciously calculated less money in the central budget than the actual cost to the municipalities of the school. That's why, among other things, the municipalities had to be consolidated, because they told the school-supporting authorities that they had to maintain the school, I gave them money, and I didn't look at how you added the rest. It was a hypocritical attitude. It was nice to even advertise a public employee's wage increase, but after four months they forgot to give it their cover, and that is why the municipalities in Hungary were indebted to them in eight years. As Margaret Thatcher said, she has never known a socialist government that would have paid off the loans that she had taken, and this is no different in Hungary or in this regard. Here again, in the socialist period, loans were taken in, bonds were issued, and then in the Fidesz-KDNP period they had to be repaid. We can see that where the socialists still govern, for example in Szeged, five kindergartens are closed, one of the most expensive is student rentals in terms of public transport. Where Jobbik governs, for example, in Tisavasvári, the capital of Jobbik, as Gábor Vona said, the Legion of Honor is called in to find a way to clean up after five years of better city management or city management, and to introduce the Vérpataki model. When Ozdon the Socialists They got the chance to run the city. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Ozdon?]] they didn't buy yellow school buses, they bought yellow convertibles. [[Moore from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] 'Cause the moment they're in power, it's not in the public interest. [[Dóra Dúró: 600 thousand HUF car!]] It's not the school bus that comes to mind right away, it's your own personal well-being. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Compared to what he gave, what Fidesz-KDNP could give by making Hungarian people [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Can we now farm large amounts of his work? We've managed to introduce a wage increase. [[Noise.]] [[Noise.]] This is every year (Noise) , every year it meant a surplus of HUF 32 billion in teachers' wages from 2012 to 13, HUF 120 billion in teacher's wages from 2013 to 14 and HUF 32 billion in HUF 34 billion in the following year. That's all the money that's in the teachers' pocket now. This is due, among other things, to the Klebelsberg Scholarship that now one and a half times as many young people at the age of 18 apply to teachers as they did five years ago, because there was a downward career in the teaching profession. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why can't you still copy in schools? That's what you're talking about.]] , he had a lower social profile, and they spent 11 percent less of the declining GDP on public education. We have also started to increase the financial prestige of the teaching field, and we will do it again this year and next year, and this has made the teaching field one and a half times popular among young people. Free textbooks are now part of family support in the lower school and then in the system that goes up. This year he'll be in the first four classes from September 1st. When Mr. Tobiah talks about the growing number of starving children, perhaps he would like to see how much more children are given to them in kindergarten, nursery and school today than before. The amount, as you know, rose from HUF 29 billion to HUF 70 billion. These are all intended to reduce these social differences. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] Allow me one more quote that showed or presented the failure of liberal education policy. This is a 2012 research carried out by the European Commission in precisely the last few weeks, which said that the impact of youth social, economic background and school placement on school performance [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] was the most significant, one of the most significant within the European Union. That is why Hungary had to act, because the schools were bankrupt financially, because they had low funding and low content, which is why the change had to take place in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Hoffmann Roses: Bravo!]]
u2016-03-01-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the faction. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[14.10]]
u2016-03-01-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Listening to the lead speaker of KDNP, a lot of feelings have taken you by heart. But the only feeling is that we are not listening to the new István Barankovics. That feeling didn't get over me. And since Bence Rétvári has said how it can happen that József Tobias and Márton Gyöngyösi are starting a debate day on a curve, I can say that this is almost unbelievable, it cannot happen that these two people are collecting on the same sheet. I really need you for this. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] This can only happen when your government has a policy of education like that. I can see that this was an unorthodox move, but unfortunately, your policy forced this. Education is, in our opinion, not one of many sectors, but perhaps the most important sector in which, as has already been said several times today, but unfortunately with few specifics, the Hungarian future and the Hungarian present depend and decide. By the way, I think the formula is very simple: the country, the government that provides financial and social respect for this sector, creates a successful country and is a successful government. Whichever doesn't - and you won't - is a failed government, and it's creating a failed country. The last 26 years have been an almost continuous fall in Hungarian public education. If someone who hasn't been following politics has been watching this debate, what has he seen? He saw Fidesz say that the MSZP ruined Hungarian education. I'll tell you the truth, I agree with that. Then he saw that according to the MSZP, Fidesz continued to destroy education, and Fidesz took the education policy in the wrong direction. I agree with that, too. I also agree with Fidesz saying that we must not go back to the education policy of the MSZP. We agree with him. Just as we agree, when the MSZP says that the path to which Fidesz has taken education policy must go away. We agree with that, too. The thing is, what's happening right now is that Fidesz and MSZP are inexcusably XX. He's having a 100th-century debate. It happened that the leaders of the governing parties, Fidesz and KDNP talked about everything but what they've been doing for the past six years. Inexcusably XX. It's a century-old debate. I'm gonna have to stop here a little bit, 'cause XX. 1st century versus XXI. As a political fact in Hungarian public life, it can explain not only education policy, but many other areas to those who do not understand how things can happen in Hungary. The thing is, there are two XXs. Party of the century, Fidesz and MSZP, and there are two XXI. The party of the century, Jobbik and LMP, and we have a very, very serious generation, political generation gap. While I'm in the same generation as Retvári Bencé, I still feel that politically I'm dealing with a Matuzsalem, a messenger of a past century, a lost century. These two are XX. The party of the century is occupied with each other. None of them talked about what should be done with public education, what should be done with education. One was talking about the MSZP being so bad, and the other was talking about Fidesz being so bad. This does not lead to anything, and it is particularly harmful to Hungarian education policy in this debate as well. To learn from all this, neither the Fidesz nor the MSZP will solve the situation of education in Hungary. On the one hand, for their own incompetence. I do not mean that this is a professional incompetence, God forbid to say this, because both parties have very serious and knowledgeable politicians, but simply the XX. Because of their incompetence in the political generation of the century. On the other hand, based on the experience of the past 26 years, which makes you both uncredited to the pedagogical community, or at least most of it, and not politically manipulated. So the solution is waiting for a future government, we hope for a Jobbik government from 2018, but in the meantime, there is a task, which is the compensation, the damage relief, the relief or resolution of the problems, if any, from the opposition that you have accumulated here. We launched the initiative of a genuine national consultation in 2016, which, in addition to corruption and health, aims to focus precisely on the area of education and to ask the opinion of Hungarian society on these issues. But I would also like to advise you with the greatest good intentions and sincere hope that the politicians of Fidesz and KDNP will have to change a lot of things if they try to take any positive direction in the field of education policy for the remaining two years. One of the things that may be most irritating is the arrogance of how they approach this question. The kind of pompousness, the way they make their statements. I think it's worth changing. But saving the negotiations is also outstanding, as you have decided to KLIK, to organize the textbook market, to transform pedagogical training, to set up a qualification system, to save the consultation. Then when it came to you that this didn't work out, suddenly they started to coordinate. They're sitting on this horse a little weird. And what is particularly outrageous is the demonization of teachers. On the one hand, they are trying to show that Hungarian teachers are money-hungry conspirators, who are really not motivated by anything but to get their money. Of course, this way they can be distasteful to the rest of society. On the other hand - Bence Rétvári has really done a great job today - they are trying to find all kinds of political threads, and you can be sure, but that would not be the goal. It is also worth considering that they should not approach the question from this basic position, not from this basic position to teachers, who is now the sympathizer of which party, which party, which party, and that they only want to raise wages, but that they should try to take this issue in an open, calm and open way, leading to the solution. I think I deserve it. And some practical steps are needed. One: it is always said how much money is spent on education and how they go to the limit of the country's ability to carry on the burden - that is what the Prime Minister says - but that is simply not true, because if we look at the GDP-related expenditure in the educational area, we see that while in the 1990s we had a GDP-related expenditure of over 6 per cent in the field of education, but even in 2003, we were 5 per cent, we were reduced to 3.9 per cent in 2013 and otherwise we are regional drivers. So, not compared to Western Europe, but compared to our regional competitors, this is a very alarming number. It should also be considered, also on practical issues, whether the structure that this super-ministery represents is operational or not. I don't think so. I'm sorry, Minister, I believe, as has already been said today, that you are out of air. Not only do we have institutional problems, but I think that Minister should also remove personal concerns and resign. And not because you might not be able to lead this ministry, but because your job, in my opinion, was to stop moving these areas forward, but to try to strangle them. I think it's an unworthy task, Minister, that you should not take it any further. In conclusion, with regard to the KLIK, I think that both extremes should be avoided. It is not good to choose a policy of complete nationalisation, nor is it good to choose a policy of complete freedom. With the profession, a new concept must be established after the dissolution of the KLIK. This must be created, and you must realise that the operation of the KLIK will no longer be possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-90	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, another lead speaker of the group. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to various speakers, I felt like watching a bad soccer game - although I don't know how much of a opposition refer to a stylish football game these days - and you see one team playing so badly that this quality will drag the other team down, and that's how it's gonna turn into a very, very bad match, which is simply unwatchable. My fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, recalled an Vasas-Újpest confrontation on which similar events occurred. That's how I feel about this debate. I think if we take education seriously and assume that we sincerely want to help educators and children, then we should stop using who, when we meet, for what political purposes some people use protests or protests, and everyone should talk about the real problem. It is completely unnecessary to know who announced or did not announce the individual protests, who was wearing what clothes and who had the size of their legs, this is completely irrelevant; it should be discussed how schools can operate. Does the Klebelsberg Institutional Center work? Will he fulfill the otherwise legitimate principle for his creation? Because what was the main principle for its creation? To reduce the differences that were present at regional and institutional level in Hungarian public education. Are these differences reduced? Can the CLIK reduce these differences in this form? This question is also answered by the parties, but given for example the background institution of the Ministry, the Institute for Education and Development. OFI replied that the KLIK in this form is not suitable for this task and is not capable of it. That is why we need to reform it. And why can't you? That question must also be asked. Because the differences in the previous system were due to the different load capacity of the municipalities. If, while maintaining the KLIK, municipalities continue to have the opportunity to provide additional services to schools, then there will be municipalities whose capacity permits this, and there will also be municipalities whose capacity does not allow it, and they will not do so. [[14.20]] That's why what caused the differences in the system didn't go away. I don't think it should go away, anyway. Therefore, I do not argue that we should prohibit local authorities from providing additional resources to schools, just to see that this does not work at systemic level. And to have proposals, yes, we propose that the state intervene where this is needed. You don't have to nationalize every school without reason. You don't have to take it away from the municipalities, the municipalities that were good owners of the schools, you don't have to take away the school. If something works, let's not hurt it. If something doesn't work, let's help you there. This should be the principle of state maintenance. But that's not what you did. And by the way, in 2013, when KLIK was created, you could still see it. The situation with regard to the textbook market is similar. I would like to bring data to support the fact that nationalisation of the textbook market in this form was a mistake. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's in Jobbik's program.]] Anyway... That's not in Jobbik's program, Mr. Secretary. I'll discuss this in detail, because that's what you're always wrong about. [[Interview from Jobbik: Read Jobbik's program.]] In 2010, total textbook spending in Hungary was about HUF 17 billion. In 2015, textbook spending was about HUF 15 billion. The number of students has decreased, by the way, in proportion. However, the nationalization of two textbook publishers was added for HUF 8.7 billion, the textbook development is now on state money, HUF 4.6 billion, and in the previous system this was done at the expense of the publishers. You have spent 2.6 billion forints on digital development, and this is 14.9 billion in total, so far created by publishers in the old system at their own expense, and now you have to spend state costs on it. So that's how much more the new system cost for textbooks. The schoolbook manager's fee in the old system was 6-7 percent, so a teacher received between 720 and 840 HUF, and now he got 100 HUF at first, then he was raised to 300 HUF. And what you often argue is that the textbook market was overgrown, indeed it was noticeable in 1990, there were 142 publishers on the textbook market in 2011-2012, when you converted it, 52. At that time, in 2011-2012, 3712 tank books were published. You said that it was so much that it had to be reduced, that in 2015 you managed to reduce it to 3400 in your system, so it decreased by about 300, and by 10 percent only the number of publications entered into the textbook register. In this sense, they could not achieve a substantial reduction. However, they achieved what was one of the most amazing experiences I had as a Member when I met the leaders of textbook publishers and talked about publications. That accumulated knowledge, that built-in system, that computer background about 30 years before state development, which these textbook publishers had, just went into the trash. He went to the dumpster because you passed the textbook market law in three days, at the end of December, leaving no time to prepare for the transition, placing textbook publishers in an unworthy position. As a result, there are publications that are suitable for Hungarian children across borders, they are listed on the textbooks in Slovakia and Romania, but they are not listed in Hungary. These are very high-quality publications, and Hungarian children across borders learn from them, very popular publications in these areas. But just because you have completely ignored professional aspects, these values are lost in Hungary. In closing, I would like to quote only one data. Was it easier to get into higher education in 2002 or 2007? That's what we talked about. István Hiller and László Pósán admitted that in 2002. In 2015, it is even harder for a first-generation intellectual youth to get into higher education compared to 2007. That's the problem. This is the result of the failure of education policy over the last five years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Dear Trade Unions, Professional Organizations! Dear Pedagogist Faculty, Allow me to read a piece of the letter from Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc, because everything that is now taking place in public education clearly began with the brave stand of teachers in Miskolc. Here's the quote: The entire education system is now in danger. Everything has become chaotic, uncertainty, despair, and often apathy in teacher rooms. The fact that there are still well-functioning schools, well-maintained hours, competitive results, without, of course, a framework for buy-in fees and travel expenses, successful graduations and recordings, is only due to the conscience of teachers, because it is not the environmental impact and the activity of education policy, that is for sure. Who even runs schools? The municipality? Or is it a company? Is it a ministry? The education office? Among all the midwives, the child was lost. The kid, because it's supposed to be about him. But that's not what's happening. Annual, better-cased biannual changes are certainly not student- and teacher-friendly. Where the National Basics Plan changes, which forces schools to redefine a series of documents, including local curricula, graduation requirements, the scope of further education, but at least the textbook, from which we teachers do not receive a free copy of respect, so the beginning of each academic year begins with the need to buy our work equipment. Is it a miracle that in such reform dumping, individual Hungarian students do not perform well in international surveys? The government prefers vocational schools to high schools, even though the worst performers come from this type of school. Out of the bench, it's obvious that they won't be qualified enough to work. For the same reason, their knowledge of foreign languages, which is weak at European level, will continue to deteriorate. There are children who, during their school career, suffer from six to eight innovation waves, including teachers experimenting with them. Yeah, it's gonna take the teacher a few years to find the best way to get the knowledge to the kids. In addition, the new generation of textbooks is experimental in their name, i.e. under trial, while professionally very high-quality books are unwarranted. With every change in the education system, we're experimenting with the children. Changing maturity requirements is one of the most outrageous. For example, graduates in the next academic year today have faced the fact that there are subjects where the requirements for graduation have been changed subsequently. After all, they have already finished studying the subject, since their education takes place in the first two years of high school. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So far, a detail from the school board's letter that started a real avalanche. Since then, nearly a thousand educational organizations or groups and over 35 thousand individuals have joined the Miskolc initiative. We must highlight the Teleki Blanka High School in Zugló, the director of which has since been targeted by the pro-government media and attempted to discredit him with gender attacks. Mr László Pósán said from his mouth that these speeches were sporadic and read some examples of the opposite. Well, here's another quote-- the mood of the educator society is getting worse. In many cases, unnecessary things bind their energies from their duties in education and education. This is the letter from the National Teacher's Faculty in response to the letter from the Miskolcs. I do not think that Mr László Pósán or any of you would claim that the National Pedagogist Faculty is wrong about this, or, at least, if you think so, please raise your voice. It is very widespread that the mood of the pedagogical society is getting worse. [[14.30]] At the beginning of the year, this dissatisfaction erupted with elemental force. Protests and protests started; teachers, parents and students say that they can no longer tolerate the education system that the Fidesz-KDNP government forced on everyone. I'm saying that he forced me because in 2011, when the Public Education Act was passed, they passed this Public Education Act without any discussion, at a great pace. Some protested at that time, but many began to feel the negative effects of faulty transformations on their skin as time passed. There's been protests and protests before, but now something's ripe, something's come together. Many people already feel that the education systems of Viktor Orbán and Rózsa Hoffmann have failed today. It's not enough that the XX. You're chasing the delusions of the seventies and eighties of the century, but this system doesn't even work. Daily disruptions accompany the lives of schools. I'd like to start with the money, the money. The issue of education was not taken seriously by the former socialist and liberal governments either. In 2003 the withdrawal was launched intensively, which in 2009 under the Bajnai government gained momentum and then reached a really serious level under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP. Since 2003, 30 percent of the expenditure on education in proportion to GDP has been lost according to HCSO data. When compared to 2010, it seems that under the government of Viktor Orbán 200 billion HUF is deducted from the school system annually, while higher education suffers a loss of 50 billion HUF each year. It is true that the teacher's wage increase provided funding to education in the order of 100 billion, but it was financed at the expense of virtually other operating costs. It is enough to look at the annexes to the budget laws, and it is clear that the total expenditure on education by 2010 was only HUF 45 billion more - HUF 45 billion, which is an increase of 2.88 percent. However, during the same period - once again quoting the figures of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office - inflation is a total of 17 per cent, i.e. a simple mathematical operation: the value of the sources of education weakened by 12 per cent between 2010 and 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, When you argue about how much money you spend on education, it seems that the opposite is true. The figures, the Central Statistical Office and the annexes to the budget confirm that this money is becoming less and less. And then we didn't even talk about GDP rising during that time, about 9 percent over these six years. So the cake got bigger, and this slice got even smaller, which is what education gets. To sum up, therefore, withdrawal of funds and devaluement. The failure of the Klebelsberg Institutional Center is due to its pathological underfunding. That's why there's no chalk, no photocopy paper, no replacement of the burnt bulb, no repair of the falling plaster, or no payment of the heating bill. The LMP's proposal for a solution is to replace the missing HUF 200 billion from public education as soon as possible and to continuously increase funding in the medium term. We imagine the country spending 15-20 forints out of every 100 HUF budget on education under all circumstances. And if the country is in a more difficult situation, then it needs to be used even more. Look at the countries that have successfully overcome the 2008-2009 crisis: you can see that they have been investing in education from the very first moment. It says in "May Be Other" Politics that all the forints translated into this will be paid many times, which is why we would break up with the policies of the former socialist and the current Fidesz governments. Secondly, in addition to restrictions, the other systemic problem is the issue of maintaining the school system, and in particular the creation of the CLIK, because from the former model, which has been excessively liberalised, we have fallen on the other side of the horse and we have switched to an extremely centralised solution, from one extreme point of view of Europe to another. Earlier, all tasks and responsibilities belonged to the lack of resources local governments, today they want to control everything from Szalay Street; we fell from small to small. KLIK strangles the independence of schools, decides on each issue; a simple acquisition of chalk often costs as much administration as before. This system is double-inoperative. On the one hand, such a gigantic monster cannot be operated effectively, there is no apparatus to see this huge bureaucracy. On the other hand, it was a huge sin to take away the right to have a say in education from the locals, because education is also a local matter, and local actors have to be given the opportunity to have a say. The May Other represents a model of maintainers of Politics, so that the local government that wants and is able to maintain it can get its schools back. We'd give the schools back to the settlements. Of course, we would also provide the right resources for this. The third point in my list is that we would restore the right of settlements to appoint the directors of their schools, which Fidesz-KDNP took from them. This is the source of ongoing conflict in hundreds of settlements. Hundreds of principals have been pushed from top to school. There were times where they finally let us go, but we think we need to establish a system where such conflicts do not occur. It would give back the Possibly Other Politics to the right to appoint directors to the local level. We wouldn't go back to the system before 2010, but we'd settle it with the current model. My fourth point is that the burden of teachers and students has become a very serious problem - perhaps the most important of all. The introduction of a career model has brought about an increase in labour costs. There is an example that the workload has increased more than wages. This growth was completely unnecessary, which often means punishment. Teachers have to spend their hours in a busy teacher's lounge. At home, for example, a test could be improved or prepared for the next day in much calmer conditions. Teachers are tired, tense, long lines squeak in front of coffee machines every morning. [[Fidesz benches.]] Possibly Other Politics would change that, too. [[István Szilárd Németh: More caffeine!]] It would also restore the honor of staff directly assisting education, as they were very seriously deceived by the Fidesz-KDNP. Nurses, pedagogical assistants, school secretaries, labs, IT guys, and we'd have a list of people whose wages have been unchanged for eight years. Similarly, students are burdened with the new National Master's Plan. Even though Rózsa Hoffmann gave the password earlier, I'd like to quote him now that the curriculum has to be carved off with an axe, nothing has come of it. It is unacceptable that children spend 5-10-15 hours more in school than they should every week compared to their age. They lose their childhood; they lose the potential for sport, culture, recreation and entertainment. All of this was milked with a narrowed textbook list and experimental textbooks full of errors. The curriculum is huge. Students want to use a funnel to fill their lexical knowledge, while everyone now has the Internet in their pockets, from which they can get this information very quickly. The current Fidesz-KDNP education system remains. He doesn't understand that today's students are organized by Google, YouTube and Facebook. The Possibly Other Politics would reduce the curriculum, and we believe that education in the XXI. It needs to be adapted to the needs of the century. Today, it is not the one who has as much knowledge as possible, but the one who can adjust between the vast amount of data and information available from anywhere, because it is necessary not only to acquire this knowledge, but also to use it well. Dear House, The May Other wants a system of education that contributes to the creation of a knowledge-based society; where education, higher education, is the path of individual and social ascent; where the quality of education is balanced; where it doesn't matter if someone starts their studies in a small settlement or in an elite school in Budapest. It doesn't matter who or what their parents are, what financial circumstances they live in, because the school doesn't increase them, but compensates for them. We want everyone to be able to move forward depending on their ability and diligence. This is a social interest, because with the vulnerable labour force or crowds of public workers working in assembly plants, this country will certainly not make much of a difference. [[14.40]] But if instead we create a knowledge-based society, then the country is really moving forward. We think that we should not point to the past, we need to get it back on its feet, and finally, XXI. Turning Hungarian education in a century's direction, but the hard part follows. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the stakes now are to finally get on the rock, because the beep has already been said. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-01-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward is the first to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea, within a nine-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-95	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say to László Pósán that we should not joke about why everyone who lives and moves in public education is sitting in the opposition box, but should think about why no one in the government box is sitting on education. Even Deputy Secretary Imre Sipos, whom we've known quite well since Friday, since sending letters to schools, has disappeared from the box. Ladies and gentlemen, They're pro-government! The thing is, you're lying and lying and lying again. They can't say anything about education that holds up, so they're stacking up new lies to lie. But let's go through this factually. According to Viktor Orbán, the money spent on education is increasing year after year, whereas, as has already been said, 200 billion forints have been withdrawn from education since 2010. In 2009, we spent 11.1 percent of the budget on education, and in 2015 only 9.7 percent, that is exactly HUF 200 billion. By contrast, you spent HUF 180 billion on stadiums between 2013 and 2016. Let's keep moving. Rose Hoffmann says it's not the organization, it's the pinky. You may have had the little toe pain that since 2010, for example, the rate of early school leavers has increased dramatically, five thousand children leave the school in Hungary every year without any qualifications or qualifications. We also know that since 2011, teachers have been constantly complaining to KLIK in a letter about the unbearable administrative burden, because of the portfolios that are controlled by newly graduated people who have nothing to do with the profession, government-like chinovniks. They've created a snitch control system for which teachers have been protesting for five years, and it's the darkest of the '50s. If you think it's just pinky pain, then I don't want to wait to see what happens when you think the problem is with the organization. You want to make silly, faceless, obedient subjects of Hungarian children, instead of being able to think, full members of society. Let's keep moving. According to István Klinghammer - I do not quote the comment of the shave - it is not true when they say that the teacher's hands are tied. For example, the abolition of free textbook selection has already been said here. We could list for days the examples of cretinic textbooks that you forced into schools today. Let me give you an example: in the fifth grade morals book, one link led children to a porn site. If you would like to teach ethics in this way, fellow Members, I can congratulate you on that. Minister Zoltán Balog, who has unfortunately also left, said now that no teacher has had to be dismissed since 2010. I ask you, what about the pensionable teachers who had to get out of school overnight, because you pushed through the Lex Harrach Act, which said that you can only work at the same time and take their pension, that everyone else in the country has been forbidden; this has now been canceled by the Strasbourg court. I have a bill on this, and I hope you will accept it. Secretary of State László Palkovics, who is here at least now, said: "It is a matter of taste that someone wants to negotiate or protest. Well, Mr. Secretary, it is indeed a matter of taste. Since 2010, teachers, schools, educational organizations have written letters to KLIK; they have either not been appreciated for replying, or the answer was: shut up, shut up! This is indeed not a trial, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, you can play this fake roundtable game, which you invite that unfortunate György Fekete and I don't know what kind of Carpathian Basin anyone who otherwise has nothing to do with the Hungarian education system is, but those who are sitting here and who are really involved in education, teachers, parents, student union, they couldn't leave, and, yes, the meeting was closed against your claim, they wouldn't let in those you didn't invite. [[Dr. László Palkovics: That's not true!]] Let me also quote a good one from László Pósán. It's a shame how much money teachers are asking for. Zoltán Balog said: "The career has brought a significant increase in wages that has not occurred in the last 25 years. Let me quote the letter from teacher Márta Cselei to Viktor Orbán, who said that she made HUF 211 thousand per month in 2010 and HUF 206 thousand in 2014, which means a net monthly income of HUF 5 000. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Since then, his net income has increased by HUF 20,000, but his weekly hours have also increased from 21 to 24. I understand that you don't like this, but it's still true. Zoltán Balog also said now that children have a lot to learn to complain about burdens, they should be treated in place. Dear Secretary of State, For example, as a parent, I handle this perfectly well: I have an eight - year - old, second - grade son, who is an excellent student, who has five praises at mid-terms, yet he comes home from school every day at four o'clock to learn. I do not think that this is normal, so allow me to say in your absence to the Minister and to you that we are dealing with this problem very well, and my child is dealing with this problem in its place. Bence Rétvári, who has also left this debate, said recently that there is no need to fear water cannons, everyone is free to protest, everyone is free to express their views. It is very interesting that immediately after the protest, the Teleki Blanka High School received a letter from KLIK, in which they requested accurate data, and I am very pleased that Deputy State Secretary Sipos Imre also returned, and on Friday he called in a letter and warned the schools what would happen on the 29th if the students stayed away from school. Viktor Orbán said - this is my last quote - that the teachers are controlled by outside forces. I don't know who you mean, obviously George Soros or the UFOs again. Wouldn't that be a bit of a baroque thing to say? - that the tens of thousands of people who have gone to Kossuth Square are controlled by the UFOs by George Soros and I don't know what kind of fallen left. [[There are constant interruptions in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But let's get down to this. That's what you're saying. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause they're so pathetic they can't say anything anymore, you're actually laughing at these comments crying. But that both Viktor Orbán and Bence Rétvári, too, dared to say that there is a party policy behind this prohibition, we ask for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Politics is not your monopoly. You are not the only ones who have the right to politicalize. Take note that the opposition is also political, and pay attention now: all civilians can also be political, because this is their job, because politics is nothing but a say in our public affairs. You can try to discredit everyone by trying to politicalize, but not only do you have the right, but it is the duty of all people, because it is our future, the future of our children. I'm not only here as a Member of Parliament, I'm here as a mother, parent and former student, because that's how this country works. So you're gonna have to stop this very quickly about who you're politicalizing and who you can't politicalize, and that stupid peace procession is going to be ordered all the time. Isn't that the same political thing? So let's cut the crap, ladies and gentlemen of the government. By the way, I am very pleased that Bence Rétvári specifically mentioned that a young man with PM actually organized the protest on Saturday. He's an 18-year-old, now graduating young man named András Kaisinger, and he's a PM member, and he spoke because it's about his own future, about what he's going to graduate and where he's going to go to school. On behalf of PM, I recently submitted the demands of Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc and Teleki Blanka High School in Budapest in a proposal for a parliamentary decision. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I very much hope that this will soon be discussed in a series of subjects. I will not list what has been said here. [[The president's ringing again.]] I know you know that. I would very much ask that, for the future and for the sake of the whole country, this be included in the series of articles and that these proposals be adopted. Thank you. [[14.50]]
u2016-03-01-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2016-03-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the lead speaker's round, let me have a few thoughts. First of all, with regard to the Minister of State of Rétvári who has since left our circle, who, of course, has run the usual circles and, after six years of government and five years of new education, makes the former governments responsible for everything, but I think that we cannot tolerate them and without a word let them abuse the teachers, parents, students who dared to open their mouths against the government and label them immediately as enemies collaborating with the opposition. Nor do I know that there have been cases in several schools where police have asked the directors about the demonstration. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Attila Tilki: No, that's not true. That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are the phenomena you can't just ignore. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The other thing I would like to say is the speech of the leader of the Jobbik faction. I understand that your policy, of course, involves criticising the right-wing left-wing governments, and so you are trying to create a kind of identity for yourself in a different way, but I would suggest to you that, in this important matter, especially since we have initiated this debate together, let us try to find the points in which we agree, because this is a national interest that I think is in the interests of all parliamentary parties, but at least, as I see it, it is in the interest of opposition parties to find a common solution. In order not to have a proposal for the future, this does not actually hold up. My fellow Member Hiller said these things in his speech as the lead speaker. To quote one or two: a new Public Education Act, the elimination of the KLIK, the possibility of local government reservations - which is not the old system at all, but a brand-new one - talked about setting up school towns. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] For example, Congressman Pósan, would you be so opposed to Debrecen being a school town? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-01-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-01-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Retvári, who has since left the room, talked about what is going on in Tisavasvári and condemned the better management. My fellow Members, Tisavasvárin, there is a programme of regularisation that is not, in a small part, carried out with the help of schools, in all areas currently controlled by the government. The district office is either under the control of the government office or under the control of the government bodies that have not done their job properly in recent years. In the field of children's education, for example, we have seen teachers regularly indicate that they have chronic lice, which they have been going to school for weeks, months, years, and are undernourished. Parents are being robbed by loan sharks, and unfortunately, government power has not been able to take any meaningful action against this in recent years. These conditions are being eliminated there, and I am very pleased that this meaningful work has begun. It is only a sign, my fellow Members, that even when these civil activists went out to the scene with me, 300 electricity thefts were reported in this area within a short time, 300 crimes were committed, hundreds of children socializing in such an environment every day. On the first day, when measures were taken in this area, we were not attacked by the inhabitants of this elegant segregation, but the police have already been subjected to violence against an official, and that is why they had to be produced. So once we move forward with the education model of Jobbik being realized with boarding schools, such families will be taken away from the child and raised under the right conditions, not through poverty and crime, as is currently the case. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, if we are talking about education, then the child is the first, and this is what we need to focus on, and this is what we need to build all our ideas on, and indeed we are building our ideas on this, but let us not forget, my fellow socialists, that it was you who, at the time, excluded 200 billion forints, two hundred billion forints from health care, according to the most careful estimates. [[Cries from the lines of the MSZP: We are talking about education! That's another one of your speeches!]] I'm sorry, from education. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] It happened at your time, when there were over ten thousand people, more than ten thousand teachers, who left this field. It was in your time that over 300 schools were closed, and in your time, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: The 50 percent wage increase. Say it nicely.]] that they created a situation that required the maintenance authorities, the municipalities, to be consolidated by HUF 1200 billion, with more than HUF 1200 billion. If we start from this situation, we had to rebuild the whole education system from this situation in such a way that the trend in children's performance would not continue in Hungary. Yes, there is a situation, because when we set up such an education system, there is always a situation where we need to be aware of the state of this. There was no system that could be maintained when the maintenance staff failed, and performance in one place in the country was much better than in the other. The quality of education on one side was much better than in the other half of the country. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Now a forformán bad. That's when there was heat, and now there's no heat. Zoltán Lukács: Now evenly wrong. The president's ringing the bell.]] This system was untenable. Accordingly, a new system should be established and a much better education should be established on the basis of the new system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember you listening to the speech from your group. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Lukács: You have a bad memory. Interjection from the ranks of the Son: Take him out! Intercom from MSZP's so-sorai: I think so too, send your kopa-szos! Zoltán Lukács: You just said the wrong thing.]] I give the word András Schiffer... [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman! [[Noise.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond first to my fellow Member Bárándy and Secretary of State Tuzson. The situation is that since 2002, PISA results have virtually stagnated. The situation is that the share of education in terms of GDP was above 5 per cent in 2002 and is now 3.8 per cent. If we look at what the R &amp; D share of GDP looks like, we also see stagnation there. So I think that this debate you are having here is completely unnecessary. We can conclude that they destroyed education together: Fidesz, MSZP. And the other is, Mr. Secretary, there is a fundamental difference in world view between us. The fact is that you deliberately consider the share of education, R &amp; D, as a proportion of GDP to be low. On an annual basis, there are 200 billion missing in public education, and you know it, and 50 billion in higher education. The story runs out so that as many people as possible in Hungary, as many growing young as possible, can be set up or employed in public works at virtually any time with any production tape. You are not interested in a country where the national economy produces higher added value, you are not interested in a country where higher added value and higher knowledge would make people pay more wages. Your Hungary is a Hungary where the oligarchs who co-operate with the multinationals rob people of hunger. It doesn't include the fact that there's higher knowledge, higher qualifications. For higher knowledge, higher education, higher wages are paid. You are pursuing a policy contrary to that. They're competing with cheap wages, vulnerable workers. We want a renewable Hungary where the GDP share of education continues to increase, and in five to ten years we can restore what your austerity policy and your predecessors have taken out of education. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-01-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Honourable Congressman, I am always interested in hearing the LMP's speech when they talk about R &amp; D money, because I see that the data and facts that contradict your logic are tendentically ignored, namely the 700 billion HUF that will be used specifically for research and development purposes by 2020 according to the decision of the Hungarian Government and supported by the European Commission in Hungary. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Talking about something else.]] 700 billion forints is exactly 700 billion forints more than what Congressman misses in this sector. [[15.00]] We are talking about developments that support universities, support innovation in universities and the market, support large companies and medium-sized enterprises that work together with medium-sized enterprises and small businesses in Hungary, and this money that we spent on cultural development and innovation is three times what Hungary's budget has been able to finance since 2007-2013. We may not have enough 700 billion forints, and we do not even see the projects where half of this could be used today. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You have to ask the Central Bank for money!]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-03-01-106	I warmly welcome my fellow Members and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your contributions. Winner Vinnai is next for a two-minute comment.
u2016-03-01-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to János Volner's comment, as he said that Jobbik created order in Tiszavasvári. I would like to remind you, my fellow Member, that Jobbik has promised that this is what better governance will be like, and then it will be shown in the better local governments what better governance is like. In Tisavasvári there is a scandal, because on 15 February the local government of Tisavasvár concluded a cooperation agreement - I imagine, on your suggestion, for such party policy purposes - with the Legion of Honor, which is noted by Mayor Zoltán Orosz Mihály Érpataki, or associated with his name, who is famous for his scandals, is extremist, violent, and wants to march in the city, especially where the Roma live. Let me tell you that there is a very well-functioning school there - nothing Jobbik did to improve education - a base school, a school in Kaba, the largest school in the region. There is a foundation that has excellent experience and empathy in the education of disadvantaged children, and you have appeared to create order in Tisavasvári. I think it was only fear, because the Russian Mihály Zoltán, who also protested in front of the government office, denounced everyone, and he will bring order to education, child protection and Tisavasvári. I think that here we can get a taste of it - and I say to the respected socialists too - what a better policy is, what a better education policy is, when they create fear in a settlement, when hundreds of people show up in front of City Hall in fear, or go to school and bring the children home. [[Dóra Dúró: The power has been stolen so far, and now we can't!]] They're taking him home. Please, there are laws and order to steal the electricity, the police - there is a separate police station - show up. Where? Let's go there together. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Let's go together and see what the police are doing!]] That's right, right there in the field. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2016-03-01-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome the present members of the pedagogical round table with great respect, and let me draw your attention to the fact that they do not sit in the Fidesz box because they do not belong to these independent experts, independent negotiators, who discuss the future of domestic pedagogy, home school, home education and public education together with the government, in the schedule that they have jointly decided on. I welcome, of course, those who are present for some reason, with party support or with the support of parties, and have otherwise been invited to this round table, but they have decided on their own - here I am talking about the Teachers' Union and the Democratic Union of Teachers, or at least the leadership and their leaders - that they do not participate in this round table, but rather, even if it has become no cause, at least in a public education matrix that they represent, rather organise protests. Rather, by taking politics into school, they organize a strike, list teachers, children who either participate or do not participate in it, who wear a plaid shirt or wear a white shirt, so they are bound in some form to politics. I would also like to make it clear to everyone that I have in my hand a four-week-old communication in which we stated that the most important thing for the government and Fidesz-KDNP is the issue of children in public education, in public education and in school terms, the focus of children. That is why we said that we should look at what is happening in their interest at school, and for their sake, two things are very important in school, so that they can have adequate and competitive knowledge of life, and their parents can know themselves safely, and their parents can be sure that their children are developing harmoniously in the community they were enrolled in. The other thing that we have stated... is yes, and at the same time we have already said that there is no place in school for direct party politics, party politics, political politics. It doesn't make any sense, bringing politics into school will have consequences like what we've just seen yesterday, and I'll talk about that later. We also stated that we hold the most important actors, the most important actors in school, in the life of the school, in the field of public education, not the minister, not the secretary of state, not the various experts, but the teachers, teachers and teachers working in the school. We therefore turn to them with respect and want to appreciate their work. That is why, when we developed the teacher's career model, this sector, they were, this group was the first to receive a wage increase as high as ever since the regime change, and by the way, the wage increase was not just a one-time increase, but a continuous, predictable increase in income. I will also return to this later, with concrete examples, including the settlement from Csepel, where I come from, I will show how much the salary increase was, say, for teachers in Csepel. We also said, out of the two, because of the previous two main points, that in public education, public education cannot be heated, hacked, cynically, pompously solve problems [[Defiance, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] It is necessary to bring together those who are involved in the invention, construction, operation and operation of this whole system, and they should discuss it together, as a result of a calm dialogue, cooperation and co-operation, the direction to be taken, and I think that this is taking place at the round table of public education today. The reason why we had to change it has already been said here, but I think we can say, perhaps with one sentence, there is only one sentence pointing out that the money has been taken out. So between 2002-2010, which István Hiller acknowledged several times in his interview, the most important problem was that the money was taken out. From this point on, he also had his hands tied under the Bajnai-Gyurcsány governments as a minister. That's why the students performed worse, which was also recognised by Minister in his interview, which is why there was a survey from his period that in total 20 percent of the schools in the capital were able to do some renovations, there was virtually no renovation in the outskirts schools, when we look at national trends, and then we see that he required renovation during his ministry - full renovation, i.e. 55 percent of the schools and 30 percent of the schools were renovated in a larger volume than tartarization. So 85 percent of the schools were incompetent to do educational work there. [[Dr. István Hiller: I had this survey done, not after me, that's a big difference!]] Of course, there were other problems here, everyone treats municipal ownership, municipal reservation as such, and if we don't now take 1300 billion, which was the debt of the maintenance staff, into which they practically pushed the maintenance staff, including by not financing the wages of teachers, because until 31 December 2002 the funding was still in place... - but then in 2003 the same amount was paid to the maintenance staff as before practically a quarter of a year or a third year. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now you're really messed up!]] And from then on, it had to be cultivated continuously. [[15.10]] However, there were maintainers like the municipality of Csepel, which closed three schools during this period. The fact that Dóra Dúró is laughing at this, I cannot accept it, because he is the chairman of the Cultural Committee, who should not be cynical about education, but should be heard. I listened to what you said when you spoke. [[He's laughing, too.]] I've been very seriously supervised by your party president, but I've been paying attention to what you said. [[Zoltán Lukács: Who is supervised by the party president, we can talk about it!]] Three schools were closed in this district. One was closed so that they could create a place for a private school, and the other so that they could create a real place for a private school, so it wasn't just the teaching field; it was Genius School, and we could safely say its name, even a cynical term. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You didn't go there! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] By the way, renovating the building from which students were expelled from public education was handed over to this foundation. When I became mayor in 2010, five - write and say: Five - children went to Genius School [[First of Novak: Raise your hand, the one who went there.]] to a school capable of receiving 600 people. Szent István u. It's 170. [[Zoltán Lukács: You can register!]] Another school was sold as a result of a real estate panama, this Görgey Artúr School in Csikó sétány, which was first closed, for five years with their buddy, who was an SZDSZ representative, was guarded for millions, and then only the saniter disappeared from the school and a few tons of aluminum, and then sold this school to a private company that had been broken down, and now we're at the point where the Csepel mayor is negotiating with the insolvency to buy it back for 100 million forints. The price of this building is 97 million forints, where otherwise it would cost 200 million forints to completely clean up the building, because since then, otherwise, drug gangs have destroyed this school. So in this situation, we had to, say, take over the schools in Csepel. [[Zoltán Lukács: Tell Kubatov to take care of it.]] In contrast, over the last five years, we have spent an incredible amount of money on renovating schools, creating new halls, creating gymnasiums. [[Szabó Timea: How many gymnasiums are there in Csepel?]] , quite simply for the renewal of sanitary facilities, toilets, bathrooms, and in the coming years there is a HUF 521 billion programme, and this government decision is also available for 2016. There are three chapters that include applications for physical education, multi-billion-dollar applications, and three chapters dealing with the full renewal of schools. Looking at educators' wages as the most important demands [[Szabó Timea: That is not the most important demand!]] - I've just mentioned to you - here's what we're looking at: 234 billion. Somehow you didn't see this money. The teacher's wage increase has cost HUF 234 billion so far, so that's how much money the teachers have received. I have looked at this in Csepel, and I will be able to give you another number, because in 2010 there were 668 teachers, and in 2016 there were 733 people. So there was a 9.7 percent increase in pedagogical employment in Csepel in the same schools and kindergartens, because this is a school and kindergarten number; we are talking about 17 institutions. In the 17 institutions, the wages of the undergraduates in 2010 were HUF 189 008 gross; HUF 189 008. This is now 288,356 forints. I'm talking about average wages. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We're up 52,6 percent. [[Szabó Timea: You can see their tax returns!]] The wages of the managers - I invite everyone to see the data - were HUF 374 024 on average in 2010, now HUF 474 482 on average. That's a 26.9 percent increase. This, compared to the cumulative inflation or aggregate inflation we have just heard, shows that this meant a very significant real wage increase for teachers. By the way, this 1 percentage point reduction in personal income tax or the increase in family tax relief, almost zero percent inflation in a two-year family of teachers, so where both parents are teachers, it represents a net increase of 40,000 forints per month, so this year for teachers. The 18 percent you've been talking about, the reason you're taking people out on the street, it's highly unlikely that it will happen now, especially in the light of this money, this significant increase I've just told you about, because there are other sectors here that depend on the government's decision, depending on the money that can be distributed. The 18 percent average increase would now cost the budget HUF 72 billion. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: One stadium! Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] We ask patience from everyone. Another 3.6 percent salary increase is expected for teachers in September. Let's take a look at some reviews. Let us not only go to the past, but also look at the future, because the speeches were basically about that - both politicians, both the MSZP and Jobbik - spoke during a close party-police course, I think this constellation is quite clear and revealing, because here both of them ended up saying that when we come, when we are on the government, when we have political power - they practically made it clear what today is about: it is not about children, it is about educators, it is about how the government must be drilled in some form, we have to fail, we have to strike and cut, we have to make trouble. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The blame was made by the skinheads!]] And then we have the opportunity to come [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] One at a time, one at a time, in a coalition, in a strange coalition. But let's look at the contents. For example, at Jobbik, we could hear excuses about textbook provision, about changing the textbook market. Jobbik's educational programme for 2010 contains the following thesis:. The textbook is a public treasure, for which there is no profit interest, so we take the National Book Publisher into state ownership. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think it's tougher than that, where Klebelsberg is practically part of Jobbik's program, and we're creating a teaching administration system that controls MNT with the education monitoring system. The country is divided into departmental districts, where the school inspectors belong. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Who is MNT?]] Hungarian National Study Plan. Now you know, Hungarian National School Plan. It's in your program that you wrote. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: You should read it.]] And there's nothing wrong with that. Sorry, don't make a mistake. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm not saying this as trouble, I'm saying that the wind rose has turned around, political action has turned in Jobbik, and technically, if we look at the protest and the strike yesterday, then a very serious party political coalition has also been formed. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik, among them: Time is up! We're out of time! No, because there's no time frame...! The president's ringing the bell.]] This politicalisation at school has very damaging consequences in the lives of parents, children and educators, although the Commissioner for Educational Rights has pointed out that if policies are brought into school, they will not bring in freedom of expression, not freedom of expression. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Politics was brought to school by KLIK!]] but the Commissioner for Educational Rights clearly described that there might be a listing, there will be tables like those sent by one of the teachers from those who otherwise do not participate in the strike, or what parents have sent to the Association of Large Families, where they talk about children who have been beaten up, where they talk about the sharing of children, and I think they're pretty scary. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Less than skinheads!]] These are not intended to provide a calm atmosphere at school, to ensure that children are safe in school, that children develop harmoniously, but that communities, school communities, are exactly at risk and are beaten up. [[15.20]] In addition, I would like to emphasise once again that yesterday's strike had virtually no stakes. There wasn't much at stake in the demonstration, in terms of how the round table was working. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He just broke his leg!]] And on the round table, we can talk about all the issues, thematically and time-orderly, that teachers, by the way, tell us what teachers represent. So there is no matter of substance, no matter of organisation, no question of bureaucracy, no question of renovating schools that is not on this round table. I think the draft agreement on this round table is quite clear, which has been forwarded to all organisations, including teachers' unions. One more thing you'll allow me to do, and then I won't waste anyone's time, but there's this KLIK... [[Szabó Timea: Enjoy!]] And it's a pleasure for me, thank you very much for listening to me like this. [[Dr. László Varga: Like a stand-up comedy!]] Here's the KLIK, which reminds me of Cato's sentence, the ceterum censeo, and Carthage must be destroyed, and KLIK must be destroyed. [[The First Novak applauds and interjects: "That's right!]] But they said that, so it's okay. Despite the fact that some of you were KLIK pro-KLIK a few years ago, some of you are less, but I believe that Minister in his thesis has repeatedly stressed the need for nationalisation and need to think about it. [[Dr. István Hiller: Maybe..! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Think!]] Maybe their partners, right; it wasn't easy to steer with the SDS, I understand that, but they shouldn't have listened to them when they changed education. The maintenance position was unsustainable. So, a HUF 1300 billion debt to the municipalities, the closure of 381 schools. Csepelen, for example, in February 2010... [[Dr. László Kács: So, how was Csepel? Interview from the lines of the MSZP: For example, in Csepel!]] I think it's important, and I'm asking you not to insult the Csepelians. So in February 2010, the municipality had to withdraw money, borrow money to pay the wages of its teachers and health workers and officials. I don't think that's a good condition. [[Zoltán Lukács: You can't farm!]] So when you have to borrow overdrafts in the second month of the year to pay wages, there's a big problem. That's when we should've protested. But the unions were fully aware of this story. And here's the bad news: Csepel wasn't the only place like this. [[Zoltán Lukács: All Fidesz!]] And Csepel was still in a good position among these settlements because he had a relatively high source of income and a relatively large asset to keep his position for a while. And schools in a situation like this, putting the maintenance man on the floor for bad political decisions, couldn't be held. And KLIK's attack was no longer due to the fact that a week ago the Secretary of State announced that he had appointed two Commissioners to renew the KLIK. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If you had appointed him to terminate it, then it's okay!]] The renewal and conversion of the CLIK is possible, both professionally and in the proposals that the information collected from all the districts of the country means, I would like to move away in that respect, and I understand that the full transformation - from the possible leadership exchange to all - is the deadline of 31 December. So we need time for that, we ask for patience for everyone. I think you've passed the KLIK exam. [[Szabó Timea: Well, he certainly did.]] The KLIK didn't get an "A," they didn't even get a "B," the KLIK got a bad grade; now, I think we can fix this together. So once again, I would like to suggest to everyone today that we leave the children at the centre, if they still have something to say, that we should talk about, that we should push politics out of school, and that we should seek agreement, that we should strive for continuous dialogue, because it makes sense in terms of public education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó MSZP, I will inform the Honourable Parliament that there is no time limit at this stage of the debate. [[That's right, Mr. President.]] After the fifteenth minute, more people looked at me questioningly. You have the floor, Congressman Tamás Harangozó.
u2016-03-01-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that as a Member of Parliament, it is our duty to show the opinion of the people, the views of the people involved, who we decide between the walls of this house. It may seem to Bence of Rétvári that this is a debate, it may seem that this is just a one-minute push of a button, just what we do here, in the end, you know, these people are and their lives. And there's a button push, and there's a life there. Therefore, I think that if Bence Rétvári believes that this debate day is pointless, it will unfortunately classify you as your party, your faction and the governing parties' fractions. You know, we also think it's very unfair that Members, cowardly, consider trade union leaders sitting here to know precisely that they can't react to this. If you cannot answer, my fellow Members, you have given your views in writing, and I will now interpret the written opinion of the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers without changing and commenting here in the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Homeowners and Honatas! With initiatives to organise today's debate, we have only a few hope that the country will join forces. And now it's happened. True, this required our party and government's many years of sacrifice, time and energy-saving, night and day - making public education of the country into the lowest tract of the still measurable level. After all, the renewal of professional and professional organisations has proved to be completely unnecessary, because the ladies and masters of the EMMI have made every possible mistake in the whole of Hungarian society through that rare retrograde thing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ize?]] which, to the greatest pleasure of all, we call a national law on public education. They tricked him. They cheated society, fooled parents, because they took out literally all the tools to influence the use of their children's time at school, promising institutions and maintenance at European level, high-quality training with equal opportunities. I am thinking of a useful use of the time that is more than the number of hours a student in public education spends with his family on a given day, taking away from them the experience of living a real childhood, forcing them into a robot that can be called everything but a happy, balanced school age. Despite their complaints to the principal, the head of the district, parents will not receive an answer because the principal and the district manager are not competent. And the clinic won't answer. Why? Because it's not relevant. Then who's in charge? We know who. They tricked the students, because instead of expanding their options, they're just narrowing them down. Because we even know who said that we don't need cafets in higher education, we don't need a lot of high school graduations, we don't need so many high schools, we just don't need so many high schools, but he doesn't say it, although he definitely suspects that he doesn't need a lot of honest and clean-eyed young adults who can argue, reason, represent his interests. All the more, he needs the faceless crowd from school, whose future is being taken away by the current education system, who can always be expected with some ruckus, community service or the promise of the current homecoming and a happy future. [[Interview from Fidesz:...professional comment!]] And the ones who thank you, but don't want any of this because they want something else? Well, they send a plaid picture from Cambridge, Oxford, ELTE, BME, SOTE, they win student Olympics, and they sincerely thank their teachers for the knowledge that enables them to meet the expectations of the best universities in the world at a high level. And they fooled the teachers, too, most of all. They, who were so eager to finally be considered human, to appreciate them, to pay for their work. Those who didn't even care how much danger Hoffmann's sentence meant that from now on education is not a service, but a service. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Public Service, you said!]] Now they know, because they feel it on their skin. [[15.30]] And the biggest problem is not that they work much, much more than the law requires, but that they become significantly less effective than the greatest intellectual layer of society, disappointed, resigned, indifferent, burned out. Yes, it burned out because they see that the leaders of education are not interested in what kind of teachers they really are, what the so-called added value is, where they get from Marika, Pistike, no matter how much they have invested in their professional development during their decades on the field, and no matter what they think, they expect them to do one thing: meet the expectations of the almighty state on a lie of status. And if that happened, their wages wouldn't go up as much as the salary of a medium-cheap lawyer per hour. And if they don't talk, their heads won't hurt. We know who his calculations have worked so far, so far he has successfully divided and ruled. To that physical law - who could have been his teacher? - but he didn't pay attention to the fact that one day every glass would be full, and occasionally it would overflow. And perhaps he didn't even think that the circle would close, did it not, geometry, and that someday all patience would run out. We're out for the day. Parents, students, educators' protests came together, they were fed up with false government promises, a waste of time and energy of false reconciliations, an uncle of the state of everything, of all money-absorbing, everywhere present aggressive presence. That is why they have created and created the ever-expanding circles of freedom of teaching, which is why they sacrifice money, time and energy, because they want our children to be better and to be able to cope with competitive knowledge here in Hungary. I won't argue with you. We know who wants it. In his Hungary. What I'm talking about is our Hungary. László Mendrei, President of PDSZ Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-03-01-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP.
u2016-03-01-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's hard to speak after such a funeral march into Parliament. I've been thinking myself, I seem to know a very different school and country. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's right! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We are sure of that!]] Not to deny that there are perhaps renegade, disillusioned, easily streetable teachers, but I see in front of me hundreds of thousands of kindergarten teachers, teachers, teachers, who are waiting for children in the mornings with a smile, and I see hundreds of thousands or millions of young people who go to school in the morning with joy, and on afternoons they are happy to tell their mother, father that they have learned something today, it was good at school, and how they have progressed. So let us leave this bilateral approach, we will probably not be able to convince each other, because it is difficult to convince anyone who aims at setting up the system of Hungarian public education at all costs as a set of ruins. Still, I'm going to try and tell you the facts. However, as an introduction, this debate began not at 13 o'clock today, but at about 9 o'clock in the morning, when not a speech before the agenda was already on the state of public education and projected the afternoon's debate day. Among other things, we heard István Hiller's speech before the agenda, who spoke about the fact that such debates are mostly boring and have no real stakes. Then he added that they, i.e. the MSZP, do not want to organise such a boring debate day without a bet, but, I quote, they want to provide guidance. I'd like to ask you what kind of path you're going to show us here. After all, from 1948 until 2010, with the exception of two and four years, they had nearly sixty years to put public education in order. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, my God! Dr. László Varga: What are you talking about? You were a MSMP member! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: MSZMP, Rózsa Hoffmann, sit down!]] and build a system of public education that flourishes. I'm not gonna say 60 years, just the previous twenty-five. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You were a member of the MSZMP, so stop it! Interpreting from the ranks of the MSZP and the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-01-114	Here you go, Congresswoman, go on.
u2016-03-01-115	I'd try. It's very difficult to overhear the noise of men here, of course, but I'll try the impossible. Well, if we go back only until 1990, what route did the MSZP and the governments that led public education and public education - then we called it public education? Dismissed teachers. We've heard numbers here about 16-17 thousand. He also showed me the way to raise the weekly weekly hours of each teacher without ordering a raise. This measure was not followed by strikes and demonstrations. They took away the 13th month's salary for teachers and others, taking some 17 billion forints from the public education that we put back. And I could tell you the problems, the weakening results, the total disruption of the public education system. The person who listened to Minister Zoltán Balog's exposé placed the signs that made us change in 2010 next to each other. Therefore, perhaps this debate day should not be a guide, but it should be what it should be, an exchange of views, a consultation on how to proceed, what to do, so that the undoubtedly existing problems that have brought us here will improve. I would like to say at the outset that for the Christian Democratic People's Party and, of course, for Fidesz, the most important value in public education is the child. That is why we called the Public Education Act, sometimes ironically mentioned in 2011, public education, because children are known to be raised. The lack of certain sentences is completely unnecessary when all the measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government are for the benefit of children. I don't think there's any need to insist on a family policy that serves the very purpose of not starving children to live better. And likewise in the school system, we are aware that if we happen to improve the life situation of teachers, this is also in the interest of children, because better paid, more respected teachers with children are better able to do pedagogical work. Our other basis is to honor, respect, and bow our heads to the teachers, and I believe that our policy, the pedagogical career, has been started since 2010, and that the increase in salaries, which has already been confirmed and proven in numbers here, all proves that our government is paying special attention to educators and that we appreciate their work. We are aware that the most important prerequisite for a good school is a good teacher, a well-paid, respected teacher - what else is in the best interests of children than this? But let's look at today's situation, which led to this debate day being initiated. In order to make the situation clear, it is worth looking back a little bit. I promised I wouldn't go back 60 years, especially a hundred years, until the '90s. In the early 1990s, a system of education was established that allowed three types of maintenance in the system of public education and public education, including municipal self-governments, churches and private schools. Here, let us have a few words about the municipal school system. So the municipalities were the maintainers, nearly three thousand municipal authorities at more than five thousand schools. Not to dispute the good intentions and commitment of municipal councils and mayors to school, but we had to experience that instead of holding together and better serving the goals of equal opportunities for children that everyone respects and pursues, the differences between schools grew more and more, both in terms of material terms and equipment and, of course, in terms of the quality of education. [[15.40]] Local governments accumulated some HUF 50 billion in debt at the time, which has increased to HUF 1300 billion in debt over the past years. This means that the municipalities have gone bankrupt, with a few exceptions. If an institution is maintained, the municipality is going bankrupt, then, as a matter of fact, the reserved institution is going bankrupt. The visible signs of this are, of course, different per county, per city, but the fact speaks for itself. What were the spectacular signs of this bankruptcy? Professional circles have ceased to exist, especially in rural schools. There were not one, but dozens, hundreds of schools where they couldn't hold a single specialty, even though we know that the specialty is one of the eloquent spots of school pedagogical work. They're closed, school choirs are gone, choir arms are gone, student acting. Very narrowed down, in many places all school sports facilities have ceased. The poor municipalities could barely sustain school meals, and the studies of sociologists and educators all showed that child poverty and inadequate feeding of children have increased enormously. I note that we have solved these problems, since today the vast majority of children eat free at school, and there is not a school where the number of optional specialities varies between 50 and 100, thus making the children's afternoon activities colorful and beautiful. These are not, of course, mandatory, who comes here on the basis of their interest. What if it's not a child-centred school system? But I'll continue with the missing signals. The opportunities for summer meals have almost ceased, also for financial reasons. The summer camps closed one after the other. And there were thousands of teachers who were illegally employed because of the government's lack of money by concluding a ten - month contract with them, thereby saving two months' summer salary. Again, what is very painful and very negative in terms of the quality of education, is the growth of unqualified teachers. On the one hand, the reason for this was that they were able to save a lot of money again. And then let's see what was on the professional side. The maintainer has professional management options. Where municipalities, especially in small settlements, did not have such a person with pedagogical knowledge and competence, if you may say so, their human resources, with good intentions, but could not carry out the task of professional management to an adequate standard. And there was also a tendency that, although the maintainer had no right to interfere in the lives of self-proclaimed schools, there was an increasing number of pressure on schools to adopt professional ideas that the schools were forced to implement. Therefore, the much - said professional autonomy in schools, which should be of great value, has been damaged in many cases. It has rich literature, it is worth shooting the pedagogical press of the nineties and two thousand years. As a result of these many problems, of course, the results were further weakened, the PISA shock appeared in the early 2000s, to which the then government reacted late, and very many foundation schools failed, which were not possible to remedy or receive. Because, as Minister said in his exposé, he wasn't clearly responsible for education. Here, too, in the main hall of Parliament, the problems that most of the time appeared in western Hungary, when a failed local government handed over its school to a grass-tree foundation, but instead of grass and wood, it was true that teachers had not been paid for semesters or even years - not a day or two late, but not at all - and then the school closed its door and the children went where they could. There have been no such problems in recent years. And for these educators, for these children, there was no one on the street at that time, and they did not cry for them, and Minister Hiller, who was in charge of the education at that time, spread his hands because there was no legal opportunity, no legal means to improve or resolve these negative developments, which were not unique, but multiple, dozens of them. But let's look at the other side of the municipal reservation, what they even taught in these schools. Like I said, it wasn't really professional control. We lived at an age when the National Basic Training Plan did not contain a curriculum, the existing framework curriculum was not mandatory, so there was no education management document from which it would have been clear what should be taught to all children and what should not be taught. I don't describe the negative consequences of this, everyone can think of it, I'm just quoting a little video footage you saw a few weeks ago, where the reporter asked girls in college - I'm stressing, college, so he graduated, he was on an intellectual career - two questions. 1. What is the voltage in Hungary in the sockets, in the currents? They didn't know. He asked me how many, but they didn't get it. That's too bad. By the way, as I recall, these girls went to economic college. Who doesn't have that much technical knowledge of XXI. At the beginning of the century, there are serious problems. But there's a bigger problem. Each educational conference is also about educating young people to become citizens, the basic condition of which is to have historical knowledge, to be informed in the world, in political life. Well, they asked them when World War II was. I'm not a good actor, which is why I'm not trying to play the expression they used to react to this and tow their shoulders; the point is that they didn't know. This phenomenon may be unique, of course, but we could bring examples where, preparing for a holiday on October 23rd, reporters like to ask children, young people what we celebrate on October 23rd, and the answer is 90 percent the same as squeezing their shoulders. Or why the 56 flag was leaked. Everyone could list hundreds, dozens of university instructors, examples showing a lack of knowledge among young people. These can be traced back to the lack of content regulation and no control. This could no longer remain, so what the newly formed government would have to do from 2010 onwards had to be chosen. There were three ways to choose, as far as school maintenance is concerned. One, let the municipalities, as has been before, do not disturb the water. It is clear that this path could not be chosen, since only the typical symptoms listed here have shown that this cannot go on. The other option would have been for the churches to take over the schools. The churches themselves didn't want it, they didn't have the strength, and none of the country's population would have taken it well. The third option would have been the system of private schools, which, sooner or later, as we have heard, would indeed collect tuition fees because they want to pay well for the services they provide. That wasn't an option either. That's why the state had no choice but to take control of school maintenance. This was not an idea drawn by its hair, since these ideas appeared before 2010. That is why I do not understand it, because during István Hiller's ministry there have been several initiatives and studies about the more or less nationalisation of the school system. How can the person who initiated this in the years before 2010 face it now, and who now says that the nationalization of schools must be restored, which we have solved? That's what he wanted. [[15.50]] Or we have heard such things from Jobbik's representatives, Mrs Dóra Dúró, István Ikotity, and we must return the schools to the municipalities. Why? - when life once proved that it didn't work. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I also ask how the representatives of MSZP interpret it, or I heard those words this morning from DK or PM representatives, László Kiss, very nice sentence: give the school back to children and teachers. I'm asking you, why, whose is it now? [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: The CLIK.]] Don't children go there? Aren't the teachers working? Or will the school be run by children's directors? And children will sustain it? Maybe it's in a fairy tale world. It's better for good-penned colleagues to write stories like that. I'm sure it'll be very nice, but it won't work. Therefore, we have decided that the state will take control of the maintenance of schools. And it couldn't have been any surprise, since, who was here in 2010, at the government's inaugural meeting and faced with the government's programme or read it later, it was clear to him that the second Orbán government intended a much greater role for the State, precisely because it is the institution that can make the settlement the most effective. Now, if the state takes over the reservation, then there is a need for an organization that performs the classic maintenance tasks. It is possible to argue whether the sharing and listing of these have been best achieved or not, but whether such an organisation is needed is for sure. This can't be done by the Ministry, it's incompetent. It was necessary to set up an organisation that would then carry out the maintenance of schools. In the past, some 5,000 officials, some 5 000 officials, were involved in the maintenance of schools in the municipalities, and the total number of KLIK was just over 2 thousand. So there was an organization called Klebelsberg Kuno to support schools. Now, creating an organization like this may take decades to make it work perfectly. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] No one has ever claimed here in Parliament or anywhere else that this organization is functioning flawlessly and perfectly. No need to yell, I'll say the same thing as you think. Of course, it is not flawless, it is not perfect, but I can put here what Mr Szilárd Németh said in his speech with two words before me, that this is precisely one of the areas for which the round table of public education is now destined to correct these errors. And if we all work together to solve the problems together, then these mistakes can be improved, with the exchange of persons, with infrastructure and with organisational solutions that are better suited to today's needs. And here, there is a huge role to be played by the public education round table, by the many actors involved in it, because they are the ones who felt the shortcomings of their operation on their skin. But I have to bring here that, especially in the rural area, I have seen many of these myself, and I have found that the KLIK has produced very serious results in the rural districts. First of all, he's evened the paychecks. In most places, he terminated the unblessed contracts that were unworthy of educators. It has eliminated in most places, at least significantly reduced the use of unqualified teachers. So the balancing that will not happen in one or two years has begun, but we are on the right track. Allow me to say one more word about why we named this institution after Klebelsberg. [[Lajos Korózs: Because the Horthy system must be restored.]] Klebelsberg Kuno, as you know... [[György Balla: Are you really that stupid, Korózs?]] I didn't even hear what he said. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Believe me, you can get used to yelling at me like that, and now I'm getting started. It was Kuno Klebelsberg who carried out a folk school program, behind which was the thought of not having any children in Hungary who could not reach the next school by walking for at least half an hour. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what's gonna happen now if there's no school bus.]] and thus end the illiteracy that kept Hungary very deeply. And I could tell you more about Klebelsberg's actions. It is worthy of the Minister of Culture to name one of those maintainers after him. [[A statement from the opposition: What about József Eötvös?]] which, like his era, has designated the responsibility of the state for the safe upbringing of children, everyone can learn to read and write. So here's the public education round table, which, if Jobbik considers it important to hold a national consultation, I don't know how you imagine it, but in the end, you can't solve this problem without professionals, and in the round table, from the Academy to the practicing kindergarten teacher, parents, students, everyone sits there and they can give their opinions. And if we patiently listen to this, and we don't assume that there is an actor in the entire education system who doesn't care about the child, then I believe that this round table will come to fruition. Well, as long as there's a KLIK, maybe it'd be nice if we could stop him from being a scold word in education. Of course, we can call it whatever it is, one thing is certain, without the public school system, schools cannot function. The rationalisation of this maintenance organisation is ongoing. I am very confident that the public education round table initiated by the Secretary of State and supervised by the Minister will find good solutions. I think it is all our shared responsibility, whether we are politicians or a professional or both, to facilitate the successful functioning of this round table, and perhaps such movements will not be necessary in the near future. I wish you the best of luck, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Before giving the floor to the speakers announced in advance, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Mr Benedek Sallai and Mr Szabó Szabolcs, I shall give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary for two minutes.
u2016-03-01-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I asked for the floor because I enjoy listening to the speech of the MSZP, the pathetic words. After all, seeing the professional comments of the past period, I think they're starting to fall into the same mistake as the one-time mouse in the joke of standing on the elephant's back on the bridge, and then every step of the way, he yelled at you that you heard us roar. Now, because there's a legitimate problem in the different circles of society, in this case, with regard to the education system, and you're trying to join them, no matter how painfully, that doesn't mean that your support has increased. I just want to warn you of this delusion. The fact that there are organisational or financial problems in the education system in the first place, I think that the last few years have given an answer, because since 2010, some HUF 380 billion of infrastructure has been developed from primary education institutions through higher education institutions. The fact that the government has started to organise wages as a first step for teachers shows that the problem of the education system is indeed a matter of organisation rather than a financial issue, although we all know, of course, that the transformations require money. However, it is difficult to place where trade unions whose representatives are sitting here today and listening to today's debate are unwilling to sit down for the hearing that the government invites them to every week. But believe me, we really want the KLIK to be a functioning institution. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, on the principle of subsidiarity, all decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level, but it is also part of this principle that they should be able to do so at the level at which they are able to do so. The maintenance of the municipal educational institution has suffered a deficit of HUF 1300 billion from itself until 2010. There was a deficit of HUF 1300 billion for the municipalities that maintained educational institutions. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true. Development bonds were the bulk of it.]] If the state hadn't consolidated this, education would have been impossible. I think that there is an opportunity to resolve this issue if the teachers' union sits down with the government and there really can be a position that actually has the support of the profession and behind which political support can be put. [[16.00]]
u2016-03-01-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics for two minutes. Two minutes!
u2016-03-01-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Invitation! I asked for the floor because I think that we will still have the opportunity to hold a professional debate in the coming hours, but I would like to join the Congresswoman in saying how big this system is. We are talking about starting a transformation of the Hungarian education system. The transformation of such a large system obviously takes attention, time and patience. I don't think that's a question for the people here. To demonstrate the size of this system, I would like to say a few numbers, just to know what scale we are talking about. In 2012-13, 1.7 million children attended public education institutions from kindergarten to high school and adult education without universities. In 2017-18, this means about 1.6 million children. So that's how many kids we're talking about, and that's how many kids we're talking about. The number of teachers who operate this system teach in this system was 166 thousand in 2012-13, and in 2017-18 we are talking about 171 thousand teachers. If we look at the colleagues of the KLIK, we're talking about 120,000 teachers who are members of an organization. I'm just saying, we're picking up the scale. If you look at the number of assignments in Hungary, the primary schools perform their tasks in about 3600 places, the high schools in 860 places, and the vocational secondary schools in 890 places. There was a question, and I would like to come back to this later on as to why the round table is so, and why, for example, the Hungarian Academy of Arts is included in this structure. Basic art education is done in 2800 places, which means 230,000 children. That was the reason for this thing, by the way. I think these magnitudes show that if we deal with such a system, we modify such a system, we deal with such a system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then it will take proper expertise, patience and obviously time. The education system must not be twitched. [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So what I'm asking of the people here is that we try to follow this kind of thing next. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-01-120	Thank you very much. I inform the Honourable Parliament and the technical staff that the government's speeches are taken away from the time of the Fidesz faction. So I'm gonna ask you to modify it this way: 4 minutes 35 seconds. Mr. Messenger, do you accept? [[On the sign of Nándor Gúr:]] Thank you very much. So please adjust the time according to this. Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik.
u2016-03-01-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First, I would like to respond to the huge unveiling of Szilárd Németh, just the parts related to education. How much the party president oversees me or how much I don't, I think that's ridiculous, and that's the standard I don't want to go down in this debate. On the other hand, as far as our 2010 and 2014 electoral programmes are concerned, yes, I still agree with the need for a central curriculum. That doesn't mean I disagree with the way you guys did NAT. I don't know why that's a contradiction. We need it, I don't doubt its validity, that's what's in our program, that it's necessary, but the way you've done it, I don't agree. The details of this will be discussed by my colleague, Gergely Farkas, under my strict supervision, of course. [[István Szilárd Németh: I see that this was a direct hit!]] But I'm gonna leave him with this opportunity to talk about overload. Next, whether the state, as a maintainer, has a right to education. We wrote down in our program, yes, we do. That's what I think there is today. But the way they did it, the way the KLIK was created, the way it works, and there's no justification for it, but there's no conflict between the two, that's not conflicting. If we ask whether there should be a public textbook publisher among textbook publishers, then I say yes, so be it. But in the way in which you have transformed the textbook market and put the publishers who have created valuable publications in an unworthy, difficult position, I do not agree with that. So I don't think there's been a turnaround, even compared to our 2010 program, which you quoted, but certainly not compared to the 14th, but we talked about the same thing. By the way, Fidesz had such sounds both about the textbook market and KLIK, but nothing has changed for us. I could give you examples of turning around in Fidesz, but I'm also not going to do it, and I'd rather talk about the situation of teachers. With regard to the career model and its introduction in 2013, and its circumstances, I would like to draw attention to a few things. You are talking about and talking about Minister Zoltán Balog's average increase in wages of 34 percent for a teacher in September 2013. Prior to that, there was a wage increase for teachers in 2008 and, in the period between the two, inflation resulted in an average reduction of 31.2 percent in teachers' wages. Thus, in real terms, the implementation of 2013 was a 2.8 percent increase compared to the Ministry's data and the HCSO's data. The 2013 launch was so that a 100 percent increase was promised before, but only 60 percent of it could be introduced, and in September each year an extra 10 percent of the remaining increase would be made. At the time, they also said that every January, with the minimum wage, the wages of teachers would rise, and then, when they did, they changed this measure and now it will not increase. So, therefore, its value is also not guaranteed. They often refer to the fact that the wages of teachers depend primarily on the country's strength. That's partly true. On the other hand, it also depends on how important the education sector is for the government, how important the wages of teachers are. In Hungary, over the last 26 years, all governments have considered the wages of teachers so important that they have never reached 80 percent of the average salary. So from the big cake, both you and the MSZP have always spent so much on education, teachers, that 80 percent of the average graduating salary has never been paid. We're talking about graduates here too, so I'm gonna make sure there's no misunderstanding. On the other hand, not only wages, but also all education expenditure shows how well the sector can enforce its own interests within a government, even as a result of the ministerial structure. In 2003, the Hungarian state spent 5.6 percent of its GDP on education; in 2013 3.93 percent. So, yes, it depends on the load capacity, depending on the performance of the economy. But it also depends on how much the sector can fight itself within the government. We see that education in this regard was worse in 2013 than in 2003. But we could watch this, every year of the last 26 years. I can't even bring the international comparison here, because otherwise we are the fast drives, the higher share of resources for education in Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. If we are not only talking about money, or we are talking about money only in part, we must not forget that education should have a very important role in social mobility. I would like to bring in the issue of catching up, and I would also like to avoid party political leaders here. Between 2008 and 2013, the Hungarian state spent about 160 billion HUF on catching up. During this period, while the number of children decreased, the number of disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children increased. So there were fewer children and more disadvantaged and cumulative underprivileged children between 2008 and 2013. I have brought on purpose a time when it was not only a Fidesz government, it was also an MSZP government, because it is not my intention to start throwing mud and to highlight the fact that they are unfit to lead the country at party political level. By the way, that's what I think, but that's not what I'm trying to do right now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Good thing you didn't tell me.]] Anyway, I'm not here to talk about this right now. I would like to show that the spending efficiency of this money is very questionable. We spent 160 billion forints on it, not too little money, and the number of children who fell down increased. So we should talk about fundamental systemic errors that require fundamental changes. In conclusion, a little bit about protests and political culture, I think we need to talk about it, because a lot of anger has been whipped up by recent events in education. [[16.10]] But it wasn't that, and this whole wave of protests didn't start with teachers funded by MSZP or George Soros suddenly woke up to the fact that they couldn't keep their personal hatred of Zoltán Balog any longer, but, for example, the Herman Ottó High School wrote a letter to KLIK; and they didn't get an answer. Isn't it a basic level of culture that if a high school manager or his faculty write a letter to the maintenance staff, we answer that? Isn't it basic? And believe me, honesty is what controls these educators. I'm gonna take a chance that there may be some people, some people in this whole story who have some kind of political agenda. But first and foremost, neither you nor we nor anyone else should be concerned with those who have political goals, and not those who have political goals. What you have to worry about is that these numbers that I've told you, they're gonna get better. So that there are no more children who break down, there should not be so little share of the common money in education, and that the wages of teachers should reach the average salary as soon as possible, at least if we want to lend them an average value. Believe me, me and Jobbik have no party policy agenda in this matter. I'm also a mother, even though I don't have a school-age child yet, but I can see when a child is happy that he can create something. I see my own child, how happy he is to show me when he learns to swim, how he can dive under the water and kick his feet. And I can see the other kid, how happy he is when he comes running up to me, drawing a flower for my little girl, because they're friends in kindergarten, and that she can give it to me. And believe me, these feelings, these experiences, can lead a politician far more than Zoltán Balog now resigning or not resigning, or who is the leader of KLIK. Believe me, that's what this is about. It's about children finding their prosperity, creating a better Hungary for their own children, for each other's children, because that's what they need to lead a public-sector man, and that's what's driving us. And I would very much like for everyone in this debate to be at the heart of the whole issue. I would very much ask you not to put this issue on a party political level, but to talk about how it will be better for teachers, how it will be better for children, parents and thus for the whole country. Thank you for doing this. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-03-01-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! I would like to relate to the last sentence of the congresswoman: I am in the same shoes, I have three sons, two of them are small, one is a little bigger, and these are exactly the experiences that I think should not be taken from ourselves or anyone else. That is why it is very important to talk about these matters. And the forum for this, I think, must be a forum where we must clearly separate the political aspect of the matter and its professional part. As this issue was raised at the Cultural Committee meeting, that is why today's debate came about, where I also said that the round table of public education that we have created is such a round table, and I think that here are the relatively bad comments that the government is discussing with you, these, I think we need to consider whether they really are. This round table contains virtually everyone who has any interest in the system of Hungarian public education, who has anything to say, so I do not think it is a good debate or a good remark that this round table is actually illegitimate here. I can't have an illegitimate one, just like no one else is illegitimate. The interest representatives are involved in this, and I think that the interest representatives decide that they want to participate actively or otherwise, but they will definitely be invited. Employers' organisations, parents' organisations, student organisations, various supporters participate in this, representatives of science, higher education and professional organisations of public education, and many have been invited. Everyone must decide whether they want to participate in this or try to express their views in another way. One thing is certain, and I would like to refer to the remark made by Congresswoman Szabó Timea that I do not like the demonstration. I didn't say that. I said that matters which are necessary for the purpose of making a prudent decision can only be developed in a relatively limited manner at the demonstration, but there is a forum for this, this round table of public education. So I think that, in agreement with the congresswoman, we really need to talk about this and separate the political aspect of this from its professional part, the round table is the perfect forum for that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, I would like to say to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member, that he does not have the opportunity to comment, because his independent colleagues have used up the time. You have the floor, Congressman Sallai.
u2016-03-01-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to share a few points with you, as listening to the debate here, I do not have a lot of things in mind as a politician, which raises questions. As I went through these speeches, I took note of what should be discussed. Obviously, I do not want to add any substance to Minister Balog's speech, he is doing his original profession here, obviously this is what happens if he is not doing policy activities by professionals. So just like a man who doesn't know how to drive an agricultural purse, that's where it comes in. I'd stay away from demanding your resignation. So I don't think that replacing this area, this sector, with another demagogic or demagogic demagog, would bring progress. So it doesn't matter who sits there from this government or from these governing parties, I don't think we can expect a meaningful result. Accordingly, I have to get to some political issues, because you are making this professional debate political, because you are talking about how this issue is politicised. I don't think so, because it's just that I've been waiting for myself for years to see when teachers or parents will wake up. Such patient educators who have endured so much since the KLIK was created! After all, every sober man saw that it was not working and that it was bad. That's how long it took, and now they're upset that after all these years, they're saying that it's not working. And I am also surprised at this because, in fact, there are several instances where, because of the under-fundedness of the municipalities, there was not enough money for educational institutions, and that is why, in fact, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann specifically said that there was no other solution. That's what happens when people don't think. They find a solution, and then there's nothing else to do. You didn't even try to solve the funding problems of the municipalities. To this day, they can't perform basic tasks! And then they say it's not good to ask someone to come back. Why wouldn't it be good? [[István Szilárd Németh: Consolidation! Something had to be done, didn't it? You're babbling!]] It can be good without further ado, and the school can be in the right place in the municipalities, in the event of adequate funding. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, said so cleverly here that he listened to the others with such respect, it seems that this does not apply to me, but I am trying to continue. So there is no centralising solution to the financing system. There were many other solutions that were not examined. And now it's time to talk about it, and then you can think about what you've been talking about as policy makers. It was obvious that Dr. Congressman Pósán and Dr. Hiller, both practicing teachers, agreed that education should be about children, and even Secretary of State Tuzson Bence said that the child is the first, the child is the real value - these were said - for whom education is. Accordingly, I think that in this spirit we should talk about what the educational system is capable of. To tell you the truth, I'm a bit afraid of just talking about the child, because it's just as important for an adult who these children become. Because right now, what do we see in the education system? It means that there is an educational system where it is confrontative, there is a teacher and a lot of children, and until the age of 18 you don't have to think about anything, because someone in an education system tells them what to think about, and then they let you out at the age of 18 to look for a job, tell you who to be in Hungary on government and such questions. This educational system is also about how these adults will grow up, how happy they will be, how their lives will be. Is the education system not responsible for what Hungary's happiness index shows, where we stand in the international comparison, how people feel free? Is this happiness index or this education policy not part of the proportion of suicides or addictions in Hungary? They're not related? Isn't that the outcome of all this, what kind of adults these children are going to be, who are getting out of the system? And from then on, if we are trying to talk a little more about it, and my fellow Member, Mr Szabó Timea, has literally said that he is raising subjects and non-thinking adults, then obviously we should not jump forward, because the people raised by this education system and this KLIK have not yet grown up. But at the same time, what my fellow Member Dóra Dúró also spoke about is whether this educational system can create the joy of learning, the joy of learning, when it is determined how the teacher will take the chalk at the board to sit on the chair and try to force education into a fully automated system, obviously this cannot be very, very positive. [[16.20]] And perhaps you will forgive me, fellow Members of the MSZP, obviously I could not agree with the yellings, because when Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann said that Kuno Klebelsberg was worthy of naming an institution, I can agree with that, my parents also studied in farm schools that she created; my problem is that the institution is not worthy to bear her name. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So we need to talk more about this, because basically, the spirit of how to put it in place, applying these forms of knowledge to local conditions, these are the things that this educational system cannot create. One thing I would like you to accept from me, my fellow pro-government Members, is that I fully believe that their intentions were not bad, I do not assume, absolutely; I am assuming a lot of bad things about you, which I do not. I do not think that anyone here wanted to harm Hungarian education, I just think, as I see in property policy in my own field, that they do not draw conclusions, and I do not see that they recognize this. My colleague Pósan said in his speech, quoting Mr Hiller, that he admitted in 2007 that in 2002 there was more chance for a villager child, or that his chances were better. I will be very curious to know when Fidesz politicians will have the ability to do this self-criticism, to admit that we are going in the wrong direction and that it needs to be changed, because the lack of this ability is the barrier, which could now move the whole system towards improvement. Basically, I fully agree with the fact that the regional differences from the country's level of development, I could say that they come from GDP per capita, but I do not want to, from the family background, how they are passed on and how the education system can overcome this. And not only how can you overcome this, but not just social background and social background, how can you change children's abilities and skills? And basically, the general professional views that I read are that it is not able to bring out more of the truly talented ones, it is more mediocre, at the same time it cannot raise the weaker ones, and therefore the system is very, very bad, so it is incompetent to keep it that way. And if that's what we're talking about, let's look at what it is that's going to indicate right now, right now, after five years of operation, this institution-support center. I would ask either the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State or the responsible politicians to tell me how the number of students in municipal institutions has changed compared to this one. In recent years, how have children moved from KLIK-preserved institutions to ecclesiastical institutions, and why? What could be the reason why they changed this without further ado? How has the number of students changed, say, from alternative schools to schools maintained by foundations? These are objective measurements. It is possible to see how parents feel, what opinions they make with these decisions, what schools their children go to, and these indicators are certainly important for us to judge. There's one more thing I don't want to do. It has been said several times here what was during the MSZP administration. Forgive me, not for friendship, but I don't want to talk about it. About how the MSZP governance was, in 2010 and in 14 the voters gave their opinions, I am not interested in that. What I'm interested in is what you've fixed, what you've used two thirds of them for for five years, what you've improved. Now we need to talk about our opinion on what they have been able to fix from what you have judged to be wrong. Before I respond to a few comments, let me say that the most obnoxious thing that is being done here in Parliament throughout the entire debate is the way that teachers and raise wages are being talked about, so it's basically that they say that if someone has received a raise, they shouldn't complain, they shouldn't speak up if something is not so... [[Intruders from Fidesz: No one said that!]] That was practically the message of many of their comments. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Don't lie. István Szilárd Németh: A vile lie! György Balla intervenes.]] That's pretty much what happened, obviously we're not seeing what they're saying. And then, if you'll excuse me, I'll keep going. Some Members, Mr Pósán, spoke first and quoted letters, and I will immediately come to wages, since it is also typical of the quote we choose. One quote from the letter in its opinion was that one of the directors agreed with the expectation that higher wages would have higher expectations. Please, if you admit that, then that means that there was no real wage arrangement. If they say that increased wages have been added to additional tasks, they have not settled wages - that is to be acknowledged! If wages were raised and not to the same expectations as before, but to add additional tasks, then practically only the extra tasks were financed without wanting to settle the wages that were previously low. Please, that's what we're talking about. It's a system of extra tasks. In another letter, Mr Pósán specifically quoted that the system of tutoring had become more effective. Couldn't it be that he became more effective because there's a greater need for tutoring? Could it not be that this demand simply increased and the education system adapted to it? Isn't it possible that the size of the need for tutoring itself induces the quality of education? [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] I know, I'll sit down with one, sir. If you gave me that, I didn't expect a better grade from the teacher. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. György Balla: You deserve nothing better!]] I would have expected Szilárd Németh, I would have expected Szilárd Németh to bring up the cost reduction, and I was completely surprised to hear from Professor Pósán, a scientist, that this argument was actually solved by the reduction in the cost of education, and it was good for teachers. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] , he even mentioned the cuts in sjaja, obviously the protocol can be looked back, so the cuts in sja helped the teachers a lot, and the cuts in the rent, that's what was said. This is completely typical, and I congratulate you on that, so if this is what made education policy good in Hungary, then we understand what is happening. Mr Bence Rétvári's speech was also interesting, as he began his speech by signing this sheet together with Jobbik and the MSZP. Basically, when he said these thoughts, I started to wonder if it was worth explaining to people who don't understand that a professional matter is more important than party politics, what democratic party they exist in. [[György Balla intervenes.]] what people think about democracy, who basically... [[György Balla: Try to understand first.]] ...who basically don't understand that in different cases we simply have to cooperate. [[György Balla: Are you the one who wears manure?]] But basically what opposition parties are able to do is to put aside their party political views, their ideological differences for a cause, and, apparently, the Fidesz and the ruling parties are not at all aware that they can be professional. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, spoke of the expression that he was insufferable in all tastes. Did he summon a gentleman or-- sorry. - a woman who, listed, received in 2012 and 13 money from the government, specifically complained that she considered herself a civilian, and basically how it could be that she had done so many studies. So, first of all, how much money has been spent on these tasks, it was you who gave it to me, so in 11th, 12th and 13th too, it was your decision to make sure that this was accounted for, and it was your decision to use it. The fact that a researcher or a scientist may be sensitive to the fact that if he describes important thoughts, important directions, then the decision makers do not take this into account to any extent, it is no wonder that this might be a really sensitive point. And the same question is that you have given examples of the architectural system here, what if the designer plans or plans to do so. Please, even though studies are being carried out, even if they make proposals to transform the education system, if the government does not use them. And if Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári comes with such examples, then let me come with such examples. Even though there is a large pile of perfectly fine and tasteful raw materials for a meal, if they are badly prepared, and this, whatever studies were made, whatever opinions were expressed, is the failure of education policy, which is now becoming increasingly apparent, this proves that this government could not cook a normal one from a bunch of professional, expert material, which could have been manageable and manageable. It was also basically the important moment of Bence of Rétvári, which then returned to more than one speaker, that this was a political, political and opposition intrigue, which practically enraged the teachers, and that was clearly how it began. By the way, I would like to know who you think the civilians are, who else can say that in Hungary. Don't you feel that it's your politics that eliminates and eliminates this word? You make the country a pro-government and opposition country, and there's no one left but the two camps. This classic, who is not with me, is a policy against me, and we have experienced what you represent, and on this debate day on education policy, we are constantly returning to view everyone else as an opposition. Then the Secretary of State begins to list: Pécs, Sopron, Miskolc, Szombathely, the various locations where he found such parallels, and he claims that this is only opposition. I apologize to the two concerned, I hope I am not playing with their faction membership, but I - reading in the media - saw that MEPs Máriusz Révész and János Bencsik dressed in plaid shirts because at least they were able to recognize a problem and acknowledge me. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[16.30]] And from now on, we need to discuss whether or not the government is capable of changing this problem. [[István Szilárd Németh: I was wearing a plaid shirt too.]] Basically, Bence Rétvári also said that what the socialists took away [[Németh Szilárd István: This is the essence of the thing, the squared shirt!]] We plan to give back the multiple of that. [[Noise, interruptions, the president's ringing.]] We plan to return the multiple of this, said Bence Retvári. So I have two questions: when? They haven't put it back in five years, but when are they planning to do that if they haven't been able to finance the necessary expenditure in this sector for five years? My other question is, not just when, but who else believes you. Who believes that if they hadn't done something for five years when they could have done it, now they're gonna do it because of plaid Facebook photos or a protest? So, in practice, if in the last five years they have not been willing to face the problem that has brought this present result, created these protests and social resistance, then there is little real intention to change that now. I can make the same conclusion that I made at the end of the corruption debate day, and that in order to tackle a problem, it would be necessary for you to be the first to be able to recognise this problem. You deny it. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann was the first to at least acknowledge some things that need to be improved. This would be the right way to identify the problems, find them, and accordingly take the necessary measures as far as possible, because as long as this does not happen, we are talking about a debate day where you deny the existence of the problem, what the opposition and Hungarian society claim. This... [[György Balla: You were probably raised in the school of life!]] - I'm sorry, is there a dialogue? 'Cause that's how I'm gonna do it, Mr. President, if... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-01-126	Go on, Congressman. I would ask my fellow Members to listen with greater patience to this Member. [[György Balla: Very heavy!]]
u2016-03-01-127	Basically the root of the problem is the question of whether education policy will be suitable for people who are in the education system at the moment to become adults. What do you need to do to make those generations less grown-up? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Those who go to schools right now, and if we look for their problems, I am sure that outside the funding system, we will find structural problems that can be changed, and it would be good if the debate was not about George Soros or the MSZP hacked up teachers, but about what can be changed radically. I wonder if this much mentioned round table will be suitable for asking basic questions about the education system, what skills and talents can be developed in children, what will improve the vision of a democratic system, a country providing a better quality of life, but we obviously need to rethink whether this kind of traditional education can be suitable for making a meaningful change. If there is a dialogue on when to start school, what skills-enhancing objects to appear, then, I believe, there will be meaningful dialogue, but as long as the governing parties basically deny the existence of a problem and dare not admit their failure in this field, until, I believe, there will be only about a few pointless debates left, and there will be no meaningful results. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-01-128	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-129	Thank you very much. These two-minute timeframes are very short, but I think that we have actually started to work as a debate day, and cases come up that can be discussed. The Member asked a lot of questions, I cannot answer them all, and I would like to answer his last question a little bit, whether this round table is suitable for a real debate on substantive matters, and the two questions raised by you, for example, what the knowledge content should be, the level of competence that we expect our children to have, how they will become better adults, yes, that is exactly what we are talking about. At this moment, about a hundred experts have joined the round table, working groups who discuss such professional matters, if I have more time, I will be very happy to say these things, and I think that the openness of the round table is the kind that comes from its structure, which makes anyone else able to participate. But you have to be involved in this, because if you invite someone, and they reject the fact that the round table is not legitimate, and they do not participate, let's say, in the working group on content development organised by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and they make it subject to all kinds of conditions, so it is very difficult to negotiate. I think the kind of responsibility that the participants have to feel here is a little bit lacking. And we'd be very happy to provide you with the information you requested. Thank you.
u2016-03-01-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm guessing the coworkers will deduct one minute and 16 seconds from Fidesz time. It hasn't been removed yet because 112 minutes was 54. Thank you very much. There will be two-minute comments, and in this round I will give you the order to prepare: Mr István Tukacs, Member Ikotity, and then Mr Sándor Czomba. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP.
u2016-03-01-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make two statements or statements in order to proceed with this debate. Anyone who says that teachers, parents and children's dissatisfaction is party-politically motivated is not telling the truth. Anyone who says that the dissatisfaction of children, parents and educators is nothing more than a teacher's wage demand is not telling the truth, and otherwise it applies to the envy of people. I'll give you an example because we're talking about the problem. In the summer of last year, the top of one of the schools of Vásároshnam - a beautiful town in Szabolcs - was taken away by the storm. Now, the school's been standing there uncovered for eight months. KLIK has reached the point of requesting entrepreneurial offers in mid-February. Whichever organization can't solve this case, not in eight months, but in one, is incompetent. Besides, I don't know a mayor who wouldn't have solved this problem in a month, because obviously he wouldn't be a mayor in the next term. So much for the maintenance responsibilities. And then there was the turning of the eyes here, that, uh, party politics is going to school here. Do you have the series of images of children singing silly songs at government window initiations? [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Balla: What's wrong with that? Is it politics that they're performing? Oh, my God.]] Do you have the story that the schools received a letter to go to a government demonstration or demonstration on 15 March? Now, please, the correct wording is to bring out the party policy that you have put in there. That's the whole story, and no more, and you don't have to be sorry if dissatisfaction takes its course, and the dissatisfaction with the system of public education is dissatisfaction with the parent, the child and the educator. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-03-01-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Mr István Ikotity, LMP.
u2016-03-01-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, Vice-President, said why the settlements were getting their schools back, it was in my mind that I would answer and ask her not to misunderstand me for such things, which is actually one of the basic principles of Christian democracy, because, citing the Hungarian Catholic Lexicon, Christian democracy is the political trend, the three most important principles of which are subsidiarity, personalism and solidarity. To continue quoting this lexicon: subsidiarity means that what can be resolved at a given organisational level cannot be decided at a higher level. The task of higher organisational levels is to assist, support self-organization and decide on issues that cannot be dealt with at local level. State Secretary Csepreghy replied that they could not solve these problems locally. But how could they have solved these problems when you acknowledged that the former governments did not give the municipalities enough money so that they would not make a shortage of money. Just like the former governments, you didn't give the municipalities, you didn't give the settlements enough money to manage properly. On the basis of this argument, what Secretary of State Csepreghy has said, this power must also be withdrawn from the KLIK, as the KLIK is constantly producing a shortage and must be consolidated. On the basis of this principle, this power should therefore be withdrawn from the KLIK as you did from the municipalities.
u2016-03-01-134	Thank you, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Sándor Czomba.
u2016-03-01-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the spirit of professionalism, allow us to remember the obligation to teach in two minutes for a few thoughts. I think one of the most important questions here is whether there is a link between the age of compulsory education and performance. [[16.40]] Let me give you some data. In 2010, 20 percent of the 18-year-olds had 8 general or 8 undergraduate degrees in Hungary. It's a statement. The rate of dropout was greater than 10 percent - two. The third one. In the countries best included in the PISA 2009 survey, the schooling obligation generally lasted until the age of 15 - Austrians, Czechs, I might add. In most EU or OECD Member States, the schooling age is 16 years; I would like to say some of the countries: Finland, Norway, Denmark, so the Scandinavian states are practically all of them, Belgium, France, Italy. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] Then it is worth considering whether it is the age limit of compulsory education that determines performance or perhaps something else. I think it might be something else. And if anything, an important aspect is worth drawing attention to here. Since the age limit for compulsory education has fallen to 16 years, the number of registered job seekers under 16 has increased, including the number of people involved in public employment, which is obviously no one's goal. So it is not the purpose of any government to go to public employment in 16 years. No, they go to public employment because basically parents decide to take this step because of poverty and other problems. This is a very serious challenge. So we need to take action on this, but my colleagues will be talking about what opportunities the government will have in this regard from September 2016. But the uplift to 18 years will not solve the fact that a few thousands or even thousands of young people will find their place in this system. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-01-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-137	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would just like to respond to Congressman Ikotity, who seems to have incomplete or vague historical memory - I cannot judge that, so make your own decision. Recall the decision taken in 2003 by the Socialist Government to give civil servants a 50% wage increase. Then, in 2004, they essentially forget to fulfil the obligation assigned by the State to the municipalities, and so the municipalities kept the obligation on them, but the financing of the central budget disappeared from behind this. Then, thanks to the fact that some municipalities tried to fulfil these obligations, they accumulated some HUF 1300 billion of debt by 2010. And that was the money the government gave the municipalities through government debt consolidation. So it's exactly 1,300 billion forints more than you're missing from the municipal register. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Hiller: Alas, alas!]]
u2016-03-01-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Kucsák's preliminary statement follows.
u2016-03-01-139	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk on today's political debate, and I think there has been a lot more political than what really was about education, the initiative launched by teachers. But allow me first of all to welcome the head and representative of the National Pedagogical Faculty in the Chamber, as well as the representatives of trade unions and various professional organisations behind the MSZP sector. And allow me, at the beginning of the line of thought, to refer back to yesterday, because there were many of my fellow Members who paid attention to my interpellation. I would like to mention this because if you were here and you were watching, I also tried to express in my interpellation what I think is remarkable, justified, and motivated by common thinking among the suggestions made by teachers. And if you were here, and you were watching, you could also hear the answers that the Secretary of State had made in this regard. And if you have not all been here, and many of our guests have not been here, then allow me to address these details and, in particular, to recommend to you what is going on in the present, feeling the seriousness and seriousness of the proposals, to see that there are real problems with education, and, accordingly, what measures have already been taken in the present, on the one hand, and, after the round table, on the other hand, what further measures are expected to be taken, in order to be able to find a satisfactory answer for the future in the present. We all know very well that education education is not a matter of a snapshot. And if you look at it this way, you've heard quite a lot of data and information here, in this political debate, about what kind of government debt the state had to take over; this highlights the state in which the municipalities were, the majority of the municipalities that maintained the institutions. By the way, I also looked up data from earlier periods about the withdrawal of funds during, for example, the MSZP-SZDSZ government. These are all interesting political questions, but if you'll allow us, we're going to have a little bit of a talk about politics, as Sallai R. Benedek, who is no longer in the room, is not exactly a St. Stephen's intelligence, has made references and wordings that do not tell us about detailed knowledge. That is why it is important to raise our attention to the steps that the government has taken in relation to the issues and concerns raised by teachers. The government established the round table for public education, as a former and operational organisation, as the round table for higher education. Why did the government do this? The government did this in order to make proposals, suggestions, ideas from each round in the work of this round table possible - an ugly word: this is called channelling, but let's say that they can be included. Why is that? In order to enable children, young people - and this has been said several times by my fellow Members - to become holders of truly competitive knowledge in a calm, balanced institutional system. We are all very well aware of this, and we are therefore also very appreciative of it, that the key actors in this work, the teaching-educational work, are teachers and teachers' colleagues in educational institutions. That is why, and this has already been said, the government has, in its own way, tried to express this with the introduction of the pedagogical career, with the system of advancement. This is also not taboo, as this may also be justified by internal refining, and this is also included in the planned schedule of the round table for public education. The round table therefore began its work on 9 February. Six working groups have been set up, including a Working Group on Content Development, a Working Group on Children's and Student Paths, a Teacher's Professional Strategy, a Teacher's Call, a Maintenance and Public Education Steering Group. Nearly 100 experts participated in the meetings of the working groups so far. The first proposals of the working groups have already been discussed specifically at the plenary session of the Round Table on 23 February. The working groups will cover all issues and problems relating to public education. 150 topics were mentioned at the meeting on 23 February. And as to the relationship between the topics mentioned there and the topics and the points that have otherwise been identified in the previously held district forums, allow me to recall to you the summary in which the 20 most mentioned problems or suggestions are found. So this list was drawn up from the proposals made in the study district forums held in 198 district districts. Thus, the most frequently mentioned points are: reducing the number of teaching lessons, reducing the number of teaching lessons; reducing the number of teaching lessons; reducing the individual management rights of institutions; errors of the teacher qualification system; providing tools, materials; providing teacher allowances; reducing administrative burdens; increasing the pay of teachers directly; inadequate textbooks, free textbook selection; providing infrastructure; problems of the training system; textbook supply problems; plus benefits; building up of structures; increasing the employer's powers of directors; flaws in the career model; professional strategy problems, incoherences; lack of consultation; anomalies in procurements. [[16.50]] These are, therefore, the most frequently mentioned points that have been raised in district forums, and the government has already included these issues in the work of the round table of public education; otherwise, so much so that the government has already made a decision on a number of detailed issues, and in the next period there will be further decisions on this. What groups of cases have come together, allow some thought to be given. The Public Education Round Table divided the issues to be resolved into four groups in terms of timing. Here is a category of cases that are not to be dealt with immediately. This term covers that these cases, the majority of which require legislative amendments, and in view of this, it is not possible to expect an immediate solution. So the first is the cases to be resolved immediately. This includes, among other things, the transformation of the KLIK public procurement process, the restructuring of the KLIK budget, the settlement of income losses - the daily news - and the employment of those who reached retirement age by the end of the period, the simplification of supervisory and self-assessment processes. The second group includes tasks to be solved by 1 September 2016, including: restructuring the operation of the KLIK, financing, decentralisation, organisational flexibility, process issues, management-oriented operation, reregulation of competences between KLIK and the school, resolution of the issues of operation and maintenance of KLIK and municipalities, review of employment issues. The third group includes the tasks to be solved from 1 January 2017, including: revision of the system of advancement, reduction of administration, reform of the Education Office, the income system of educators, the development of the content of teacher training, the transformation of the training system, the textbook issue, the content change, the concept of regulation, the framework plans, the revision of the National Basic School Plan, the burden of students. Finally, the fourth issue includes issues to be resolved in the long term or in the longer term, such as: the issue of digital competence, methodological issues, the issue of the regional school network, student life, interoperability, equal opportunities, review of the situation of educators, higher education. At the meeting on 23 February, the participants discussed the current ongoing legislative tasks at the public education round table. As regards the Civil Platform, it has been said that the round table awaits your representative's involvement in the round table's work. So once again, they're waiting for you to join the round table. The Association of Foundation and Private Schools and the representative of the Miskolc Herman Ottó High School have already been invited, among them Herman's director attended the meeting on 23 February. It is regrettable that the Civil Platform does not speak to the round table and has interrupted cooperation with organisations involved in the round table. In addition to them, the EMMI is still waiting for the trade unions, of whom a trade union, the MZTSZ, appeared at the 23rd meeting, and the Hungarian Musicians and Dance Artists' Union was therefore involved in this meeting. The Round Table will continue to be attended by the Association of County-righted Cities, the Association of National Interests of Small City Local Governments, the Anti-Segregation Round Table and as an expert by the OECD. The work of the Round Table on Public Education will take place in the next few days within the framework of the working groups. The next plenary session will take place on 8 March, when it will take decisions on a number of issues and make concrete proposals. I would like to note here that, on the basis of information provided by the Secretary of State, although the teachers' unions are not involved in the work of the roundtable, outside of a trade union mentioned above, a professional-compresive material from the Teachers' Union has come to the wallet, so the wallet will obviously study it in substance. For my part, I would continue to scrape the trade unions into the work of the round table, because answering the questions raised, solving the problems currently in place, dealing with them in a calm manner, and finding answers that can be considered as satisfying answers for the future, can only be negotiated. I myself believe that the measure of the substantive interest representation activity is to bring together these various points and considerations on a negotiated basis so that it is the most appropriate solution for the future generation, because, as I said, I hope that the most important issue in this room is that we all have the most important issue, the issue of pedagogy, which is the key role of educators, and the focus of this activity must always be the child and the young. This is what the representatives of the various professional and trade unions are calling for in the round table of public education, and we look forward to every single suggestion they make, and I think we can find answers, solutions that will be reassuring to all of us. Thank you for your attention, I hope. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-140	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-03-01-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2012, after the restructuring of the municipalities, the State took over a number of tasks, including public education, but also carried the resources of the municipalities, and we said several times that the state had taken over significantly more resources from the municipalities than it had taken over. This is how KLIK was created from January 2013 and so it could be that the municipalities only had the operation of the schools, which had undertaken this; of course, the municipality of Szeged has agreed to do so. My fellow Member, Mr Pósán, State Secretary Bence Rétvári, gave examples from 2006, 2010 and before our Common Era, and I would like to talk about the examples related to the Szeged district as a member of Szeged from 2013. Forgive me, if I can't say exactly and I don't want to give you an institution name for the examples, because unfortunately I was asked not to mention the name of the school, because that is the nature of the system, that they will be punished. For example, it was not legal to rename all schools in the summer of KLIK 2013 with the official notification dated 29 March, with retroactive effect on 1 January, i.e. schools were informed at the end of the school year that their names had been completely different for five months. As a representative of Szeged, I think it is unacceptable that the glassing of a gym window lasts four months, more precisely this is what took me so long at Attila József Secondary School because KLIK contested that this is actually an operational or maintenance task. I think it's sadder that the gas meter was discharged in 2014 due to a gas leak, and the head of the institution has reported this problem to the school district on several occasions, but nothing has happened for months. At the time, they began to consider the responsibility of the head of the institution, but as he was able to prove with documents that he had done everything he could, the district finally solved the problem, and in about six months we managed to produce gas to the vocational school. I think it's unacceptable to order a bus for a school trip, but the bus doesn't stand there because the service provider hasn't been paid by KLIK. It's sadder that the bus is ordered, the bus leaves, and then stops on the way, because the bus driver gets a phone that the advance hasn't been received by the service provider. I think this is unacceptable for all of us, as is the fact that in one of the best high schools in the country, Szeged, they can only finance one academic competition because they say that the school should look for sponsors for the rest. As is unacceptable, I think that the students have missed their foreign study trip to the competition, and quite simply because the KLIK did not buy the flight tickets. According to KLIK's website, 69 thousand IT tools were purchased worth HUF 12.5 billion, but for example, no one examined that the previous procurement of assets had a five-year maintenance period, so it could not have been possible to place new devices in many schools, for example in the Arany János Primary School. In addition, the company supplying interactive boards did not ask the municipality's opinion, it installed these interactive boards so that it was mounted on the back wall of the room, and in the other case it drilled a high current wire. I think that's unacceptable, too. Regarding teachers, it is clear, for example, that at Madách School the director was 62 years old, and even though he had been on the job a year ago, because he did not meet the requirements, he was expelled. [[17.00]] In several cases - Tisza Coast Elementary School, another vocational secondary school - single application, supported by all qualified bodies, has been rejected. The last time I asked the State Secretary of Rétvári about the case of the Fodor College, there all concerned, faculty, student council, after consulting everyone, was appointed by the school district director, who had no support whatsoever. And then I won't talk about how operation is characterized by manual control; telephone instructions, often unnecessary, extraordinary, short-term data request, it's regular. The letters will be answered for months, or no answer at all, and I could tell you more. This is precisely why and for these matters the municipality of Szeged is fighting for its schools until the last moment, because we can see that the system is simply not working, and we can see this from the examples mentioned above. We were the last to fight for our schools all along, but I think that we would be the first to sign up, the city of Szeged, the third largest city in the country, to take back our 20 general and 20 secondary institutions with 20,000 students and thousands of teachers from the state reserve. They're simply returning the source to this, and believe me, if not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we're ready to run the schools. Thank you.
u2016-03-01-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Földi, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-03-01-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a long time, roughly four hours, since one hour, and our opposition colleagues are trying to make us pro-government representatives who are anti-childish, anti-teachers and teachers, although that is not the case at all. When creating the Public Education Act, when it was launched, we considered and today consider that the child is the key player in the whole education system. We talked to colleagues here, saying that we usually do not teach textbooks at school, but teach children - a key issue. Another key issue is that the other very important person in public education is the educator. If you want to think about the past years, we did not go and go against the teachers, but we want to solve the issue of Hungarian public education and Hungarian public education together with them, of course, to succeed. Obviously, there are problems in all public education changes, there may be errors, dust slips into the system, the gear creaks. This happens, because by my age, I've been through a lot of public education conversions, and there's always been problems. But we are here, and I am actually happy with this debate because, at least from a pro-government perspective, we are trying to shed light on how to move forward in the system, what are the tasks that, if any, cause problems in schools today, and how we can solve these tasks. My fellow Member, László Kucsák, outlined in his speech the tasks that he intends to solve in the framework of the round table. I believe that it is fitting and welcome for those actors who are so vocal in public education to participate in this roundtable activity. But let me give you one or two interesting examples from the past period. I think the most important thing - I have a kid of my own high school age - is that every morning the kid goes to school calmly; he doesn't stress, feel free. He'll be ready the next day, and he'll be at school the next day. Without any extra costs, he was able to take almost the entire class's language exams within a school education framework. I think this is crucial, because there are real problems, perhaps relatively few people speak the language in this country today, and obviously this is something that needs to be done. I'll sign this, and I think it's very important. As for the case of colleagues, my wife is a school teacher, and before the salary increase started, she brought home a net salary of 114 thousand forints. Now it brings home 237 thousand forints. Do me a favor and count. It's been going on since 13:00. Can I count for you, please? I think the teachers worked hard for the thing they just got. Do they really deserve more? Yeah, they deserve more, they do, but we can only give you what the state can make out of taxpayers' money. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Stadiums and small trains.]] I think that in the party alliance and the government, when it comes to education, there is no no. Anyone we're open to debate with, there's no taboo. There are some problems that have occurred not since 2010, but a long time ago. But I think, and this can be seen by the heads of institutions, that there is a will and that there is an adequate source of solutions. That is why I personally ask the education trade unions not to take this matter out on the street, it is not primarily a political issue, it is a professional task to solve these problems, and especially not to bring it to school. Let me give you an example of that. One of my children, who is now a high school student, came to Prague on Friday morning with her fifth - she didn't teach on Thursday at school. They came home at eleven o'clock at night, but on the bus they discussed that either way, if they are asleep or not, they want to go to school tomorrow because they do not want to identify with the situation that certain colleagues or politicians who have coaxed their colleagues here in some schools wanted to do to their children. I wish and recommend to these organisations that they do not allow weak and desperate opposition parties to hold on to their backs. You're carrying enough weight without those political parasites. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Who wrote this text?]] Professional issues should remain, because there is plenty to be done, for example, we need to reduce drop-out rates and strengthen practical education in the field of vocational training in the context of dual training. We need to pay more attention than I mentioned earlier to the transfer of foreign language skills, but in the area of vocational training, I think it is most important to stop the fall in the quality of vocational training and to train professionals who are needed in the labour market. Vocational training should be adapted to market needs. This process needs to be established, a predictable and predictable system, which will be in place in the long term. We must create the prestige of vocational schools and vocational training. This is another very important task. We can't fall into the same mistake that we did 30 years ago that the senior students - I'm talking about elementary school - were pushed through in eighth grade by teachers with twos so they didn't stay back when they were 15, they had to put them in vocational school; they had to do it. It is therefore necessary to restore the prestige of vocational training and the prestige of vocational training institutions. Accordingly, the vocational training centers, the Ministry of National Economy, started to operate 1-3 per county and 5 centres in the capital, with a minimum number of 2 thousand students. In my constituency there is the Cegléd vocational training centre, which is one of the three in Pest County. With the maintenance change, 303 public education institutions were organised in the 44 vocational training centres, and this new institutional framework for education, with the exception of agricultural and artistic vocational training, started within this new institutional framework. [[17.10]] 712 places for the provision of tasks have been transferred to the centres, of which 365 will continue to function as a member institution. The maintenance change involves approximately 200,000 students, 25,000 teachers and directly assisting teachers. In the new system, vocational training institutions within the framework of centres receive greater management autonomy and leeway, which also means greater responsibility. At the same time, it also provides a motivational opportunity to carry out professional tasks as effectively as possible and to maintain their smooth, continuous and stable operation, as well as to make development investment more flexible. There are four vocational training institutions in Cegléd, which have been transferred to the vocational training centre, and my personal experience is that colleagues are absolutely satisfied with the operation of the system. Absolutely. So it's not true that these vocational training centers -- how should I put it? - pejoratively, they're a real organizer of institutional life. The last year's amendment to the VET Act allows vocational schools to become vocational schools from 2016-17 to vocational secondary schools, while vocational schools become vocational secondary schools. With this new solution, the dead-end nature of vocational training will be eliminated. All students in vocational education and training have an open opportunity to acquire vocational education and training based on graduation, and even to start higher education studies. The vocational training centre is open to adult education as well as school-based education. Our goal is to find the ideal opportunity for all interested people in all aspects of adult education. During the transformations, it is important for the government to ensure that private non-specialised training institutions are subject to public reservations. Private schools play an irreplaceable role throughout the Hungarian public education system, including in vocational training in the school system, therefore the primary responsibility of the state does not always mean that all tasks must be carried out in the public institution system. However, it must report that, if a non-State operator is involved in the performance of the public tasks, it will be assisted by the State with budgetary support. However, it should be pointed out that vocational training is essentially a public task and that support in addition to public vocational training is only possible if this task is partially or totally not performed by public vocational training institutions. For this reason, it is particularly important for private schools to play a role in achieving important goals for society, particularly in relation to specific tasks. Overall, it can therefore be said that it is proposed to rationalise the budget of vocational training centres over a long period of time and to take further measures, since it should be noted that the rise and long-term competitiveness of the country depend on public education as well as on vocational training. This is where we count on the partnership between professional chambers and the business world, because we have a common interest. This process has been successfully launched, and I wish to ourselves, all the dear colleagues and students involved in vocational training, that we can bring this change to success together, and that in the future the children who have graduated here will become serious skilled workers and find their progress locally in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-144	Thank you, Earth Congressman. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Gergely Farkas, Member Jobbik.
u2016-03-01-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I have been thinking here, listening to this debate, that if all that matters from our point of view is that we only hope for political benefit from today's debate, then it would be worth giving us our time, because your arrogant, unrealized, often instructive speeches are absolutely on our behalf. But, obviously, this is not our goal, but our goal is to have a professional debate. It's amazing that you're out of touch with reality and, despite all your mistakes, you're confident to listen to your words as they appear here. It is really important to be able to talk about professional proposals, because it is the only way to make sense of this debate day. Let me start by making a request to support this with Rose Hoffmann. You said that we respect, respect teachers. Then allow me to respectfully ask you to ask your fellow Members and members of the government not to lie about teachers, not to lie that teachers are only on the street because they want a raise. This is what you are communicating, and many of your speakers have spoken about the type of teacher wage increase that has taken place in recent years. We all know that, we all know that, but that's not why teachers raised their voices, that's not why there were tens of thousands of protests, that's not why tens of thousands of teachers or who knows how many. It's not that. It is about seeing the general problems that my fellow Members have already talked about with KLIK, the overload of teachers, the textbooks, the overload of students, the national basic curriculum. So it's not true the kind of expression you're saying that teachers would raise their words for their own wages. So if you really appreciate teachers, don't lie about them. And since there has been talk of overburdening teachers, educators and parents, I think that we have talked unfairly little about the layer that is most affected by the current system of public education and its problems, and this is the students. I think it is a very big mistake that students do not have the appropriate representation at the moment in order for this more than one million-dollar social class to be able to tell us exactly how he experiences the mistakes of the public education system, the system that you laid the foundations for by the Public Education Act. Every three years, the student parliament would be a forum, an opportunity to express their views. Last time there was a national student parliament in 2014, which, despite their 42-point recommendation, was able to produce very few results, as you have implemented or dealt with these recommendations in very small parts. It would be very important not for this national parliament to have the only opportunity to speak to students at its three-yearly meeting, but for the government to allow the national student parliament to meet every year, but at least every two years, and in the midst of these regular meetings, there should be a legitimate representative body of the national student parliament that allows them to represent the interests of the students among these meetings and to express their views, whether now at the council, at the round table that you have convened. This is not the case at the moment, so this layer cannot express its opinion, it cannot explain its problems, it cannot state its position on your intention to make changes. There is the National Youth Council, which is an important initiative, an important institution, but at the moment this council is not capable of covering this vast layer in one piece and representing their interests. This is why it would be important to convene more frequently the national student parliament and to create the possibility for students to be able to express their views between these meetings. I would like to talk about two important sets of problems: one is the volume of the curriculum, the issue of overload, and the other is the question of language learning. I would like to start with an analysis of the current situation. We know very well that daily physical education, as well as the introduction of religion and ethics, has increased the number of hours. We also know that in 2012 the National Basic Training Plan and, as a result, the re-regulation of the framework curricula increased the curriculum. [[17.20]] After that, after the current situation, let us get to the problems. So these are the initial motives, which have triggered the problems we're dealing with at the moment. And not just our words, allow me to quote the words of former Secretary of State of Czunyi. He said, I quote only one sentence: now in school it's a magic trick to set the schedule. Students have 7-8 hours a day, which can lead to up to 35-40 hours a week on average. I haven't been in high school that long, and I'm probably the youngest, so I can safely say that it wasn't that long ago, that 33 hours was a lot for us. In 11th grade, we probably had most of our classes. Now a ninth grade-tenth grade student has a simple 38-39 hours, seasoned with zero hours. In many cases it is necessary to hold a zero hour because it is the only way to maintain everyday physical education, because the institutional background, the gymnasiums, is missing, so they are forced to invite young people into physical education at zero hours. This 7-8 hours makes young people, children, unusable at a level such that I have to quote Rózsa Hoffmann here, he said that children will be happy to go home after 7-8 hours. Dear fellow Member, Mr Hoffmann Rózsa, I really want you to talk to as many parents as you can to see if this is what they are experiencing, that when their children sit after 0 hours and go home and learn, and see the hours of lessons they have to do that day, whether they really have joy in their eyes; whether this can really be seen from their faces. because our own experience and experience do not support this. The opposite, just that these young people are burdened, tired, unable to attend special courses, unable to attend special classes, unable to attend trainings that they would consider important. So we're experiencing exactly the opposite of everything you've said. That not only the number of lessons is many, an OECD survey can also prove that children spend the fifth most time teaching in 29 measured countries. On average, they spend 6.2 hours a week with a lesson from 15-year-old students, according to the OECD average, it is 4.9 hours from other countries. So we are not only at the top of the clock, we are not only burdened by students at that level, but also by doing things at home. Don't tell me I'm quoting a pedagogical union that may exist under opposition influence, according to you, according to the president of the National Pedagogist Faculty, compulsory lessons can be kicked up to 38-40 hours a week. In many schools there is no time for lunch, the children get food at 4:30 p.m. Thus, a number of such opinions could be quoted, an opinion which cannot be accused of opposition bias at all, teachers who are sympathetic or even neutral with you see the situation in the same way. When it comes to what to do in committee, I also have to quote the Hoffmann Rose. He said, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] be prepared by people who claim to have a lot of teaching material, another master's plan, but give them the task of taking out up to 10 percent of it. It's not gonna work. That's what you said, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I respect people's perfectionism in a lot of ways, it can be a forwarding and positive quality, but in this regard it is an infinitely wrong attitude. This is typically the case when you have to say that the less is more. Less is more, and I don't think that I should be the one to say it, because there's more time for practice, repetition, summary. This can help to deepen the knowledge of children, which can help them to benefit from that knowledge in the long term, not only from superficial knowledge that they have until the next test is written. So this is one of those things that, as painful as the need to reduce the curriculum is, it is necessary. It is necessary to take this step in order to ensure that students really have a deeper knowledge, that they are not overwhelmed, and that teachers are able to pass on knowledge that they can use in the long term. This is, therefore, the most important, and I think that if, on this day of the debate, it is said on your part that they are open to reducing the curriculum, then we can already come up with a positive one, and there is a position in which we can agree. Because it's really very important and one of the most important of many questions that might arise. The other issue I would like to discuss is the question of language learning. Let us look at the current situation, the problem and all the proposals that we can make as opposition parties and what we want to put on the table as a professional proposal. We know very well that the problem in Hungary is not that they do not spend enough time teaching languages. According to one survey, at least one student in public education attends 984 language classes during a nine-year study. This is a huge number, and we are also doing well in this way in a European comparison. This is why the situation is serious that, despite this high number of hours, students and later young people, most of the later citizens, do not have language skills that can be used. In European comparison, we are in one of the last places despite this high number of hours. This clearly shows that the problem is the methodology. The problem lies with the methodology used in public education, which is that students are faced with an overly grammar-centric, too focussed on ciphering words rather than pushing speech-centricism and focusing on small group language learning, which would allow for faster development and would really be a solution in order to improve the language skills of young people. Allow me to quote the words of former Secretary of State for Public Education, Mrs Czunyi, who also saw the problems of teaching languages well. The more serious is that you saw it correctly, yet there has not been any serious reform in this area. At a cultural committee hearing, he said that in order for a child to get a language exam for graduation and even to get an extra score for graduation, parents must reach deep into their pockets for language lessons, because language teaching within the school system does not create the possibility of a level of language learning. You have very well recognised the problem here, and how serious it is that specific language lessons are needed to get to the level required to pass the secondary language examination required for graduation, but you have done nothing. We know very well that a lot of people cannot afford to put their hands in their pockets and finance their children's language learning. So it would be important to reform language education, really to put speech-centric, small group teaching first. This would also be essential for the country's competitiveness, individual prosperity. And we shouldn't be trying on pre-graduate programs that were a good initiative, but unfortunately, it's completely ineffective. We know very well that of the more than 50,000 people involved in not being able to pass their degrees without proper language exams, perhaps two or three thousand people were able to pass a successful language exam. So it wasn't very successful. So instead of dealing with such ex-post problems, it would be important to reform the entire teaching of public education. In conclusion, I would therefore like them to change their attitude and indeed to have a meaningful dialogue here. I would like to receive encouraging feedback on the fact that they are open to meaningful dialogue in relation to the reduction of the curriculum and thus the burden on students, and are open to rethinking the national basic curriculum and the framework curriculum in an appropriate way, because this is one of the foundations for addressing the serious problems in public education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-146	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz.
u2016-03-01-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must state that the children are first for the government and Fidesz, and the most important goal is that Hungarian children gain competitive knowledge. Socialists took the money out of education, we put it back. As a teacher and politician, I find it unacceptable for trade unions to use anomalies in the education system to create political moods. Politics has no place in school. Although the close relationship between the Teachers' Union and the Socialist Party was still in play, and where was the Gallóné trade union today, when the socialist-liberal government took away the 13th month's salary from the public sector in 2004 with a great ruse, then the teachers received it monthly per salary advance, and then completely eliminated it. [[17 .30]] I also recall when, here in Parliament, 2007. CHAPTER IV Gábor Csizmár, the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Labour, replied to us in the debate, and I quote: "If they can show us in Europe or in the world another country where the public sector can have such a real wage increase, then I would be happy to hear the name of this country; they will not be able to name such a country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So in 2007 the Socialists, according to Gábor Csizmár, raised the salaries of teachers to a historic height. True, the teachers and current teachers do not remember this, and I would like to borrow the words of the head of the trade union here too:. I will tell you honestly, so I don't remember it now, we don't remember teachers, because Hungarian salaries were at the end of the EU average. In 2006 - I quote from the Journal of Teachers - the trade union closely linked to the Socialists organised alibi movements, while worrying that the other pedagogical union could be dangerous even for the Gyurcsány government at its lowest point, as a result of the general dissatisfaction. [[Dr. László Kács: You've been ruling for six years, Attila!]] So the pedagogical union was worried about what would happen if there was a national strike in 2006, and that would threaten the Gyurcsány government. Where was the union at the time when, during the socialist government, the authorities went bankrupt because they had a school they wanted to keep? I was also a mayor, a regional president, and I know exactly what took place in the small-town schools. In 381 places the educational activity ceased. Local governments have accumulated a deficit of 1,300 billion. The socialists withdrew the money, and we'll put it back into education. Where were they when teachers had to be dismissed to the municipalities because of the school associations, so we had to let more than 10,000 teachers go at that time? Where were they when, according to Ferenc Gyurcsány, there was chaos in public education? Where were they when Gergely Arató, the former secretary of state, who is now working in Brussels as an expert in DK for a great deal of money alongside János Zuschlag, said in his reply to the speech before the agenda of the Socialist MEP András Tatai-Tóth in Parliament, I quote Mr Arató: !" Many of our plans, many of our ideas in public education cannot be implemented, at least we have to postpone them. Like a teacher's allowance. Gábor Csizmár spoke of a crazy increase in wages, and Arató admits that they will simply not be able to raise wages. But where were the educators when the socialists were constantly withdrawing money from education? Well, they probably learned that in an illegal way, from Ságvári; they had pretense petitions and masquerades with friendly power. I also quote the Journal of Teachers, which was written by the PSP on 11 December 2006:, No misunderstanding, the PSP condemns not the strike, but the instrument of interest, but the irresponsible organised action, which may lead not to results, but to the dismissal of employees. It was written during the Gyurcsány government. So it grows together, which belongs to each other. But the most interesting and to me the educational policy of the MSZP is best described by one of the sentences of the late László Varga PS director, also published in the paper of the pedagogical organization on 2 December 2006, at their convention about the building of the old educator's union center - this was the Torch Club -:. This Torch Club is like the fate of the past 15 years. Somewhere it was like education, somewhere like the country, including the Hungarian public education. And here comes the point of what the socialists thought about Hungarian public education and the union:. We didn't know who it was, we didn't know what it was really doing, and we didn't know what it was like often. We knew because we were there, managing settlements, there were more of us mayors here, we knew exactly the problems and problems of teachers. Of course, now the partisans have come out again and sent the PS-Skills scenario to school. It may even be misleading: a strike-skill scenario, where teachers are asked to write down, sign: participate in a one-day strike, do not participate; participate in a multi-day strike, do not participate; and perform tasks at institutional level, municipal level, district level, county level. They're using the word "supplier" all the time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's your job, children! That's why I'm an advocacy.]] It is mandatory to present the letter of the strike committee, but the most comic is the county level - I read the sentence. The documents of the strike readiness survey have been sent to the district organisations, but they must be checked to see if they have been transmitted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. From the old principles, dear union leaders, they can't distract me. And the old principle was formulated by your protagonist, Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov Lenin. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Trust is a good thing, control is even better. They sent it out, but it's important to check, because then the system doesn't work. Well, we don't want any of this in Hungarian education. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-148	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker was István Ikotity, may be Other in Politics. You have the floor.
u2016-03-01-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for Secretary of State Csepreghy with my eyes; he'll watch it on video if you're interested. I would like to answer him first of all, because he asked for a word, and he missed my historical memory, and he said that his promises in 2002 were not fulfilled by the socialist-liberal government, and that he charged those funds to the municipalities, that the municipalities were trying to pay the teachers, and that they were indebted to him. I remember these times very accurately, all the more so, because I was teaching in high school, so I don't miss my historical memories, not at all. Dear Secretary of State Csepreghy, By this claim, it confirms my argument, as I claimed that the municipalities were starved and did so at government level. The fact that this was done by governments before 2010 does not change the fact here, but that is what I said, but that is what you are doing at the moment, that the lower levels are not provided with adequate resources, that is why they do not provide adequate resources to the municipalities, and that is why this debt is created. Here, Congressman Tilki has just spoken and mentioned this 1300 billion over and over again. [[Dr. Attila Tilki sitting next to Bence Tuzson:]] Here, thank you. And the 1,300 billion forints, which has been said several times, I would point to that. You know perfectly well that this 1300 billion, most of which was not due to the withdrawal of education. If he was mayor, he also knows what role the bonds played in this, which are in a significant part development... [[Dr. Attila Tilki intervenes.]] In much bigger cities. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, we remember these, all the more so I remember, because from 2006 I was an employee of a fidesz-led city, so please remember, take out your historical memory a little bit. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you to end this dialogue, and Fidesz has a much greater time frame. So I claimed that they went to a large part on the bonds they had taken on, and I know exactly what these bonds were about. The 1,300 billion dollar debt was far from the expenditure on education, the expenditure on operation and maintenance. My statement remains that the municipalities are good owners of schools if they receive the funds from the state. Its better owners than the large, centralized, top-run institution. [[17.40]] I supported this on a principle basis, I say this on the basis of subsidiarity - my KDNP colleague referred to this principle. This is also one of the basic principles of eco-policy: if they can decide something at local level, if they can drive something, they must do it at local level rather than by centralising it, because the central body will never be able to solve the problem that arises locally as well as it works much more costlyly, although it is obviously much less manageable in a manual way. The third part of my statement is that the municipalities did not receive fair funding either before or after 2010. That's what I said, Secretary of State Csepreghy said that my historical memory was missing, and I'm saying that either he didn't listen to what I said or he didn't listen to logic class. Let's look at these amounts, because you claim that you are putting huge amounts into education: in 2003, GDP-related expenditure was 5.7 percent, and that is what you have spent on education. In 2013, this decreased to 3.9 per cent of GDP. That's a 30% drop. Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of the Government, They give 30 percent less education! In a different approach, let's look at the main budget figures: in 2010 - and let's take this as a base - the total amount of education was 1571 billion. This obviously includes development resources. How did that change? By 2011, 1551 billion, compared to the base number, decreased by 20 billion compared to 2010. In 12, 1447 billion was reduced by 124 billion compared to the base. In 13, 1581 billion increased by 10 percent compared to 2010. In 14 it decreased by 1574 billion, by 24 billion. In 15 it increased by 1610 billion, by 39 billion. Finally, the 16-year appropriation increased by 1617 and 46 billion compared to the 2010 base. If we add these together, we'll see that during these six years, 73 billion is less dedicated to education. These are the numbers you must have heard, I don't know how much you've been listening. My first statement was that it had decreased by 30 percent in terms of GDP over the last 11 years, and that the last five years, backed by numbers from your government, I didn't buy any numbers from anywhere else, I showed that 73 billion was less planned for this. I could tell you more about OECD data. They say - obviously these are older, post-2012 data are not yet available - that while in Hungary the salaries of secondary school teachers decreased by 71 percent in seven years, they increased to 120 percent in Poland. My sympathy, by the way, is Palkovic... [[Németh Szilárd István: Which period is this?]] This is 2005-2012, so this is the period before the salary increases you have mentioned. But if you have been watching these numbers, you can also see from the fact that we are still talking about a reduction overall. I was talking about the period until 16:00, Szilárd Németh. And to the Secretary of State Palkovic, I feel sorry for him, for how can such a minus be a good thing. So they really give you very few bricks to build this castle. Mr László Földi, notary, claims that the opposition claims that Fidesz is anti-child and anti-educator. Well, I wouldn't say that, I wouldn't dare say that, but I see that their love for the children is not expressed sufficiently, because if they were to express it, then you would look at it on the financing side, you would seriously turn on it, you would invest in it, you would spend more time on it. I think that there is no need to set a more specific example: if we value something, if we consider something important, we increase the source side of it, not reduce it. Congressman Tilki also stressed that children are the most important. If our own children are more important, we're not telling them we want to save money on you, we're... [[Dr. Attila Tilki says no.]] This is shown by the facts, so I respect your statement, and I just need to turn more of this around, I say. Mr. László Földi also claimed that the opposition is making the Fidesz look like they're angry with teachers, anti-educators. It seems very much from your actions over the last few weeks that, yes, they deserve this, as they claim that teachers have not done, have lined up 25 points, have drawn up as a result of a broad cooperation, and there is no wage demand in this. [[Márius Révész: You can't read!]] And you did the math, and you said you needed 18 percent more. There's no such thing, fellow Members, you didn't ask for it anywhere. [[Márius Révész: You can't read! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, you can. They have repeatedly claimed that in order to meet their demands, they should be given an increase in wages of 18%. I've asked multiple times for this to be described, how this 18 percent comes out, not in their demands. I believe you've read the materials your advisors gave you, but please look into it, these are the facts that these teachers didn't ask for this amount. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the situation that we are in. So we have been in Parliament since 2010, and we are looking for opportunities for cooperation, looking for ways to negotiate. In 2011, you passed a public education law that was not preceded by appropriate consultations. We said, on the spot, our related sayings, which we obviously derived from our principles, and we see that, on the one hand, our principles have not changed and, on the other hand, our sayings have not changed, and we have said so since the 2011 Public Education Act. That a lot of people didn't understand it then, and then by now it's turned into a national level of dissatisfaction, it's not our fault that we're saying the same thing, and we're not hiding anyone, we've been saying the same thing since 2011, since the debate of that law. Finally - unfortunately, our time frame is running out - I think it is important that on debate day it should be said that the issue of education should be such and that at the end of a debate day we should go somewhere that is important for all of us, in which we should look for the minimums in which we agree, because one of the biggest diseases of education is that, whether every four years or every eight years, it is a huge turn, they can throw away the books, throw away the basic curriculum and so much else. We need to find a common minimum, put more effort into it. Obviously, there would be a lot of opportunities if you were open to this. Thank you.
u2016-03-01-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before the two-minute round, I give the floor to Secretary Bence Tuzson.
u2016-03-01-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here I was listening to Jobbik's comment, and I thought I'd take a quick look at what Jobbik actually has, which is available on the Internet, what kind of ideas he has. We didn't know much about it, because there are only five points in this programme, which is available on the Internet, and higher education is included in this. So opening up this content, let's say, would be interesting, and it would be interesting to talk about it, because too much these five points don't tell us. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But what is an important question is the overload of children and the burden of children, whether or not our children are overloaded, and if they are overloaded, what they are overloaded with, because we also need to know that during the past few years, everyday physical education has become the hour that has been burdened them with each week, and ethics, ethics, or belief in this respect, which is what the children have been burdened with. However, the big thing is that if you compare it to an annual comparison, the OECD average is 7200 hours, while Hungary has a total of 5500 hours. The question is therefore in competitiveness, so how Hungary can be competitive and how children can come out of the school bench who can meet the different challenges later on. However, it is also an important question that my fellow Member Ikotity raised, and how much we have spent on education and how the education budget has changed. [[17.50]] After all, we have to say that from 2010 until 2014, the number of education expenditures increased by 10 percent in Hungary at budgetary level. [[Zoltán Haughty: And how much was inflation?]] And if you take into account the amount per child, it is 15 percent, with no investment resources in it, because from 2010 it was 380 billion forints that we spent on education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a two-minute lap. First Zoltán Gőgös, then Rózsa Hoffmann, then Dániel Z. Carpathian. [[István Szilárd Németh: Ayyy!]] Here you go, Congressman Haughty.
u2016-03-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Tilki Attila... yeah, he's here, sorry, I thought he was gone. It is quite strange, my fellow Member, that you do not have one word about the fact that after the demonstrations, the KLIK abused the teachers by using its power, but rather resents the fact that the union is doing its job. By the way, it's probably not for you in parentheses, but I don't see any objection to a union doing what it's supposed to do in a democratic country, protecting the interests of its members. [[György Balla: You should do this! But that's not what he's doing!]] I would like to quote a few things - if many people have already quoted here - on 7 December 2010:, The understanding of Hungarian students improved compared to the average, but their mathematical and scientific knowledge remained unchanged compared to the results of three years ago. He announced at the Secretary of State for Education Rózsa Hoffmann's press conference on Tuesday, referring to the results of PISA in 2009. He also said that the family background of Hungarian students is worse than the average, but their results are better than expected. Rose Hoffmann says there's no loss of education, there's work to be done, but the basics are encouraging. Rózsa Hoffmann praised the teacher's work, and he has done so now. As he said, the results of the first PISA survey have highlighted the problems of understanding the text of Hungarian young people, and the improvement in a few years proves the professional readiness of the Hungarian pedagogical society and its commitment to quality education. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State and the others why the hell my wife had to write a portfolio after 32 years of teaching work from September to mid-February. My three-year-old granddaughter learned that word before all the others. [[Happy Stephen: He wrote my wife in four days, you!]] She always asked me where my mom was, and I told her she was writing a portfolio. You know, there's nothing more humiliating than PCC and BECS, right? ! It's BECS now, which was the first time. Mr. Secretary, are you saying there's a good atmosphere at school? When was the last time you were in a faculty where you were able to speak honestly? When? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] 'Cause I go to that school a lot, 'cause I go to that school a lot. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] You know what you guys did? They destroyed the normal world, at least the normal human world that was there. Shame on you! [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP Defiance in the pro-government benches. Dr. László Kács: It's not ridiculous!]]
u2016-03-01-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-03-01-155	Thank you very much. It's just that I see that a little anger has got the congressman a little carried away here. The last question is when I went to elementary school or high school... [[Zoltán Proud: When he studied! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah. So last Saturday, I was in Kecskemét, and before that, I was at Herman Otto High School in Miskolc, three weeks ago, where I spent four hours... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You should sit down with the children too!]] - I'd be happy to sit down with anyone where we talked to the faculty for four hours, by the way. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] to which this letter is attributed. It was a professional conversation, and all the elements of it, like anything else, appeared in the activities of the round table. So I suggest that the congressman also go and see a school like this and have a little chat there. [[Zoltán Pride: Me?!! Last time I was on Friday!]] As far as your other comment is concerned, let's just sort this out, so the KLIK doesn't destroy the teachers, it doesn't destroy them. What you are referring to is, unfortunately, a law obliging the leaders of the KLIK to investigate such a matter - you have received a complaint and you have investigated it. You can argue that you really need to ask him for information within 24 hours or 30 days, but if we didn't do that, then our system fell apart, and if there was another reason for it, then obviously it wouldn't have triggered this type of case. So what we're talking about here is that the head of the KLIK was doing his job, that in fact within 24 hours in this case, you can argue about it, but that he didn't destroy the teachers, that's for sure. By the way, I suggest that you read an earlier comment by that school's principal in HVG last week, which is exactly what it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: But they didn't just ask about it!]]
u2016-03-01-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP, in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-157	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not want to take over the role of the round table or working groups. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Neither do we!]] I am therefore not responding to the comment on the portfolio, whose tone of voice is that - forgive me, Congressman Haughty. - it was a little strong here, within the walls of Parliament. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. Dr. László Kács: We didn't make up the abbreviation!]] But let us hope that the round table and the representatives of the working groups will resolve this issue. I don't agree with your groundwork, but I wanted to make that clear. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] What I would like to say, however, is the matter of content and overload or overload, but more generally. Whether a child is overworked or not, the perception of it varies enough from one family to another, so let's agree on that. But let's stick to the numbers that are comparable. Their class number in the new National Basics, as has already been said, has increased by two because of everyday physical education, and because of ethics they have one, so it cannot be shown numerically that children are now more burdened than they were before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] However, schools have and may have a framework to prescribe non-binding occupations, and many people apply for them. I suggest that the people dealing with the overload and this issue investigate where and what children are overloaded. Those who use this term usually carry out voluntary extra tasks, attend a class, bilingual, bilingual, or ethnic school, where extra hours are loaded on the number of hours. I can't believe you've got 35-37 hours for a kid. Mr. Congressman, I'm speaking to you because you spoke to me too, Congressman Gergely Farkas. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Count the hours, that's all there was. And with regard to the other aspects of the overload, I'm sorry, I'll be in touch again. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-159	Mr President, Dear House, With sufficient restraint, I appeal to Secretary of State Tuzson. What you consider to be Jobbik's five-story education policy program can be found on pages 59, 60 and 61 of our more than 80-page program. [[Tuzson Bence will show you three fingers.]] My request is that if you're referring to something that can be legoogled in 30 seconds, then you'll have to take that 30 seconds - I quote you - self-criticism, self-criticism, self-criticism, that's what I recommend to you. In order to get to this two-minute point of substance, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it has to deal with a multi-annual failure, and it has to be accounted for now, because it is clear that basic knowledge of financial and consumer protection is lacking in an amazing and painful way from the Hungarian education system. We can see that, in a completely embarrassing way, it was the Hungarian National Bank that came up with a plan for what could and could be incorporated into the curriculum, but it is not the MNB's job, and it is not certain that, in the light of the current maladministration, we can safely trust it. At the same time, I must say that the foreign exchange crisis clearly proves that by improving citizens' basic financial and consumer knowledge, we can allow them to avoid certain types of traps, and I must tell you - not just the foreign exchange crisis - it is a little talkative to exchange ideas about this on the day of suspension of the eviction moratorium, when you essentially give a blessing that thousands of people will be evicted from their homes by quota instead of extending this moratorium by closing. But we must say that it is also necessary to develop the financial and consumer knowledge of Hungarian citizens within the framework of education, so that they can see, for example, that the private bankruptcy scheme that you put before them last year as a sort of redeeming solution has failed perfectly; all of this was predictable, with only a few hundred genuine interested parties and those who concluded the contract. If we equip ourselves properly [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With regard to similar knowledge, we can avoid traps, and financial and consumer self-defense is also possible. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-160	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, as we move forward in the debate, there are more and more issues that are really about meaningful dialogue, which we definitely consider to be a salutary one. That is why we believe it is important for trade unions to sit down with the government, because we can argue with each other on issues that are truly forward-looking. Therefore, allow me to interpret the Government's proposal here too, according to which the government divides matters into four categories. On the one hand, we look at what are immediately to be decided questions, including the question of the further employment of pensioners, simplified public procurement for KLIK, the credit card usage system for school directors, so that they have a financial margin for carrying out acute tasks that should now be requested through the central KLIK, the question of review of the KLIK budget or the question of supervisory and self-assessment processes. [[18.00]] In addition, the second step is the decisions that we should discuss with each other by 1 September 2016, i.e. until the start of the new academic year, such as making KLIK's organization more flexible, reviewing the competences of schools until the start of the next academic year or resolving operational issues. The tasks to be solved by 1 January 2017 include, for example, an overview of the system of further trainings, the review of the income system of teachers' assistants, the development of digital competences, the development of a long-term methodology and the establishment of a regional school network. These are all questions that we can discuss with each other then we can discuss if we sit down with each other. We are asking you to give us today's activity as an opportunity for the education round table. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Newly announced speakers will be: György Balla, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, László Vigh and Loránt Hegedűs, and obviously if there is a State Secretary intervention, it will stop this order. I give the floor first to Congressman György Balla, Fidesz.
u2016-03-01-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want to end up like the one-time congressman, who started out somehow before I said my speech, but the thing is, before I get to my premeditated thoughts, I can't miss a few words of reaction to what has been said here. First of all, Congressman Sallai, who probably ran off to carry manure somewhere. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] "I would say that the fact that someone comes in here and lies in a mean way doesn't help the political debate. It was you, Congressman, Congressman Ikotity, your party partner, who admitted that Congressman Sallai was lying. He claimed that anyone from Fidesz or, more specifically, Fidesz would have spoken against teachers and underestimated teachers. Honourable Congressman, In this part of the horseshoe, not only were our words never like this, but our actions also speak clearly. We didn't take a month's wages from teachers, we gave them a raise. They have not heard any comments here who have least underestimated teachers, because we know that the most important thing, our children, are left to them, and we stand in relation to them, and we speak of them with the utmost respect. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Ikotity: Only the resources are lost!]] Congressman Sallai also said that we are not willing to understand the problems. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No!]] That's a mean lie in itself. The thing is, the moment the 25-point series of requests came out from the teachers, the government reacted immediately. In each district, they went to all schools, asked about the problems, and the government currently has a line of 5,000 points. The educational round table was convened, where everyone who wanted to give their opinion was invited. What do you mean, we refuse to face the problems, and we refuse to respond? ! What else is there to do? Perhaps we should listen, do this, understand, work in working committees to overcome the problems that have arisen. Sentences that would be about not facing the problems of state maintenance and do not want to improve are unfair, lying, and only moody. To discuss a positive comment, Mr Gergő Farkas, except for his first sentence, in which, obviously, the Fidesz arrogance must be said for party instruction, okay, in addition to that, Mr. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We rule it out. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What you have said about reducing the number of hours, on the issue of language learning, is suitable for discussion, suitable for discussion. We are absolutely open to the question of reducing the number of hours, an interesting question, and no one in this House has said it yet, I will say it. The fact is that the difference between the hours in the OECD countries - which have been heard several times - and the hours in Hungary, in which the Hungarian is not the larger, but the OECD average, is due to the lack of such a long break in OECD countries. So anyone who talks about less hours in a week alone also says that the school year should be longer. I don't think that's Jobbik's suggestion, and I'm sure it's not Fidesz's proposal. Let's just be clear that this is the result of this difference. Anyone who says today that regardless of everything, let us remain competitive, but let us reduce the number of hours per day, also says that it should be all the way through June and by mid-July teaching, and there should be no fall break - that is what he is talking about. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In the matter of language learning, I deeply share the Member's concern; he is absolutely right. It is unthinkable and unacceptable that, while the government, the educators, are trying to do everything in the matter so that Hungary can move away from the truly deplorable state of language knowledge, the result of this is not so much visible. My debate with Congressman is only that I, perhaps because I am much older, unlike you, do not take the liberty of telling myself what caused this mistake. I do not dare to say that this is because it is too much to memorize, and too much to learn grammar, because I think that this is not my competence, but we would typically expect the language teachers to suggest that on the round table we could also tell us how to transform the language education system in order not to change in a year or two - because we obviously agree that language learning has not been bad in a year or two, but has not been actually made right - this should change. But once again, Mr President, I thank you for your contribution, because it was about what would be worth discussing. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the examination of the European Commission is very slowing down Hungarian education:. The proportion of people who perform poorly in basic skills, do not learn enough in the training of key economic sectors, the social and economic background of students has a significant impact on their performance. The results of the Hungarian students were below the EU average, and the proportion of the poor performers increased. The social and economic background and the impact of school placement - urban versus rural schools - on school performance is one of the most important in the EU. The high performance differences already observed in Class 6 have become even more visible for Class 10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a quote from an article published the other day by the liberal news portal Index. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: An article was published today!]] I'm assuming that standing next to the government wasn't leading the author of the article. However, I think that he may have been a young man, and that he was forced to wear the school bench in the liberal education system in Hiller, so he may have trouble understanding the text. This survey, this report, concerns the PISA surveys 2009-2012. Between 2009 and 2012, perhaps we were not talking about transformed public education, but this means - once again, a liberal news portal and the sentences of the Commission of the European Union - so I think that it cannot be accused of pro-governmentism. You're making yourself perfectly clear. He talks about the failure of the model represented by the liberal educational model Bálint Magyar, Gábor Fodor and István Hiller. Even though he failed, it's the worst thing that teachers have done in the meantime. They did everything they could to give the students the best, and despite this, we got to the point that we couldn't master the basic skills, and a large part of the children couldn't even get the minimum knowledge. That's basically what that means. [[18.10]] You have every right to ask me, I don't want to run away from this, whether it's better now. And I think, although I don't have any data, I don't think so. But perhaps so much fairness could be expected of everyone to try to assess that a student from about the age of 3, when he goes to kindergarten, and by the time he gets his first degree, he's 23 in a lower voice. So he goes into a system for 20 years, so it's not expected that the trend that was actually present from the beginning of the '90s, the emergence of liberal education policy, will turn from one day to the next. It wouldn't be like that if everything was perfect. But it's far from perfect. But one thing, I think, is that it gives a clear answer: what you have done, my fellow socialists, that system cannot continue. Those kids saw the damage. The liberal system that you have built, which has been governed for 12 years, has simply resulted in Hungarian education becoming the driving force of Europe. By the way, our children from the top of Europe have reached the point that they have not reached the average, nor have they mastered the basic skills. And that wasn't the only problem. The fact is that not only did your system fail in terms of results, but also in terms of funding, as a matter of fact. [[Dr. László Varga: Long live the KLIK! Take a decision.]] Look, I've been a councilman since 1990. I've been a city leader, I've been in opposition. I was a congressman in the field. I was a deputy mayor. Sometimes I was responsible for making the budget, sometimes I wasn't. One thing was absolutely certain: every year, the most difficult thing for each municipality to do when preparing the budget was to plan the budget of the institution network, and whatever they say, the HUF 1300 billion deficit that required consolidation of the municipalities was unfortunately not a development but a lack of operation, the key element of which was, for example, the operation of the educational institution network. You can deny it, you can lie about it, it just doesn't make any sense, because if you don't face it, you lie about what really caused the problem. If we do not touch this, if we do not consolidate the municipalities and leave them as institutional supporters, then the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no public education today. Not at all, it would have gone everywhere today, because there was no one who could have maintained it. The municipalities were no longer able to do this. Of course, it is easy to say that what should have been done was to take the debt away, give a lot of money to the municipalities, and keep things the way they were before. He would have recreated the deficit exactly the same way. Mr Hiller, I'm sure you know that exactly as well as I do. [[Dr. István Hiller nodds.]] Then why do you insist? Then why is this good for you? Then why don't you help us find our way together? [[Dr. László Varga: Where did you find your way with us?]] Let's look together at how to perform a normal public task - because public education is a state task - in a state way, with a public body, well served? Why are you interested in telling me why you're interested in bringing back what was already bankrupt? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We're not talking about the same thing, that's the problem!]] I'll tell you. Because the Hungarian left wants to bring back what it was because it is not left-wing. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The Hungarian Left is not left-wing [[Sándor Szabó: Don't tell me that.]] 'Cause if you were left-wing, you'd know exactly that the program that's about taking education into state control is a typical left-wing program. [[Dr. László Varga: You should be ashamed of yourself.]] To get the same knowledge for every child in every settlement, from the smallest to the greatest, is a left-wing program. To learn from the same textbook in the smallest village and the most expensive part of Pest or Buda is a left-wing program. To have the same salary for the teacher of a child with a difficult fate in the Ormania as, let's say, a teacher at the V. district elite school, is a left-wing program. [[Dr. István Hiller: That's a beautiful XIX. On the left of the century.]] Maybe it's XIX. The congressman thinks it's a hundredth; I remember that what you've done may be part of the 21st century. 100th century, it only led to the fact that there was no teacher in the small settlements, because there the municipality was unable to finance teachers' wages on credit. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why, now?]] the great XXI you led. In the 100th century program, ten thousand teachers had to be dismissed. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many did you take back?]] Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Forints 200 billion were withdrawn from [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now 400!]] Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 100th-century programme provided the difference that elite children, poor children, had a high level of education in elite schools, which should be the goal of a left-wing party after all. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] so that they can hold on through education And they fell completely, they sank completely, they fell completely, they didn't have a chance to climb up anyway! [[Zoltán Grimlock: Mr President, please give us some medicine.]] [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] To hold on through education (he raises his voice). ) and they fell completely, they sank completely, they fell completely, they had no chance of climbing up anyway! (Zoltán Grimlock: Mr President, please give us medicine!) And you're telling me that I'm XIX. I'm thinking in a hundredth way? ! (Noise, intervention in the ranks of the MSZP. - The president's ringing.
u2016-03-01-164	Congressman...
u2016-03-01-165	Congratulations, Minister. Thank God what you've done is over.
u2016-03-01-166	Congressman, your time is up. [[Zoltán Pride: There is no such thing! Let him say it.]]
u2016-03-01-167	Thank God what you've done is over. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] For a very long time, I thought that you were acting under duress, that not your own thoughts, but the SDS are forcing you to do all that you've done. But now I have to say that education has been guided along clear, liberal ideas. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Let's talk about now, Congressman.]] What is the purpose of this? Make the difference. The poor kid needs a poor teacher. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you saying that?]] A poor child shouldn't get the knowledge a rich child could otherwise have. Let's have a great choice of textbooks, dearly [[Zoltán Grimlock: In Salgótarján, this has been decided, you better sit down!]] Let's just say, the middle class you've never dealt with, the middle class kids or their parents should be burdened with paying for that textbook. [[Anita Heringes: You won't even let the middle class kids go to college!]] Then we'll make good, expensive, priceless foundation schools for elite kids, they'll get the knowledge, everyone else is dropped. [[Lajos Rig: Do the same with Matolcsy!]] It was your education policy, and I want to bring it back. And for that, what they're doing now is an outrageous charade. It's a despicable charade conducted here by your fellow party, Congressman Bellozó. He read a letter from a union leader. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: What is the shame in this?]] What's a disgrace? The fact that when someone is invited, they're supposed to represent the people who, say, elected them. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: After six years you are invited to something!]] invite him to a round table, ask him to tell us the problems, make a suggestion, then he doesn't go there, he sits in your expert box, and then he has a socialist representative read a letter. [[Anita Bering: For you do not listen to them! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congratulations. This is not a professional, this is a typical political resolution. He's not protecting the interests of teachers, he's pursuing the Socialist Party's campaign. That's what I'm talking about. [[Anita Beringes: That is why you are being driven away without your feet to the ground!]] But that doesn't have to stop us from doing anything, because it's the children that are important to us, and we know that in this case, not the trade unions, not the Pukliks, not all Soros buddies, but we can count on the teachers. [[Sándor Szabó: If you don't like it, call the bald ones.]] We're gonna count on them, we're gonna make a deal with them, and we're gonna fix everything for them. [[Zoltán Grimlock: When will you bring the skinheads?]] to have a well-functioning, state-reserved, just school system for Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.20]]
u2016-03-01-168	First of all, I welcome my fellow Members. I'd just like to point out that, according to the house rules, it's not entirely clear how long anyone can talk. [[Németh Szilárd István: Because there is no!]] Theoretically, there is a 15-minute limit, but as I have heard, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has failed to comply. That's why I'm going to continue with the previous meeting practice. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Balla speak twice more, I suggest! György Balla: You wouldn't understand! Zoltán Grimlock: Net nonsense! I'm not buying it.]] So you can talk to someone who might want to talk in more than 15 minutes. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-03-01-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I asked for the floor, but I would like to say it briefly, because my fellow Member Balla was restrained by what he said. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You think!]] And the way you've been telling me these past few minutes. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you changed diapers in your life, man?]] On the one hand, the congresswoman was furiously shouting that we would not listen to those who had made these requests. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You don't understand! How many kids did you take to school?]] , proposals are made. We've invited them to every meeting so far, to the round table of public education. If someone doesn't show up, it's hard for us to listen to his word. But that is not why I asked for the floor, but because my fellow Member Balla spoke about the crisis in the public education system and here he quoted the OECD, quoted journalists, but did not quote Minister Hiller's interview in September 2007. We've heard details of this here today. [[Zoltán Haughty: But you read it, not like last time.]] then György Baló welcomed him by saying that a lot of experts are talking about a public education crisis in Hungary. It's 2007. Here there was a polemic, and István Hiller denied that 30 billion were withdrawn from the public education system or then from public education, but it recognised 7.2 billion annually for what was obviously missing from the school budget. Obviously, this has to be multiplied on an annual basis by how many years this has been going on. [[Dr. István Hiller: No!]] Then he explains what we can agree with, that the most important task of primary school is that children learn how to read, read and count well, understand the text read, this is the basis on which to build. And the host asks, "It's clear, but why this fund has deteriorated in five years, according to you. The Minister at that time gives the reason that too many local and national decisions have been made, which have been contradictory to each other, which have eliminated the atmosphere in school that a good educator in a curriculum, when he is with 20 students, can create, too much bureaucracy [[Zoltán Haughty: But now it's 36!]] And get as much off the teachers' shoulders as possible from this burden. The reporter asks if this is a confession to defeat. By the time the Minister says it's more than a confession, it's moving on. I think if they had acknowledged their own crisis, we wouldn't have had to add anything to that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Hiller: You didn't say much with this! Zoltán Gőgös: Now there are 36 children in primary school! Sew a button on this.]]
u2016-03-01-170	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-03-01-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to respond to the words of Rose Hoffmann when he set an example that a university student is unaware of historical things. Then I'd say why this is happening. Today, a seventh - grade student has been studying history for 72 hours throughout the year. Seventy-two hours! While everyday physical education is 180 hours. He studies biology in 36 hours, and thanks to your blessed activities, Hungarian grammar was only studied in 72 hours last year, because it was also reduced this year, honourable Member. [[Happy Stephen: Is that too much or not enough?]] Now, not two hours a week, but now every two weeks only 3 hours of Hungarian grammar is taught by children, because you must have everyday physical education, ethics. With regard to everyday physical education, in case you don't know, I have said many times within the walls of this House that it has become one of the most hated subjects among children. Not because they don't like to move, but because the conditions weren't granted. Do you know what the resemblance is, Mr. Secretary, do you know the similarity between Kung Fu Panda, the Karate Kid and the Alvin and the squirrels? That children watch too often in school instead of everyday physical education, because conditions are not guaranteed. By the way, I would recommend to Members and members of the government that you watch these films, less attention be paid to public education. See if there wouldn't be so much damage in this public education today in Hungary if I watched these films and they didn't care much about unnecessary things. The other: the Congresswoman said that hundreds of thousands and millions of children go to school every day with a smile, and they are greeted by smiling teachers. Of course, the Peach Dalt is sung by the kids from home to school. I'll tell you that's not true. I'm saying as a practicing mom, the fifth grade kids have six hours every day. Eighth grade kids have six hours every day, and they're back in the afternoon for extra hours. High school kids have 7-8 hours a day, and they have special classes this afternoon. This overload in public education today! These kids are at school, and we expect more from them than we expect from ourselves. They forgot that there were violent school principal replacements and appointments. At my house, too, in Bishop's Lady. They forget that over the past few years, they have violently tried to hand over schools to churches from local governments. See in Bishop's Lady at our place, the same way. Textbook care has been a scandal for years. They also forgot that you introduced it, that textbooks have to be paid in advance. It's true, it's been eliminated since then because it caused a big scandal. I haven't been able to solve textbook care since. I would add that these long-lasting textbooks are so good that in the first week of September, we will erase them for a week, if the long-lasting textbook can survive at all, and we do not have to buy them in a week, let's say, the English textbook for 5,000 forints. So think about what hurts parents, what hurts children. Fifth grade kids in our house decided on their own not to go to school. You know, these kids are gonna be able to vote soon. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Six-year-old children!]] Congressman Balla, it would be better if you read today's article about you, how you promised the gymnasiums and swimming pools in your district, which have not been built since. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's the other one! Pointing to György Balla behind him: He is Szolnok, the other is Nógrád! György Balla: I am George, and this is Michael!]] Believe me, Mr. Secretary, it doesn't matter. They promised. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What difference does it make? Defiance.]] And they didn't do it! Anyway, yeah. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Smile, it'll die.]] And I wouldn't laugh at that! And you're saying we're using the kids? At the base of the pool in Putnok, the children were soaked in rain while Minister Balog was under the umbrella? ! And the swimming pool hasn't been built since then, I might add. The gym wasn't built in Gödöllő, and even Kaban hasn't been built since. We've been waiting for two years. I would like to join Mr Sallai: I am surprised that the parents, children and teachers have been so patient. [[Happy István: I am not surprised, he is on the same level as Congressman Sallai!]] I still have a little bit of time, so I'd like to talk to you about the SATs for 8th grade kids. Is that what you're proud of, 90 percent of 66,000 kids came out of admissions crying? Does a 14-year-old kid have to live through the first big test of his life by being doomed to failure? [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Was that better when you knew your graduation in advance?]] For eight years, he's been excellent, he's prepared, he's been taking special classes, and the odds are being taken away from him today in that 45 minutes, and a wrong line of tasks was pushed under his nose, and he couldn't solve it? ! At the high school where the kids were applying for admissions in my district, the school principal said that in 45 minutes the mathematics teacher couldn't do it, he reached the eighth task. There were ten tasks. He wasn't under pressure, he didn't have to go through stress, and in 45 minutes, a math teacher couldn't solve ten tasks. And we didn't just hear that from this one high school. Again, it was outrageous that a 12-year-old had to solve, say, 34 tasks in 45 minutes. Well, think about that, honourable Members and ladies. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-01-172	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-03-01-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In silence with the debate that has been going on for an hour for several hours now, my conviction is that the opposition, especially the Socialist Party, has been very busy with various instigations, various organizations, the organisation of backgrounds of various actions, the organisation of demonstrations, and has not followed at all what is happening in Hungarian education. [[Dr. László Varga: Which channel are you watching?]] If they had listened, they would have known that the government had conducted a nationwide public education consultation. In 198 classrooms, 2200 schools, 160,000 teachers were asked what they thought, what points should be modified, improved, and interfered with the current public education system. [[18.30]] I myself participated in my constituency and my former school, the XVIIth. in the district of this forum, and I can say that in this forum - just like in the other 197 districts of the country - teachers have been well prepared, good proposals, forward-looking proposals and, of course, criticisms. This was the purpose of these forums: tell the profession, let each educator have the opportunity, not only through trade unions, because I myself have met many colleagues who said that they feel that one or the other trade union does not represent their interests the way they expect it to be as teachers and teachers. That is why this consultation was of great importance, and once again, 160,000 teachers, teachers and teachers were able to give their opinion directly to the government. These protocols, and it is worth emphasising, were prepared in such a way that Minister Balog specifically asked that there be no names in it, so basically anonymity and anonymity could prevail. It is not about who made the observation at which school, but about what colloquial information, comments, criticisms, and forward-looking suggestions are being made from teachers and teachers. If we look at this, this is another thing, which seems to have also been ignored by my fellow opposition Members, since these findings have not been made in the debate; I feel it is necessary to quote the points of action that have already been addressed in the system of the round table of public education which was immediately set up. We know that agreement has already been reached on a few points immediately for the first time. What is raised by educators and raised by teachers not today, but also on other occasions opposition politicians, are all here at the opposition round table on the subject of its working groups [[Dr. László Szakács: The Opposition Round Table was in 1989!]] : transformation of the KLIK procurement and procurement processes; transformation of the KLIK budget; immediate settlement of income losses; employment of those reaching the retirement age by the end of the period, so that the teacher can complete a school year; simplification of the supervisory and self-assessment processes so that this has already been done. It is worth pointing out that the administrative burden is reduced to one third of these groups. By 1 September 2016, the KLIK will be transformed, the funding, the decentralisation, which you, my opposition colleagues and the teachers have also commented; not by ending the KLIK, but by how the KLIK or whatever we call it, the schools will be maintained in such a way that they are in the best interest of the child, because - this has also been said several times today - the child is the first in the school, I see that we agree on this one. We do not agree on who would like to do what for the children, because who does not go to the negotiations, who does not participate in the work of the public education round table, who wants to deal with the problems on the street, I think that it is not in the interests of the children, but in the interests of their own political interests. If we were to sit down now and discuss and act, then I see that there would be very many in the action that would not be partners, since it would be in their interest to maintain unregulatedness. You, fellow Members of the opposition, seem to want to prevent the Ministry, with the Secretary of State of the State of Palkovics, from taking the steps that need to be taken. You have said several times today that we are embellishing KLIK and polishing Hungarian education. There were no speakers in our group who did not say that yes, there are points that need to be corrected. And then we must act now, ladies and gentlemen, but then I will return to what we will do: we will re-regulate the powers within the KLIK, we will review the system of advancement as from 1 January next year, we will review the income system of educators, this was also a very important observation from the profession, teachers. Teacher training must also be put on a new footing, and I hope we will agree on that. The system of further training will be adapted, content changes will also be needed, framework plans and revision of the National Basic Training Plan will also be carried out. Digital competence, methodology, long-term development of nine-year school are also one of the most important objectives: interoperability, equal opportunities, but I could still list the topics of the Round Table working groups. I don't know, it hasn't been said today that there is a draft agreement, and this draft agreement can be found on the EMMI website. There are very important and forward-looking steps in this area, and the wallet, for example, awaits agreement between trade unions and the profession. These include, without the need for completeness: a comprehensive review of the National Core Lesson Plan and the Framework Lesson Plans, a noticeable reduction of the lexical curriculum, the development of basic competences, the experience of reducing the age limit for compulsory education, the revision of the age limit for compulsory education, the acceleration and simplification of the procurement and procurement process of the KLIK, the immediate settlement of income losses, the real costs of institution maintenance must be assessed immediately and the necessary additional resources must be provided, and this is also happening now. There is also a substantial decentralisation of the KLIK, and I have already talked about the further employment of pensioners. It is a very important demand for educators - and this is also included in the draft agreement - to review the practice of the working time register, to revise the rules on fixed working time, which have also been raised today by my fellow Members as if they had not read this draft agreement. I think that this draft agreement should be signed, who agrees with these points, who will extend his hand and accept the possibility of a solution at the negotiating table. After the extra training, the general labour law rules require hourly fees to be paid to teachers, which is also included in the draft agreement. The labour provisions of the collective agreement between the PSP and the CLIK apply to all public education institutions, regardless of their maintenance, which is also included. I have already talked about the reduction of administration and the significant reduction of reporting obligations, the revision of the income system of educators. It is very important: the last point in the agreement is that the signatories participate in the work of the round table and working groups of public education. Now, I ask you: if you do not participate in the work of the community education round table, do you not do so because you do not wish to sign this draft agreement? [[18.40]] Which one is it? But, of course, this can only be a rhetorical question today. At school the most important - we have all mentioned this, and it was a common point - the child. However, let us not forget that in the interests of the child at school, effective teaching-education work can only work if parents, teachers, teachers, and children can function in unity in a triangle. I feel that many opposition representatives want to drive a wedge between parents, teachers and children. In fact, this triangle is even squared by bringing politics to the three of the children, parents and educators - you brought politics to school and you took the teachers out into the street. And what hasn't happened before is that children are involved in this. When they tell me children, grandmothers and parents, they will go to school on that day - yesterday - but what will they say because they will be intimidated [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I wonder what's going on. A first - year - old in primary school was put in a position not to be taken to school, as far as possible, on the basis of a stimulus. I think that adults, politicians at the level of politicians, the profession at the level of the profession, teachers together with the profession and politicians will develop a possible solution, but we will leave the children out of it. Children are important not because we need to achieve something through them, but we need to achieve something for the children. I don't think so, because my fellow Member Balla has already told me what kind of system it was before 2010. Member Hiller XIX. He accused my fellow Member of a hundredth century. No, because even in 2009, you said that public schools should be provided so that the curriculum and standards are given in the smallest village and in the V. district of Budapest. That's what we're working on, and that's what we're asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-174	I now give the floor to Mrs. Loránt Violin.
u2016-03-01-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now that we are coming to the seventh hour of the debate, I think it might be time to answer one of the most important questions, who is responsible for the state of public education and health together. I am convinced that we can basically name a responsible person. Who are we talking about? Obviously, about Zoltán Balog, a financially unreliable hypocrite, presumably active in his own church. This is the person to whom the Prime Minister has entrusted the Hungarian public education, thus the fate of our children. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Mr. President, we should keep order.]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen of the state, because if you continue to rumble, I will support this with facts, and it will hurt. [[Noise, interruptions.]] So, this is the person to whom the Hungarian Prime Minister has entrusted the fate of our children. Can we now wonder if this system has fallen to the brink of collapse both financially and morally? Fellow Members! If we want to help teachers, students, parents and the whole Hungarian society at all, then we need to demand that Zoltán Balog be replaced directly from his position as a minister. If we want a change of regime, Zoltán Balog must leave and be held accountable for his damaging and sinful activities. At the same time, we must also address the difficulties in financing public education. Even though the government's hurrah-optimism, which we have already heard so much about, the often and rightly condemned normative funding and the role of the institutional supporters of the municipalities as a whole were not worse than the role of the current, i.e. the state's maintainers and the local government's operators. I'm reporting that there are as many, if not more, problems in schools right now. In the previous system, municipalities had to complement the state normative by 40-60 percent, and today, overall, this ratio has not improved, but the unreasonable centralisation of the decisions necessary for daily life has caused chaos that cannot and should not be measured on a financial basis. Let me mention three points here, because a lot has already come up. For example, you say that the debts of the municipalities were HUF 1300 billion. Yes, but it was not only because of the system of public education, but also because of countless other things. We wanted this to be investigated, and we wanted there to be a committee of inquiry that would have revealed it. What happened? You voted against it, you didn't give it the opportunity, no, because it would have turned out why Mr. Kósa's debt was 25 billion. And the other one, not to mention a distant example, is Rogania, isn't it, District V? How do children exercise in Rogania? They walk quietly because there's no gymnasium. Why not? Because Mayor Antal Rogán once sold the only school in which he still had the opportunity to teach gymnastics for more children, more than one class at a time. And let me mention one more thing. The question of school closures was also raised about how difficult this was for municipalities and how often they closed their own schools. That's what's going on right now. I just got a phone call from a country mayor who's very upset that there's gonna be a centralization there, and they're gonna shut down their school, you state maintenance. But back to the question of the funding of the institutions: it is very talkative that the municipalities which wanted to hand over the administration of their schools to the State have, in any case, taken up this burden after the resulting state withdrawal. Why? It is because the State maintainer would have wanted to withdraw an average amount of 20 per cent higher from the municipalities than it had been proven to be sufficient to operate the institutions. The central budget, in turn, shamefully gives little money, totaling HUF 2.5 billion, to individual municipalities in the event of a lack of economic and income-generating capacity, i.e. a lack of sufficient own income. This would require a minimum of tenfold if the government took seriously the issue of ensuring an adequate level of public education. My amendment to this law, almost naturally and obviously, was swept off the table by the governing party without a substantive debate, and the pro-government representatives had neither a comment nor an opinion on the financing of public education. This is how seriously they take the difficulties that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian children, feel and experience every day! Ceterum censeo: Zoltán Balog must resign and Hungary must be saved. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-176	I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to apologize to our guests for putting you in this position. Of course, everything fits into the style of the Hungarian Parliament, but I think we have now gone a little further. So I apologize for the otherwise professional debate that we invited you to in this direction. Moreover, on behalf of the Minister, I must reject what has been said, and I do not think it is appropriate to go in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Mrs. Loránt Violin: I was only talking about the truth.]]
u2016-03-01-178	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2016-03-01-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to talk to you about two important things. One has been said several times that it is important to have a dialogue, and yet it is important to have a dialogue. I think it is right, after all, that if there is a public education round table, then those who are invited and who think they are professional organisations will come to such a round table. Allow me to ask these organisations from among the walls of this Parliament to come to these consultations, because there is also a solution to the problems in such a conciliation. It is much better to agree and discuss questions at a meeting than to send messages, and by sending messages to ask someone to force them to change their position. [[18.50]] There are pros and cons in a settlement. The other issue I would like to address briefly is a fundamental moral issue in which I think we should agree between the walls of this House. After all, it has been said here several times that children are the most important. If children are the most important, then we also need to know that education is about children, it's about children, but it doesn't mean that children can be used as an advocacy tool for anything. After all, we are talking about political issues, if we are talking about education policy, but we are talking about political issues. To force children 6-8-10 years old to make a resolution on certain issues when children go to school and then ask them what their position is on these political issues is, or to confront them by coming into or not coming into school, and for this reason he must make a resolution on a political issue, I think this is wrong. It's not right at all, and we should agree on that. It is, however, that political activity must be kept outside the Hungarian legal system and generally the walls of the school. It would be appropriate to keep this activity outside the school walls in all respects. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-180	We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2016-03-01-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Don't listen to what I say for my election - you know the password, Viktor Orbán. Anyway, I'd ask you about this, or I'd say your politics is based on lies. And I would ask why the mechanism of conciliation systems has been destroyed in terms of education policy. If they hadn't done that, we wouldn't have to talk about it this way today, but we could have talked constructively about it a long time ago. They tricked the teachers, tricked the technical staff, cheated the parents, the kids, the education, talk here about any plus 10 percent, took funds out of the education. You know, if you were serious about that, then here, here, if not anywhere else, you'd have to mobilize resources here. Not 100,000 forints on average would make less money for a child in primary school and 200,000 less for a higher education institution, you know that very well. But to look at simple daily life, you know, when it comes to circumstances and KLIK, it's because the most basic things aren't in the institution. I don't want to deal with chalk and heating. But then, you know, when the painting of a classroom can't be done for months, it takes three weeks for a lock change, when a floor repair or a roof-reeling session is working together to do these things, what are you talking about changing the KLIK?!The scale of the curriculum, the freedom to choose the curriculum or the stress of the students and much more could be reported here. But I want to say to you in one sentence that everything you've done for the past six years is a disgrace. And, you know, my fellow Member Tilki, don't talk about a strike, because, shamefully, the strike law has also been brought into such a state that trade unions in this country are very difficult to do a fair strike in order to pursue their interests. If you are talking about trade unions, you should talk about the trade union that will read your letter if necessary; it does not matter whether it is PS or PDS. At least learn this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-01-182	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-183	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to go back to more relaxed policy questions, because, you know, fellow Members, it is true that in a debate we often replace arguments with passions, and generally it is not the one who is very angry. With regard to the overload, I could not finish what I just said; I would like to continue again on this trail, to draw attention to a context that is not mentioned or very little. We often complain that the education of our youth leaves much to be desired. When we begin to review curricula and complain that students are overwhelmed, let us not forget that it is the school's duty to increase their education. The curriculum creators have a lot of responsibility, and here this task force will be the hardest thing to do. Congressman Gergely Farkas has already referred to me as a classic. I did say it was almost impossible to make a curriculum, because everyone just wants to put it in, but they don't want to take anything. This temptation will continue to stand. Even when preparing the last National Basics Plan, some of the people who commented all protested why it didn't have this in it and why it didn't have that in it. I would also like to point out here that economic knowledge is involved, which is why we have prepared a national basic curriculum where other knowledge is not presented in separate subjects, but applied to traditional subjects. Whether this is the case in the course of teaching, it is the task of assisting the specialist counseling, and the task of checking the school board. In the school's free time framework, they can decide what is needed there, and the overload will then not be as dangerous as many people, I believe, say harmfully, because this statement is not true globally. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-01-184	Ladies and gentlemen, We will return to the speeches in the normal time frame. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr László Vigh.
u2016-03-01-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to be brief, to respect my fellow Members, as they would also like to comment on this very short 46 minutes. As mayor, I was a school supporter for 20 years, and I have a small insight into how different governments have helped municipalities to maintain the school. From 90 to 98 the Horn-government, between 98-2002 the Orbán government and then the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, and again the Orbán government, I saw the huge difference in funding. I saw that there were huge differences in the perception of what a government would like to do with education, what it would like to do with our villages. But I can also see the situation in which I have four children, one of my four children just graduated from college, one of them is now in college, and my youngest daughter is now in eighth grade. I've got two grandkids, one just started kindergarten, one just started elementary school. So I can see the problem from several sides. I respect the comments of my fellow opposition Members, and I hope that everyone has spoken to them because they want better in public education. As mayor, until midnight, we argued that for the state aid that was 40 percent, if a school had a budget of 100 million, then the state added 40 million, how we could add 60 million. When six out of seven municipalities agreed in the budget, one indicated that it could not add, it was not the will, but the opportunity, and the negotiations stopped from then on. I told you this because this responsibility was pushed down to the countryside, to the villages, and when the KLIK was formed, he wanted to relieve the municipalities, the villages, the mayors, the representatives from all the tension that came down there, to us, so that they wouldn't suffer these daily debates, not think about paying the electricity or the gas. The municipalities, too, have to admit, had several debates about this, unfortunately, it was owed to the school's funding. This was one of the main factors in the accumulation of 1,300 billion. When KLIK took over the schools from our villages, I think equal opportunities came up. There are differences between schools and villages now, but there is a difference because we see it doesn't matter who the principal of a school is who teaches there. 'Cause if there are excellent teachers, they'll show up at school. Among villages with equal abilities, much better children come out of schools where there are skilled teachers. And I have a lot of respect for educators. I think that this governing party is trying to do everything in its power to bring back the prestige of the teachers, the prestige of the old. After all, we used to say that I was in first class in '69 that the teacher had a great deal of respect. But in order for the teacher to teach, another thing adds that the parent should let his child go to school: whether the school will receive the child in a teachable state, rested, with food and drink, or uneducated. I think there are a lot of ingredients in getting excellent children out of oskolas. And a thought that two fellow Members here have indicated about the gym; I think that my socialist colleague, Mrs Bangón, and one of the better ones, is that the lack of a gym is a huge problem for children. [[19.00]] What I can tell you is that a lot of athletes, a lot of great people have come out of our schools at a time when there weren't any gymnasiums. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] A lot of fine children came out and got out because they were a different world. This other world cannot be brought back, we must adapt Klebelsberg to new trends. I think that fine-tuning has begun, my request is that there should be partners in creating an excellent school system in this fine-tuning process. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-186	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-03-01-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. My first thought, too, was that I would react strongly to what I heard. I have an opinion on it, and I have a very strong opinion on what you have said, but I would like to say one thing. This is also the case for Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who said from the list who they are by name, who you do not agree with; to my fellow Member, Tilki, who effectively communicated the trade unions and considered them to be such a communist, a failure. It occurred to me that no one would call anyone to the negotiating table like you did. By telling everything here in the walls of this House, including speakers [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: And they're us.]] You will tell them to come and negotiate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And a five-party arrangement, what's that like? Yeah, you guys don't even go there.]] Then I think it is no wonder that these agreements do not go forward smoothly, because mutual trust seems to be lacking. And believe me, you had time to destroy that trust because you did. There was trust. The fact that after six years, of which you have spent four years with a two-thirds majority of government, you are still talking about the period 2002-2010 and you are trying to figure out what was wrong there; what policy we should be pursuing is just the chimborasso of this, but what has happened in the last six years - [[Intercom from Fidesz: Increase in pay.]] I'm gonna say numbers - what's happened in the last three years, it's worth talking about, I think. I've heard that trade unions are already at fault here, teachers are at fault. You're not to blame for the children. We don't think the kids are to blame, but we think you are. We have heard that state-owned institutions perform well the organisational tasks they are entrusted to them. That would be the KLIK, wouldn't it? Gentlemen! Excuse me, ladies, gentlemen. The year 2010 was a terrible year for the municipalities, and every one of my colleagues was right. They had to add much more to the funding of schools to the municipalities than they had received from the state. That's right. It turned into 60-40, 40-60, but even then the sum was 1 billion 120 million forints, from which the then public education had to be organized. One billion 120 million forints! From what you organized the KLIK by 2013, you have left 411 billion forints on your budget. I don't want to be unfair, almost 412 billion, you have to look at the data, that's where we worked. [[Bence Tuzson: 1000 billion, not 1 billion!]] In 2014, they noticed that this was not good, and the KLIK budget was planned for HUF 482 billion. Where was the conscious design? Not to mention that it's already VII. On the 28th of October, the government decided to make an extraordinary government measure of almost HUF 20 billion, to be exact, in order to earn it back, VII. On the 28th of October, 19 billion HUF 748 million was added to the KLIK. The following year, they noticed that this was still not enough - let's face it, this is still less than half of what the state and the municipalities spent on public education in 2010 - it was designed at HUF 532 billion, and it was designed at HUF 532.7 billion. This had to be touched three times in 2015. Once you added 26.7 billion, once 141 million and once 10 billion forints. So much for your conscious design. This is broken down by month, IX. month, month X, month XI, month XI, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month x, month [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is it wrong that we gave you extra money?]] This is the conscious planning, the state way, the state institution's well-equipped task, which you have done. Now, let's look at 2016! Apparently, it's not enough, they're planning more, we're already at 549 billion instead of 1120. They want to add 19 billion to this already in January, and then it turns out that this will not be enough. If I'm gonna be a little deceiving, then I'm gonna say that maybe they don't spend twice as much on stadiums, then we need to raise the KLIK's budget, and they're gonna add $40 billion. This is still very, very late in 2010. [[For pro-government intervention:]] You're not gonna make it. It's the same international comparison. If I want to be unfair, then, of course, I will compare the Scandinavian countries with 3.93 percent of Hungary's GDP. 3.93! This is in Denmark 7, Finland 6.5, Sweden 6.6. But if I take the Visegrád countries as a basis, compared to the Hungarian 3.93 Poland is 5.3; Slovenia is 6.5, Slovenia is a huge economy 6.5; the Czech Republic is also a huge economy 5.2 and Slovakia is also a huge economy 5 percent. From the V4 we are 11.2 percent behind, from the OECD and the EU average, from 6 percent to one more, from 2.1 to 2.3 percent behind. Gentlemen, you shouldn't be proud of that, and if I'm gonna put in the wrong place about how much money you've made in 2015 instead of education... because what you want is what you're going to get. In the Committee on Budgets, we are debating a great deal about this. Please, you've come to state propaganda, MTVA and national consultations of 79 billion. The Liget Budapest project, which three quarters of Budapest reject, is 19 billion. For stadium constructions, $37.63 billion. They spent 165 billion forints on bank and company purchases. The National Olympic Center is 35.8 billion. The Prime Minister's Office is moving to the Castle for 10 billion, buying a public utility company and setting up for 18 billion, and buying empty gas storage units for 300 billion. This is HUF 664.43 billion, not spent on children, my dear colleague Mónika Dunai, not the children, but the Olympics, propaganda, the stadium, the Prime Minister's Office, the utility service and the empty gas reservoir. They spend more on this than on KLIK, that's HUF 664.43 billion. I think if we add MOL-pake to that, it's already over 1,000 billion. What you have organized so well and it is not mentioned, even the NGM and the FVM maintain schools. Last year, some of the schools were handed over to a vocational education centre, and these vocational education centres violated the KLIK so that their second six-month budget was no longer given to him, and it was not planned in the NGM. In these schools, the last six months have been an excellent semester, and this past six months have been there that they have not been able to figure out if there is a pipe break, then who is entitled to call the waterworks. There are institutions where water worth 1.5 million HUF has flown until they have been able to find out who can call the waterworks on the basis of the rules of competence laid down by your very careful state. Gentlemen, you have withdrawn a lot of money from this, spent a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money on something else, and created an incompetent, dysfunctional system. That's why it needs to be destroyed, which is why it needs to be stopped and rebuilt. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-01-188	I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész.
u2016-03-01-189	Dear Parliament, First of all - I did not want to start with this, but Mr Szakács complained about why we should mention the period before 2010. [[Dr. László Kács: You got the point.]] Honourable Congressman, It's relatively simple. Government debt has increased considerably during your time And he said many billions here, but I'm going to give you a bigger number, because the fact is that last year we were forced to pay 1200 billion forints for debt, by the way. 1200 billion! [[19.10]] In 2014, by the way, 1350 billion forints. That you cannot understand the budget tables, by the way, we will leave it, but in recent years we have spent about HUF 1100 billion on education, which is certainly less than necessary, but think, Mr President, that this figure is smaller than what we are spending on debt repayments for you. And you can mention the V4 countries, but the fact is that in the V4 countries, the debt ratio is significantly lower, and let's say if we were forced to repay 40-50 percent of debt, we would find about 600 billion forints in the budget every year. Six hundred billion forints, Congressman, this is your responsibility. [[Dr. László Kács: What is our responsibility? What are you talking about? You've been steering for six years!]] Dear Parliament, The thing is, I was a teacher, I ran the education committee in a district for 16 years, I have countless teachers' relatives, teachers' acquaintances, I know the directors, and the thing is, they are undoubtedly right that there have been extremely serious problems in education over the past few years. Indeed, it is true that the CLIK is too central, it is true that the CLIK is underfunded, it is true what was said that teachers have too much administrative burden, it is true that payments have been delayed, and indeed there are many, many problems. But all of this cannot lead us to say to ourselves that the previous period was completely good, that everything was fine. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that it was not all right at all. My colleague György Balla was absolutely right on this issue. The education system that worked in Hungary was everything but a left-wing education system. Therefore, they were outraged, but think about what was the point of this educational system, by the way. This education system worked in such a way that the poorest settlements were able to provide lower quality education for children living in poorer settlements than for better settlements. The truth is that the result of this education policy... - you talked a lot about equal opportunities, you fought segregation, but if you look at it in a European comparison, there was no education system more fragmented than the Hungarian education system between the OECD countries and there was no Europe. The thing is, Congressman, this has had to change. Once again, we found it unacceptable for a child's fate to be decided when he was six years old when his mother and father held him by the hand and enrolled him in elementary school. [[Dr. László Kács: It is now decided after birth.]] Because that's what happened. Indeed, if we look at it, that is exactly where the enormous odds of inequality that has been shown in the PISA measurements come from. This led to the fact that by the time the child was in eighth grade, most of the children were unable to read and write, and their mathematical and interpretation competences were clearly catastrophic. Mr Hiller published a book during his ministry, which also showed some data and graphs on vocational training, for example. Here's what's in here. One third of the children enrolled in vocational training - despite the 18-year-old age - dropped. That's the system you're protecting. But there was also a further figure in this book that 50 percent of underprivileged children enrolled in vocational training were crumbled, and if we looked at the international comparison of what the understanding of these children was like, the mathematical skills and skills of these children, then we saw quite disastrous results. Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, This system had to be changed. We don't think it's acceptable for a child's life chances to be determined by what settlement he's born into. It is not acceptable that the quality of the school be determined by the fact that the child is born in a rich settlement, in a wealthy municipality, or in a poorer settlement. This, by the way, was at the center of the transformation of the education system, which was the crosshairs. That is why we have taken the following decisions: compulsory kindergarten from the age of three, which is why we have introduced a full-day school and full-day employment, and that is why we have also tried to transform the vocational training system. To transform the vocational training system, honourable Members, let me add one more thought. It is quite strange for me to say that left-wing Members protest with a drawn sword that we are administratively trying to force children to go to school and study because they will have a chance in life, and then the same MEPs will duck over their heads and demand that, at 17 years of age, by administrative means we oblige children who cannot read and write or barely know how to go to vocational school. Honourable Members, do you not feel the contradiction? Problems have to be solved. I started by saying that we also see a significant part of the problems, a significant part of the teacher's demands. Moreover, if you look at the statements made by Secretary of State Palkovic, what he said after the round table, it is quite clear that the positions are not so far away. Teachers, together with trade unions, demand that the KLIK should not be operated in such a way. Secretary of State Palkovics promises that he will no longer operate in this way, because he will be decentralized. They're demanding that KLIK eliminate the lack of resources. Secretary of State Palkovics promises to terminate it, and by the way, KLIK has already received HUF 38 billion for this semester. They demand that the administrative burden of teachers be reduced; Secretary of State Palkovics says that the administrative burden will be reduced. They demand that you do not have to be in school for 32 hours; Secretary of State Palkovics says that otherwise there is an opportunity to do so; it is open and it needs to be discussed. They demand that we review the curriculum; Minister of State Palkovics tells us after the round table that we will review the curriculum, which is a bit longer. Then Mr Mendrey, for example, was there at the first roundtable meeting, expressing satisfaction with the results; this was not a policy change, but a political change. Anyway, we thank Mr Mendrey for this letter today, because from now on we do not have to say anything, this letter speaks for itself: it is not a policy issue in your case, but it has gone into party politics. While the same questions you demand are being answered by the Secretary of State, they say they will not attend the trial, and abcuits, and the rest, everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I think that anyone who listens to what is happening on the round table, who is monitoring the statements of the Secretary of State, sees that 80 percent of the teacher's demands are not discussed, and 80 percent of the teacher's demands will be met, and the new Secretary of State will be fulfilled. [[Dr. László Kács: No one believes that anymore.]] You have the soul to participate in this process, you want to be involved in this process, or we will solve these problems without you and the trade unions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-190	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári in two minutes.
u2016-03-01-191	Thank you very much. I just want to put in place the almost cliché socialist speech about the fact that there is money for stadiums, there is no money for education. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why, isn't he?]] The congressman was trying to prove that this government spends half as much on education as it used to. While spending on state and non-state institutions, as you said, was in the vicinity of a thousand billion forints, it was now well above last year and last year, and it was obviously above 1119 billion forints earlier. So what the congressman said was that these expenses would have been halved is not true. It is true, however, that the socialists took the money out of education. It's not me. It's the OECD. Hungary was in the six countries of all OECD Member States between 2008 and 2010 where public education was reduced in real terms and public education was reduced in proportion to GDP. A lower share of declining GDP has been allocated to public education and education, with an 11 percent decrease in the framework for public education in the last years of your governance as shown by the OECD. So you took the money that we had to put back in the system. This shows how much the teacher's salary has increased. From 122 thousand to 171 thousand, if he had a college degree, a teacher with a university degree of 3-5 years went from 135 thousand to 227 thousand, and a teacher 18-20 years old, with a higher education, increased his salary from 172 thousand to 283,000 forints. On the other hand, you took a month's salary from the teachers, pulled 17 billion forints a year out of their pockets and took 78 billion forints from the teachers in total. This is the balance, honourable Member: you have reduced the pay of teachers and have not built stadiums; we have also increased the pay of teachers [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And stadiums were built!]] And we managed to build a stadium. Yet your former Secretary of State, Mr Attila Mesterházy, outlined large stadium construction plans. [[19.20]] Their government has adopted a programme, but they have neither the power nor the opportunity to implement it, just as the teachers have failed to raise it, but only to reduce it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grumpy: There wouldn't have been a stadium in Felcsút, that's for sure! Or Kisvárdán! Dr. László Varga intervenes.]]
u2016-03-01-192	I now give the floor to Congressman Cutter Sebestyén.
u2016-03-01-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Call me a professional barbar, but I would like to talk about a problem in my own field, which concerns educational institutions, and that is the operation of the child protection signalling system, which includes educational institutions. And why this doesn't work, many of us have asked that question. By the way, compared to the other members of the signalling system, educational institutions are still performing outstandingly compared to the fact that, when compared to the other members of the signalling system, they are unable to comply with this demand. And why can't they? What many opposition representatives have already said today, and even a pro-government representative, has said that education institutions have been overwhelmed, not only by children, not just by students, but also by teachers. There would be a very good institution for this, which is also included in Hungarian law, which could solve this problem, and this is the school social worker. This was part of the government's strategy a few years ago, and it would have been the task of EMMI to work this out, and for a long time it was in default compared to its own deadline, and then when, with a delay of two years, this was included in the law, it could be carried out by a family care provider of territorially competent family services - now having child welfare centers - in conditional mode, it could perform this task. This absolutely does not correspond to the circumstances and expectations. Because we know very well that although the family and child welfare systems have been adapted, and now there are, or will be, child welfare centres, they are constantly transforming, but much of their burden will not improve, and besides their burden, these services will not be able to undertake to send a family caregiver to school social work, and if they send a social worker to school, they can do it in a fraction of their working time, when we know very well, whether social professionals or educational professionals, that this status would be needed in a full-time job in an educational institution. And why is that? On the one hand, in order to enable the educational institution to comply with its legal or legal requirements, it is possible to be an active member of the child protection warning system, because it is the educational institution that meets that child every day, and it sees that if something is wrong, it sees that a child may be at risk in his family or in his living environment. And why is it necessary for you to take full-time care of this? Because if you're in a full-time job every day, you're in a close relationship with your students to see that, you're in a daily relationship with your fellow teachers to get the signal from them, and you can take the appropriate steps. But it would not only be the task of a school social worker to use a signal to children's welfare services as part of the child protection warning system, but it could also help children in other ways, either in socialization or in the development of skills, or in the work of teachers and teachers. What am I thinking? Not only adults, but in many cases children do not know what a child's danger is, he as a child as a classmate, as a neighbor, what he can do if he perceives such a problem. Not only do they not know these things anyway, but - and not only do I think about welfare measures - other social issues do not have the right skills and abilities for children, they do not have the right knowledge, we can go down to a level that today a child from school, general or high school, is unable to give up even a registered letter. It is also a form of social knowledge, a form of social knowledge that you should be aware of. And if a full-time school social worker were to work in schools, whether it was the task, he could take this part of the school's educational task, and, in the course of a school teacher's class, not only lecture students on welfare measures and child welfare and child protection measures, he could enlighten them on what they should do, whether they experience it or even realize that children are being harmed in their families or in their living environment, but he could also pass on these skills to children, and not in a socially disadvantaged situation, in this respect, a socially detrimental situation, would leave the educational institution for children, but would be more prepared. It could therefore have a multiple function, take on a multiple task, take a burden off the shoulders of teachers, and finally really seriously and properly as a member of the child protection warning system, the educational institution could operate. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-194	I give the floor to Mr László Szakács in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-03-01-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Secretary of State of Rétvár in so far as I was talking about the KLIK budget. I also know that there are schools maintained by NGM and FVM [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] they are in even more trouble, because when they were taken over, they were not included in the Ministry's budget, but that is probably something the Secretary of State wasn't paying attention to. He wasn't in their budget. [[Bence Tuzson and Dr. László Palkovics: That's not true.]] And the first semester was a very narrow first semester for them. You have just ordered the directors to make a budget in a day and a half without a base number, and it has just been prescribed, especially in the NGM institutions, for a wage savings of HUF 20-70 million per institution. You'll have no other explanation than what I told you. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-196	I now give the floor to Victor Vinnai in a normal time frame.
u2016-03-01-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like György Balla, that before I speak in a professional framework about the state of public education, and I would like to bring here a concept besides quality education and talent management, which is creating a chance, because I think it is one of our biggest problems, let me give you a concrete example as a former municipal representative before 2010 - I address Sándor Szabó because he said that Szeged would like to take back his schools [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] He just told us to give him the resources. 'Cause how was that before 2010? In Nyíregyháza, for example, as Chairman of the Education Committee, I saw this process from 2002 to 2010, and I remember such a big table, which the socialists wrote out: more money for people, more money for municipalities! [[Zoltán Grimlock: It wasn't then!]] It is likely that there are still some of us who remember, and in addition to the norms every year - every year! - at the budget, I saw that the central normative, which comes to the institutions, including schools, in Nyíregyháza, along with the 18 kindergartens, was 53 institutions, and there were fewer and fewer resources. I'll give you a figure: In 2009, there was 5 billion forints for school maintenance, which came from the central normative, and 6 billion forints had to be added, the situation was similar to that in Csepel, 40-60 per cent, or I could say one-third or two. Now, in this situation, the municipalities are in debt, and the 1000, nearly 1300 billion forints we have consolidated... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stop talking nonsense! Wasn't there a development cost?!]] No, I didn't say that. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] But I was talking about operation. A significant part of this, my fellow Member, was a significant part of the operation. So I think that the socialists have taken money out of education, we have made money, and as György Balla said, this liberal education policy, which I would like to prove now, has failed, because in creating a chance, the differences between schools have increased (Zoltán Gőgös intervenes. ) a wealthy, say XII. Between the district council and the schools of a small settlement. You weren't there when the mayors of the small settlements almost applauded the state's role when the state took over, became a maintainer, and took over the operation, because you said that the 30-40 million forints of your budget - depending on the size of your settlement - didn't have what it had to do to make your school work safely. So much for the financing of the previous period. And then let's get back to the theme, because in this, I see that there is a consensus, but not because political parties now say that the starting point is what László Pósán, the lead speaker, said that it is in the children's interest. Yes, but the children's interests may not be recognized, teachers and parents mean what is in the child's best interests, to receive quality education, to be talented at school, or to catch up, create opportunities, extracurricular occupations, and all that school can do - as we say - to compensate, compensate or reduce disadvantages from the family. [[19.30]] This is what the school needs, including teachers, parents and us politicians who provide the framework, even though I am a teacher, I taught it for three decades at the College of Nyíregyháza - I think that Zoltán Gőgös graduated there sometime, didn't he? Only in the agricultural part, it's already an integrated part. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, in 1981.]] The point is that, when I took part in teacher training, I saw that teachers had a sense of professionalism, and I think it is because - I hope most of them - that the uproar is to make the system better. As the director of Herman High School at the round table for public education or at the committee meeting - I don't know, because they came over after the first round table for public education to the meeting of the Cultural Committee - he said that he noticed that I wanted to improve the system, and he was pleased that the government was open to a sensible debate, that everything could be discussed, which addresses systemic shortcomings and problems, but we do not want to go back to the education policy before 2010. Why is that? That's because it's the 21st. And I'm glad Dóra Dúró came back because it's XX. from the 21st century and from the 21st century to the 21st century Gábor Vona talked about the century, I wrote a few items for myself about what is important in the 21st century. In a school of the century, because circumstances change so quickly, technological changes, learning science has changed, the concept of knowledge has changed, what is really useful, gives children competitive knowledge. In my view, this new content development consists of: creating opportunities, caring for talent, developing skills and skills, education focusing on individual needs and new content development, which also means, let me say, professional, content and methodological changes. What must be done to achieve this, especially in the area of creating a chance? Public engagement, which has created a framework for creating a chance, strengthening the public service role of public education, is a public service that everyone can access and can vary within it. From the age of three, I think that the introduction of compulsory kindergartening was a good decision, and I hope that many of us agree on that. Why was that a good decision? Because participation in kindergarten education later leads to better school performances. What's our goal? I would not quote any kind of survey because of a lack of time, and in fact, if there is a better school performance, the drop in early school leaving is also decreasing, and the lack of education, so that they come out of school without a degree, this must be reduced. In my opinion, the transformation of vocational education and training has also served this purpose, so that as many as possible can obtain secondary education. Of course, I fully support that if anyone wants a degree, just know that I saw it in the college that is now a university, the University of Nyíregyháza, that 150 communication students graduated, let's say, in the early 2000s, and settled 3-4. You know, I've also met communication students at Tesco's, who I've been teaching, or history majors. They don't belong there, you know? This was then, not London, I am not talking about 2004, about our accession to the European Union, but before that. I say that we must give them the skills they need to teach in their profession, and preferably here in Hungary, but that if one of the young people wants to go and try themselves, then come back, because it is a difficult decision, as the Prime Minister said.By 2020 Hungary undertook to reduce the proportion of unskilled school leavers to 10%. It's high. I don't want to go into a number war about how much it was in 2009, how much it was in 2012; it's showing a year's decline, but it needs to be looked at in the longer term. Long-term decline can be said if the drop in drop-out is reduced over the years. The government has put in place a medium-term strategy to combat drop-out, an early warning and pedagogical support system. Here it defines the range of students at risk, and the public education institution is able to intervene. There are new jobs, the government has made progress in this, as well as the education government; the school social worker's job, child and youth protection, all of them will be funded jobs that directly help education and education. We've narrowed it down to the homeschoolers. In my opinion, it is also very important that they remain in the system. Or the extension of the teacher's allowance in disadvantaged areas, underdeveloped settlements, settlements with significant unemployment, teachers, if they teach such children, children of 3h, children of multiple disadvantages, will receive a bonus, in my opinion it is also a good system. To conclude, let me briefly say that the VET Bridge programme will be launched in September 2016. I was surprised to hear the union say that there's no need for that. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training is a whole new element in reducing early school leaving or a system without qualifications. What's this about? Those who have completed 6 classes by the age of 15 or 16 or who have dropped out of secondary education may enter the VET Bridge programme. This is basically about vocational schools, and this means that the training bridge programme can be completed by the age of 23 years, so that up to the age of 25, the two years can be completed by day training, since the training period ends in two years, with a final exam and can be started in a mid-term. It is a great achievement, and the possibility of dawdling is reduced, and it is possible to participate in it, so until the age of 25 who attends daytime education. In fact, it gives primary education or basic education and part-training. It is a motivating factor, especially for families in difficulty, that a child who gets in here can receive scholarships and learns in non-traditional school activities; personality development, socialisation, we definitely prefer this. And, of course, it is free, as in the VET system, second vocational training is free of charge, that if someone chooses the wrong profession, they can do a second profession and they can appear in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in today's dialogue - I would like to believe that there is a dialogue between us, because we are on the side of teachers, who do the work with their vocation every day, as György Balla said, that we trust the school with our most precious treasure, our children. There is a survey, I'm sure you've read that people trust teachers and teachers the best or almost the best, and when we take our children to elementary school, we often choose teachers. I think these are the main elements of the renewal of public education, and we are open to every sensible debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-198	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2016-03-01-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Szakács told me quite precisely the budgetary situation in which public education is today and where it started in 2010. In this regard, I would just like to say a few more slick sentences, from which I think it is worth starting, with the need, of course, that no one can be satisfied with the pre-2010 conditions, and I do not say that either. As a local government representative, I have also seen the problems that still had to be tackled, but compared to the 2010 situation, 200 billion were taken out of public education, public education funding has decreased significantly in proportion to GDP since 2010, and the support for education has decreased in proportion to GDP among the new Member States of the European Union that joined with us. [[Márius Révész: We have increased debt repayments, hundreds of billions.]] More resources have been taken from the municipalities in the transformation of the municipal system than they have spent on education. So, overall, it is clear that there has been a significant withdrawal from public education compared to otherwise inadequate conditions in 2010. [[19.40]] But, by the way, I could say health care here, so I could get a little more into that. This is the cause of the huge emigration, the lack of skilled labour and the social problems that, after six years, I think are clearly visible in Hungary. As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I have some points that have been said here in this debate. You know, I could say funny that I would be flattered by the many statements that the Hungarian Socialist Party is organizing discontent and demonstrations here, and I don't know. I'm glad you're thinking so much about this, but let's see what really happened, I think it's worth talking about. At the beginning of January, Herman Ottó High School's teaching faculty published a letter that - which has not been said enough - had been sent to the KLIK before and then to the State Secretary. There was no reply to this letter. And the disclosure has launched a very serious public debate. I say that if they didn't make this disclosure, I think that nothing would happen to this day, that there would be no round table, no square and no diamond-shaped table, that you would slice this social problem nicely, just like all the others, you wouldn't care about it, you would shove it down the throats of Hungarian society and the throats of those involved. Well, it didn't work, because there was a spark, a moment when worried parents, conscientious educators, actors in public education and, by the way, overloaded children sensed that, oops, everyone was thinking the same thing about the system that had evolved? Is everyone dissatisfied? Does everyone see the maladministration of this? And in fact, this is the moment that created the very serious discontent, the wave of protests that followed. There has been no such demonstration in Miskolc for a long time, it has been mentioned among the largest rural demonstrations in recent decades, about 5,000 people marched on 3 February - I note that the very sudden public education forums have been pulled together for this very day, so that there are as few as possible - and 40-50 thousand people in Kossuth Square. And this letter is not about paying teachers. I understand that, by the way, what you're trying to say is that teachers want more money, what they want anyway, because they have a great summer vacation. They must have measured this, they can measure everything because they have a source. So I understand that these are puffed, but this is not what the open letter is about, but about the general conditions of public education, which I think every Hungarian citizen may have, and especially all Members of Parliament, because this is a shared responsibility for the state of public education. I note that professional organisations have not made serious demands for the increase in salaries, but I must say that the system that has provided much less, minimal for teachers who have been on the field longer and have more professional knowledge - obviously by taking extras, overtime, many things - as for non-peducators, is not an incentive system, has much to do with this, I must say. After that, the reports of these events in the Miskolc municipal media quoted the 1950s, and the public media almost silenced it. Now, under these circumstances, I think you should not be surprised if the competent organisations and professional organisations think that fundamental changes are needed in public education. Because let me give you some quick examples of Miskolc after 2010. It is not the case at all with the professional circles and the competitions, that is not what I hear either from parents or teachers; a lot of specialized groups, a lot of competitions are missing because KLIK does not provide a source for this, so students cannot get here. To better illustrate this example, so it should be understandable to you on this kind of stadium logic, I can tell you that a gym teacher told me at a school in Miskolc that he's putting the school football team together based on who has a bus pass, because he can take him away, otherwise he won't get the money to take the kids to the other school. I'm just saying football because I'm sure it makes more sense. I'll give you another example. The neon was bad at a elementary school in Miskolc, the kids couldn't see well. Now, the parents are working together to find out who wanted to trade this. Finally, I shoot the joke, they changed it after months. Miskolc municipal institutionkeeper, KLIK and everyone were bouncing about letters, arguing for months about jurisdiction and other jurisdictional issues, and months later, with great difficulty, after plans and all kinds of permissions, they allowed parents to replace the bad neons with their own money. I'm just going to put debates on the table that, by the way, our basketboard belongs to, say, the municipality, because this is part of the building, and the net as a tool for education, is a question of KLIK. So there are many such concerns. And there's a lot of talk about textbooks, clearly negative processes, a lot of poor quality textbooks, and they've smashed up the selection. Remodeled renovations, crumbling plaster, while before 2010 many high schools were renewed in Miskolc and a lot of primary schools. I would very quickly put on the table what happened after 2010 to the director of a high school with a hundred percent support, the head of the Földes High School, whose application was repeatedly cancelled: it was very difficult, it was appointed for a long time when they stood up for him from the alumni association to the entire public opinion of the city. It is a shame that such a thing could have happened in Hungary. Talking with many parents, I would add such a huge problem to the table that the state institutional system has lost a great deal of its competitiveness because of the lack of resources and the increase in differences. This needs a solution. And I'm telling you, Miskolc, I think it's appropriate and necessary for you to take back your institutional role in this matter. I agree, of course, that the state's strong role is necessary in small settlements. One thing is certain: a new system is needed in the system of Hungarian public education. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-01-200	Ladies and gentlemen, Please indicate that KDNP has transferred 8 minutes of its time frame to the Fidesz faction. I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon.
u2016-03-01-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, I'd like to report on my personal experience in the first half of my speech, as from 2006 I worked as a deputy mayor in Győr for two cycles, and for eight years I could play a role in putting the city budget together. And indeed, during this period, if we consider the annual budget to be a cake, then the biggest cake slice has always been the financing of education, its maintenance. Thus, several municipalities were in a position, including county and local authorities, to borrow or issue bonds in order to finance their operation, even if they had never openly admitted it, but said that they wanted to use the money for development. For this reason, the State has played a significant role in accepting and taking on this task, i.e. the management and partial financing of education, of a certain total municipal debt of HUF 1300 billion. So I confirm what many of my fellow Members have said that this was a significant step. And my other thought is that we all agree that, in the centre, of course, the child is at the center, and the child needs competitive knowledge in today's fashionable word. But I would add that the child, our children, must also be in a proper physical condition, not only the spiritual state, but also the physical state, and that is why everyday physical education is important. If we look back to the period before 2012, the hours allowed were 2,5-3 hours, and then, now almost every year, the daily physical education increased to 5 hours a week. However, this must also be filled with content, and I would like to add a few points in this connection. The first such program was the so-called Puppy Literature Programme, launched in 2013, with the aim of involving a PE teacher from all primary education and education institutions. Thus, today we can say that some 2500 teachers have completed their training, and in this connection even the educational delegation could take over a HUF 250,000 asset package. Thanks to the programme, not only the professional skills of teachers have been expanded, but also the equipment of schools. And if you'll allow me, I'd like to highlight another program called "The Sports." A program. I took part in this, myself, as a Member of the Parliament of Győr. [[19.50]] Under the programme, students will have the opportunity to learn about certain sports, while under the programme there will be around 1200 public education institutions - as this programme is still under way - with specific support for sport. I think that this is also important, because about 400,000 students are affected by this programme. And perhaps another one, which concerns infrastructure development, because the government has launched a national public education infrastructure development programme aimed at providing students with access to education, the infrastructure conditions for everyday physical education, and in connection with this, the budget for 2016 includes nearly HUF 9 billion. This results in the development of gym and educational facilities, as well as the development of the infrastructure of the supply sports at kindergarten level of about HUF 500 million. And if I can highlight two more opportunities, they're EU. One applies to church maintainers, this is EFOP 4.1.1. This is also an opportunity to develop certain ecclesiastical educational infrastructure developments, renovations, remodellings, gymnasiums and gymnasiums, here there is nearly HUF 5 billion, and perhaps one more, and this is also an EFOP application, which was published recently on 25 January 2016, where a total amount of HUF 4.2 billion can be used to support everyday physical education, sport and talent management in order to create infrastructure conditions. Going back to the idea that I started, that is, indeed, for the government, and I think that for all of us, the child is first, and the aim is, of course, to ensure so-called competitive knowledge, but at the same time, it is at least so important that our children are in the right physical state. My final thought relates to the fact that, Mr Secretary of State Palkovics, I believe, that it has been proven excellently, because a kind of university integration has been achieved in Hungary without any particular conflict, and I think that this transformation, which will affect the KLIK and its professional background, will be carried out excellently by the Secretary of State and his professional staff, and I wish him good work for this. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-202	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár.
u2016-03-01-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My right-wing colleagues before me have already touched on many issues, I would like to express myself on the topic of patriotic education, defence education, and I would also like to make a proposal. But before I get to this point, let me make a point: I do not want to put another burden on the shoulders of the children who have already been overwhelmed, so I do not want to increase the curriculum, the number of hours, but I would like to introduce the basic training of other subjects. The reason why it is important to underline this is that I do not want to burden the children anymore, because I myself feel the burden on the shoulders of an elementary school child because I have two children of school age. In addition to much to learn, parents want to send children to extracurriculars, sports, music, or folk dancing, just as I do, but one of these, in addition to the school burden, is almost impossible for parents and children. Returning to defence education, I recently visited Chief of Staff Tibor Benkő, and in our discussion we agreed that the most important thing for the future would be to have children with impulses that would absorb the patriotic approach and to teach them the most basic defence skills. In primary school, they should be played out, and not in the form of a subject, but rather with interesting extracurricular programs, bringing the military closer to the children. I'm thinking of house visits or a visit to a plane day, maybe some other spectacular military demonstration. However, in upper school, most of them could be taught in 7-8 classes one hour a week within the curriculum. The material of the Defense Basics course should be designed in such a way that it is not too dry, so it can easily be digested by a 13-14-year-old child. Thus, we would do a great deal to achieve patriotic education for our children, and to reach high school, we would have knowledge that, in addition to its benefits, many would be attracted to military careers. And in today's world of military conflicts, we see how important this is. It is a key issue for the protection of our country that the future generation achieves adulthood with defence knowledge and patriotism. This would require realising as soon as possible how important the basic knowledge of defence is for the future of Hungary, so I would ask my fellow government representatives to consider this proposal for the future of our children and grandchildren. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-204	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Demeter.
u2016-03-01-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the fasting season before Easter, you usually conduct self - examination and exercise restraint. This means that he stops for a moment, looks back at the times behind him, and accounts for what he did well or what he did wrong during his work, his family life, everyday life. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there are those who have remained more in the mood of the Carsang period, and in style, wearing a mask, hiding behind a mask, trying to use teachers and students for party political purposes. [[A statement from the MSZP: Bus trip, right?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition on the left! By now, listening to your speeches, I have become increasingly convinced that trade unions, educators and children are being used for political purposes. On the other hand, the government side and us pro-government representatives, as has been said many times here in this House, are the first to have children and educators in the first place. The government's aim is to give Hungarian students competitive knowledge, while teachers receive appreciation for their daily work. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Public Education Act was introduced and I went through the schools of my constituency and talked to the teachers, I also heard positive sentences, because they said that they accepted that instead of the Public Education Act, we were talking about a public education law, because their priority in the case of first-class entry is education for a basic right life. They therefore welcomed the Public Education Act and the state reservation, the strengthening of the teaching profession, because they believe it serves to reduce inequalities of chance. After all, the child's place of birth determined the quality of his education. I know you don't like to talk about the close past, but the fact is always a fact, and you have to see that under left-wing governments the municipalities have gone bankrupt and there have been serious shortcomings in their schools. This is why we must not go back to the former system, as during the eight years of socialist-liberal governments, the educational activity ceased in 381 places. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many children were there in all of this?]] In this regard, I remembered, in a manner of speaking, the facial toaster sentences that were said by the educational politicians of the MSZP-SZDSZ government and Minister István Hiller, which I had to listen to before 2010 as mayor, and still ringing in my ears to this day [[Dr. István Hiller: Let's hear it!]] That the schools in the settlements were not closed by the government, but by the representative bodies of the municipalities. [[20.00]] Yes, but they forgot to add that during the years of socialist-liberal governance, the state has increasingly withdrawn from funding educational tasks. In maintaining and operating the system, the municipalities increasingly remained on their own and reached the point that the State normative did not cover half of the expenditure. Where the municipality was poor, there was no day care, there was no specialty, talent care, catching up, art education, sports activities, and no overtime, Jubilee Prize or severance pay. Thus, precisely as a result of liberal education policy, dropout and differences in knowledge have increased. The teacher's calling has devolved, which I believe will take time to restore. Ladies and gentlemen, We respect and respect educators. If you allow me to make a personal statement, I especially respect teachers who teach in remote villages, schools in settlements in the more disadvantaged regions of the country. They are the pillars of the education system. After all, there have also been attacks and attacks among the walls of the schooles, and there are people who have maintained a sense of community as adults. The objectives set out in the Public Education Act, we can say, are good, but in my opinion it is also necessary to consolidate and introduce the gears of implementation. In the majority of schools, educators were not misled by cube-slinging actions, but on the 29th they did their job - thanks to the teachers for this - they raised, educated the children and students entrusted to them, did not strike. But that does not mean, of course, that they do not have an opinion. They had opinions that they could have said, shared at district meetings. I believe that today's educators have confidence in education professionals and trust in achieving the goals prepared and formulated by the Round Table, the goals set out in the Public Education Act, which is to build a system of public education that promotes the harmonious spiritual, physical and intellectual development of children and young people; which is intended to lead an independent life and achieve their goals, to bring private interests into line with the interests of the public, i.e. to raise responsible citizens. I think that is why we need to work, and that is why I am asking the trade unions to sit down at the round table and the profession to make the proposals and changes with the government that are really about the development of our children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-01-206	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2016-03-01-207	Thank you very much. I feel and see more and more here, in Parliament's walls, that, unfortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction is under a dome. He put himself under this dome, under a dome that the Hungarian people's voice, the reality of the Hungarian people, no longer comes under. Under a dome where they only talk to people who are willing to listen to people who say what you want to hear. They're slowly fighting freedom with every social circle, every segment. They're slowly fighting freedom with everyone who doesn't say what you want to hear. You know, it's a typical mistake in the second cycle. This is when they lose the full support of the Hungarian population after a while. You're on your way here. Rose Hoffmann says we're not going to convince each other here, within these walls. I think that the opposition factions did not initiate this debate day to convince each other. You've been initiated to bring to you the words and thoughts you won't allow under this dome. The thoughts that teachers, students and parents now speak everywhere, but you do not wish to listen to those words. Of course, it is much easier to say that the opposition encourages parents, teachers and children to act for their own rights. It's much easier for you to say that, because then you don't have to deal with their opinions. You know, I went to school in '91. I was taught to argue, criticize, and make an opinion in the high-pitched education system. In high school, we could argue with each other about politics, public life, anything that came to mind. [[Németh Szilárd István: During the foundations of our worldview!]] At this moment, you are creating an educational system that is a typical Facebook image. I don't know, I suppose you've seen it, but your acquaintances share it: a man sits at a table and says that we give everyone the same opportunity, everyone has to swim 100 meters, the elephant, the eagle and the rabbit have the same opportunity. You're the only ones who don't listen to what the kid's like. That every child should be watched, what kind of person he is. As long as my teachers, my teachers, were able to speak to us as human beings, they could relate to us at every moment with their full heart, and we had surrogate mothers both in elementary school and in high school, today these teachers have to deal with paperwork day by day, they simply don't have time, and they're killing their souls, because you're always scolding these people. [[Németh Szilárd István: No!]] If they'd come out to the educators' medals, they'd have heard that these people didn't come to politics, they'd have just heard their voices, so that the majority in the government would finally hear what they think. All you had to do was get in line with them, and then you would have heard them, and you wouldn't have said here that the opposition was starting the fire, but you would have heard that it was your own opinion. I'd like to share a few more thoughts with you. I hear this problem a lot in my family, because I have a little kid with my brothers. My niece is a second-grade elementary school kid who's been an excellent student all along. Yet every morning this little girl finds out that her stomach hurts, her head hurts, and why she doesn't want to go to school. He's in an education system where the kid feels like it's not about him. The big problem, you know, my fellow Members, is that this child has success experiences, because he is an excellent student, his parents commend him every day, and he sees that he is very good at school. Yet he feels he's in an education system that isn't about him today. This, I think, is a huge mistake, fellow Members. While we were able to kick the ball and play with each other out in the yard in the afternoons, these kids would go home after 4-5 hours, after extra classes, and they'd be doing their homework by 11:00 at night, prepping for extra classes, and at all: they'd catch up with their parents to get into high school. This is an overload, ladies and gentlemen. You're taking away their childhood, their joy from these children. This, I think, is a level of irresponsibleness that you do not want to think about today. You clearly do not think about it, because my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, can only smile at it. The problem is, it's an outrageous thing to say. A student preparing for a teaching profession wrote down his opinion in a press organ that he should now write a motivational letter as to why he would like to be a teacher. Right now, when you're looking at your own high school teachers, you don't know what to write in your motivational letter. I mean, you can tell me why he wants to be a teacher, but how he can be a good teacher in this education system, he can't really describe it right now. My colleague from Vinnai says that the children are going abroad to try themselves. My fellow Member, don't say that in front of parents whose children are abroad today. They don't go abroad to try their luck, they go abroad to make a living, and they don't want to live in a country where you can't express your opinion or criticize it. [[István Hollik: Now you're doing it!]] 'Cause then you guys are gonna put a box on these kids right now, they're gonna be called spritzers, they're gonna be called plaids, they're gonna be called ruin taverns. Which other social circle do you wish to exclude? You're the only ones left under the little shell. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-208	I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. [[20.10]]
u2016-03-01-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my brief speech, I would like to add to the picture that my fellow Members have already drawn on the system before 2010. Allow me to quote from 168 hours on this subject. This is how it is said: - Typical picture: broken, old classroom with old furniture. It's a digital sign on the wall of the classroom. It's chalk next to it. The chalk dust takes the digital board because there's no money for software, so the teacher draws it with a marker on the digital board. This is how the weekly newspaper 168 Hours, which cannot be accused of right-wing bias, wrote about the state of public education at that time in 2009. This may be the best indication of what public education was about before 2010 and why the Fidesz-KDNP government decided to maintain schools by the state. My fellow Members have already talked about the fact that the municipalities went bankrupt in 2010 and, in fact, the schools they maintained were also bankrupt, but it is worth bringing back and recalling some symbolic issues among themselves, which were symbolic issues of social education policy before 2010. Surely many of us remember that the Ministry of Education led by Hungarian Bálint was full of corruption cases. For example, the famous Sulinet program. Under this program, several companies have been able to dispose of cheap machines in outdated configurations, damaging the state, and these machines could not be used in schools, and they were also dusted in addition to digital tablets. However, through the Sulinet program, Gyula Lepp, who was János Kóka's former son-in-law, was able to become rich, and the company Elender was grunged. They must have made very good money from the Sulinet program, but children and educators couldn't see the benefits of the Sulinet program. The privatisation of the National Book Publisher also took place under the ministership of Bálint Magyar, which this government had to restore by buying back this company. The winner of the privatisation was Ákos Erdős, Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner. This is still the smaller problem, the bigger problem is that for HUF 3.2 billion, he obtained the National Book Publisher with the highest bid being 4.2 billion, so it was 1 billion higher. The third symbolic issue I would like to mention is the matter of cocoa-proof computers. Many of the free Democratic Kálmán Kovács ministers also remember this: 300 computers were purchased for 300 million forints that were not equipped with anything extraordinary. The procurement was issued for a particular product of a single supplier. This also clearly shows that the public education system before 2010 was a failure and could no longer be maintained. Then let me also say what protests we have seen in the past and how they have been linked to opposition parties. Unfortunately, this debate day also confirms that the opposition is not interested in resolving the problems that have arisen, but in stimulating the current tension. In other words, it is in the political interest of the opposition to drive a wedge between honest educators and the government that has always been open to negotiations. We have more evidence for that. Some have already been said by my fellow Member, Bence Rétvári, and I would like to add a few to these. In Sopron, the Jakál Adrienn was one of the main performers of the protest, who was the deputy president of the Dialogue for Hungary. In Veszprém, the name of Sándor Katanics appeared among the organizers of the protest, who was a Member of Parliament in the colours of the MSZP. So far, one of the most typical examples, Krisztina Ercse, who asked for the floor as an outraged parent at a previous protest, has not been mentioned, but forgot to mention that she was an educational politician at Bajnai Gordon. And here, too, it is worth mentioning the Pukli István, who presented himself as the director of a school in Zugló, but he hid from the public that he also worked at Gyurcsány's company, and as we know from János Zuschlag, he was a comrade, comrade and friend in the past. So it can be said that if we want to take stock, it is the opposition's responsibility that today they create tension between the government open to negotiations and those involved in public education. We believe that it is necessary to have calm negotiations, not to stimulate the tension that you have done here today. I think that's where your biggest responsibility lies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-210	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-03-01-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Demeter has also given us that the opposition uses trade unions, children, teachers and everyone for political purposes, in total, combined. I can only speak on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement: we want children who can read and write from primary schools, not functional illiterates, and children who can read and write 100%, to receive the right knowledge and general education, and young people who are ready to receive higher education from high school. Schools who have a strong sense of nationhood, are trained and healthy in sports because of physical education, and otherwise live by a well - educated lifestyle. But what do we see? We see that there are many problems in education. I'd like to give you a personal example of education, which I'm pretty shocked about. It's true that it was in a school, but the example itself is quite impressive. When I was teaching students who were graduating and starting their higher education, I asked out of curiosity general historical knowledge from a class of 27 during the day. When I told them about Robert Charles, I saw their eyes turning. They asked me who Robert Charles was, and they looked at me strangely. I told them he was a Hungarian king. And when did he live? Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into No. If it isn't the 18th. In the century? No one in 27 children could place Róbert Károly and Lajos Nagy at the age, they had no idea about the House of Anjou, they had not heard of it, so they practically got out of the school board with graduation. On the same day, the same school had a class for pen pals who were on average 50 years old. I asked them about Robert Charles and Louis the Great, and miraculously everyone knew about them. They knew what was attached to their names, when they lived, what royal houses they were members of. It's amazing that none of the 18-20-year-olds knew, and everyone in the 50-year-olds knew. Those who went through elementary school and high school in the '80s came out of the school bench equipped with knowledge that we would be very proud of today. We would be very proud to see them come out the same way today, not come out in a series when they're 16 years old, people who can't read and write, and interpreter reading is practically zero. What we see is that there is a constant drop in quality. I think that all the governor's powers over the last 25 years are responsible for getting us here today. It is possible to point out to each other that we think it is the socialists, and we think it is the Fidesz, but I think that this responsibility is common. Everyone who has led education policy in the last 25 years has an angle on how the Hungarian education system has been broken down. In the eighties, Hungarian children and Hungarian students were very good at world competitions, and today we are somewhere very, very behind. I see another problem. When the second Orbán government was established in 2010, I would have expected that children would receive knowledge at school, and that they would receive an education that would strengthen national consciousness. I miss that, too. Today, Hungarian teachers working in industrial schools are looking for me by simply not having a writer, a poet, in the curriculum, who learns from children to strengthen national consciousness. There are no such things in the curriculum, he can't teach such things, so the nation's consciousness can't be strengthened in the children. This is also the reason why they can easily leave Hungary to work abroad, because they do not have the nation's consciousness. [[20.20]] During the decades of socialism, all Hungarian citizens were tried to kill their patriotism, try to kill the nation's consciousness. Since 1990, schools should have played a greater role in this, and a greater part should have been devoted to strengthening the awareness of the nation in the children. Because this would prevent those who go abroad from staying outside, so that their children should not be their mother tongue, but only their second language, and the third generation should not even speak Hungarian anymore. I mean, the way they come out is that they don't have the right nation consciousness to bring from school. And unfortunately, during the decades of socialism, it was also killed from the families. Somewhere this is also Parliament's responsibility and the responsibility of the education system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-212	I now give the floor to the MP István Happy.
u2016-03-01-213	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Before I turn to my pre-written speech, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, to the fact that teachers should be spoken with more respect. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right.]] It's not polite to say to teachers, because I got texts while I was doing it, it's not polite to say to teachers that they can't motivate students. To teachers who, when your government took away their 13th month salary, almost crippled settlements, still held out and taught our children, it is not polite to say that they cannot motivate children. Teachers have done their best to give our children as much knowledge as possible. Now your comment has demonstrated what my fellow Members have been talking about all day, that you need the problems of teachers only to see how Minister Balog can be replaced, as Jobbik demands, how the government can be overthrown. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right.]] That's what your position as an educator is all about, which you've just told me by simply talking about educators by disdaining them. I'm sorry. The other one, you've been talking all day about how kids don't like going to school. Then let a positive example be given. Interesting, our village school, which even István Hiller couldn't shut down, children like to walk. My little boy really likes to go to school. He couldn't leave this morning because he was sick, by the way. But if he wasn't sick, he really likes going to school, first grade. I don't think teachers teach you any other way than they do. Children do love school, and Hungarian teachers do everything they can to give the children the greatest knowledge. And on behalf of teachers, I resent that you don't respect that. Dear Parliament, As a Member of Parliament in 2010, one of my first comments was about the period when István Hiller successfully closed hundreds of schools as Minister of Education and took a month's salary from educators. With his actions, he drove hundreds of small settlements into poverty, took away the most important thing a village needs, the hope of the future. After all, as Sándor Hopenik put it, do not leave the church and the school. We Hungarians know there is no future without faith and without education. As a result, the settlements fought to the last degree against the actions of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government that destroyed the countryside. And they did everything they could to keep their schools. That's why they're indebted. The largest school close of our modern history, the end of the work of thousands of teachers: István Hiller. The peculiarity of politics is that today, when teachers make a legitimate request to the government, István Hiller, who closes and leaves the big school, is the loudest. In 2010, almost everyone thought that besides many other areas, the education system needed to be changed as well, because teachers were conscientiously trying to pass on the best of their knowledge to young people, and our children's knowledge was still lacking at international levels according to surveys. Most of us felt that the state urgently needed to improve the living conditions of teachers, and that the whole Hungarian education system had to be transformed. Most of the educational institutions that survived the school closure wave did not meet the requirements of Article XXI. The challenges of the century. Over the last five years, in settlements in my constituency, we spent more than 2.5 billion forints on the development of schools and the modernisation of education. [[Zoltán Haughty: And who made that decision?]] We've renovated educational institutions, used IT tools to supply schools. In addition to building and equipment renovations, there were many opportunities to improve the knowledge of teachers in schools. In addition to education, students also had opportunities to learn about the life of Hungarians across the border. Using everyday physical education, we can raise more athletic, healthier young people. I am aware that in order to ensure everyday sports, gymnasiums and training schools are needed. This year, like other settlements in the country, the construction of the school begins in Törökszentmiklós. In the coming years, the renovation of the gymnasiums and the construction of new ones will continue. I know, we're still at the beginning of the road. There's a lot of work to be done before all the schools in XXI. We'll turn it into a match for the challenges of the century. But we must never forget the starting point when we took over government six years ago, the legacy left by the Socialist Government. They've taken billions out of education, and we're putting it back, and more. Teacher work is not the same as methodical communication, even if it involves regularity, rigour and consistency - the words of László Németh. Those who choose the teaching career choose not a job, but a profession, a service. They always strive to give our children the best of their knowledge day by day to serve the rise of our nation. Their dedication shows well that in the most difficult times, when the Hiller Istváns put their livelihoods at risk, they still had the education and education of our most important children. I am pleased that in recent years, in Mezőtúr, Törökszentmiklós, Kunszentmárton and others, many have honored their trust and shared with me the problems that arose in education before the adoption of the current law and after the adoption of the law. Of course, not everything works perfectly after such a great reform, but the important thing is to resolve problems through dialogue. Pedagogist acquaintances took part in the teaching district forums organised by the Ministry of Education. They took advantage of their proposal and criticism. Over the past few days, I have been able to talk to some of them in Mezőtúr, Turkszentmiklós, and they have expressed the opinion that they can see and hear what is happening at the meetings of the educational round table, and this gives them confidence. After all, the proposals they have made will be discussed there one by one. We all know that the most important thing for the Hungarian future is that our children can go into the capital after proper education and education, and that is why the child is our first priority. Our government is on the side of educators. He appreciates their work, which is why they were the ones we worked out our first career model for. The government listens to every suggestion of teachers, and it is about solving the problems together. Together with teachers, parents, children and government, we strive to find the best solutions to the problems as soon as possible, and education is about what Hungarian teachers have always sought in the most difficult time to equip our children with the greatest knowledge in terms of their abilities. As a parent, I ask all teachers and parents not to let politics win in school. Politicians' place isn't there. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. Several socialist MEPs are standing up and applauding.]]
u2016-03-01-214	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. [[20.30]]
u2016-03-01-215	Mr. President. Thank you very much. I see that my happy fellow Member has understood nothing of what Mrs Heringes said. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm a little more sorry about your kids, because I can see why they like going to school. Probably not only the thirst for knowledge that motivates them in this regard, there's something else there, something that's starting to scare me away from sitting here. You know, my fellow Member, when it was written by your Minister for Propaganda that I should say that he is trying to deliver a text between Parliament's walls and get it accepted, my heart shrinks that there is a problem, there is a very big problem. There is a very big problem, because you, who called this situation to life, called those who raised the problems - you know, let's not talk about it - the 40-50 thousand people who said their views in front of the walls of this Parliament, were called grating cubes. I can only say that this respect, for your part, is what you're talking about. What are you talking about? He's talking nonsense. Are you talking about respect while you're calling these people scrawny squares? You know, respect is for those who started this process to get you to think at all, because I see that there was little time for six years to do anything about it. The respect belongs to the teachers, students and school workers of Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc, but the respect belongs to those who supported her not only at Miskolc but also at the level of the trade unions linked to education or through the civil sphere. Yes, because, as I said, they are at least trying to force you to think, to force you to do what you did to the education system, to quote the way it was destroyed, to rob you of 100 billion dollars, 100 thousand forints of money, and to use it elsewhere, let's say, just to make the Secretary of State aware of the matter, the total per capita quota of 10-15 thousand people in football stadiums is not as much as those in higher education, but much more, say, 5 million or 10 million forints. Well, that's something you should be able to change, and while not being classified as a secret service tool, you should be looking for people who said what, what they were organizing, what they were doing. At least hear the voice, at least try to embrace all that is trying to change this bad, six-year-old method! So, there would be something to be done in this regard, but I see that they are still suffering from selective amnesia, they are still going through an eight-year period instead of trying to look at the six-year period, and thinking about what is the greatest treasure for our children; so that these children do not leave this country after a while, precisely because of the shortcomings in education - not on your part, but on your part - they are in a position to leave this country because of the lack of funding and many other things, if they want to live. They would rather deal with this, and that the monumental institutions which are not functioning, not pushed from the side, try to balance them, supported from the side; let us say, we are talking about the KLIK, so that it is clear and clear, because there is no systemic change as long as there is a CLIK, but rather that it is stopped. Rather, they would try to find the path in the system of reconciliation of interests where they talk to all the people they need to talk to; with those who have something to do with education policy, who know what the story is about. Not with others, not with others, my happy fellow Member. You know, school principals need to be given back the rights to actually function as school principals. And I don't say much about it, but maybe I'll tell you everything about the need for a new law on public education. There is no need to overtalk the story, but if there is no new law on public education that serves the interests of children, students, we will not get anywhere in this regard. I am convinced that you do not understand what is going on in this country, or you are beginning to understand it, but the result of your efforts is not to do good, but to oppose those who want to lead you to the right path. I don't want to oversell the story, you guys robbed it in six years, pulled resources out of education policy, but also from health care, we just don't talk about it today, and you didn't even give any respect to teachers here. They are throwing different figures, which are unfair, because they do not talk about how the allowances were taken or the extent to which the inclusion of allowances represents an increase in benefits. A thousand things can be said, but not for teachers, but also for technical staff working alongside teachers. These people work for the minimum wage or the minimum wage, without them, the institutional system would collapse. That's what you should be paying attention to, so that these people don't work for 70-90 thousand forints! They'd have a thousand things to do, but they don't seem to have the ability. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-216	I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-03-01-217	Dear Parliament, We are nearing the end of the debate, and if we look back at the debate, everyone seems to bring the mandatory one, everyone will bring what is expected. If we sum up towards the end of the debate, we can say something, and I think no one has disputed the need for some kind of change in the education system, because the education system that worked was a selective education system, preserved inequalities of chance, and this system error was largely due to the fact that we made it dependent on the financial capacity of the municipalities to ensure the quality of education in the given settlement. I think we could agree if we were looking for some kind of agreement that this must be changed. It is not up to anyone who is born to decide the quality of their education, which is why the public institution system had to be taken over by the state. I think it is a state responsibility to provide children with a uniform standard of education. If we look back at what has happened in recent years, then it should be said that teachers' demands are largely justified, eligible, and the truth is, this has been said here in Parliament several times, that what teachers, what trade unions are demanding, want to go forward on those issues, we want to agree. Such is the KLIK system, such as the issue of financing, such is the issue of administration, and we can go on with it. I think that, in addition to the political debate, we can clearly conclude that there is no need to argue too much on this issue, because if we are all done, then we can conclude that there is agreement on these issues. What I can say is that it is worth to sit down, to sit down, to agree, and to create an educational system where everyone has the chance to move forward, and not to determine the fate of the child by what settlement he is born to. That's the goal. I want everyone's cooperation in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-218	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2016-03-01-219	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to deal with this separately, but my fellow members of the government are just forcing me to do it. I am very pleased that they have learned so much to quote Sándor Hopeik, it would be very good to learn how to apply it in practice. I would like to give an example of my narrower Patriot, in the village of Berzsenyi, Niklan, in Somogy, Kis. It is a village of 700 people, with a very well-functioning school, which was renovated from 40 million forints in 2006. Since the reservation caused great difficulty for the municipality, its operation was handed over to the Good of the Lord, the Baptist Church of Bodrogi. They had excellent pedagogical results, they were close to the Catholics, but in the 2015/16 academic year they returned it to KLIK, the village gave this school away, and KLIK closed it with a feather stroke. There are plausible reasons why it had to be closed. But just think that one of the main reasons put forward as an argument was that the boiler chimney should have been renovated from about HUF 3 million. Well, what can I say? What's the price of a Silka suit, say, a chimney like this? Or how many Gucci and all kinds of riddles could have done this thing? That's all there is to it about Hope and the village school. I think it's a part of being fair. Well, we can also say that, in contrast to the government's success propaganda - which seems almost everything is very nice, almost everything is very good, and almost everything is satisfied - we did not advertise a genuine national consultation in the field of education by accident. [[20.40]] After all, we still believe the doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the great historian Konrád Solomon, who said in an article of his good five years:... the Hungarian school system has collapsed, respect for isolated exceptions and teachers who want to endure in impossible circumstances. It collapsed because schools are largely completed or abandoned by the masses of uneducated and uneducated young people who are not fit to work and refuse to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence. We do not believe that government reforms have improved this assessment. We can even consider the world of vocational education and training as a national strategic area, so it is very important that we talk about it. It is important to talk about this only because because of the complex set of problems there we can consider this type of school as a veterinary horse of the educational system, and indeed, because of the complex disease, many consider vocational schools to be a terminal, a kind of shelter. This is a cardinal segment of Hungarian schooling, which is of great importance for Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence, and therefore also for the future of the country, because they have or would have a significant role to play in the integration of socially disadvantaged groups. Just two statistics to shed light on this. After primary school, at least two thirds of gypsy students go to the vocational school, and in the case of a population with a population of one million and extremely young trees, this means a huge mass of students. By the way, it's about a fifth of the 500,000 high school generation, so she's studying at a good 100,000 colleges. Thus, by setting up simple pairs of rates, it can be seen that, in addition to such school-choice trends and demographic trends, vocational schools are becoming increasingly Roma majority institutions. In Jean-Paul Brighelli's book "Programmed Death of Schools," the French suburban ghetto educational institutions, the students who go there, are characterized by the following veritable sentences. The family role models of these teenagers are criminals, their pets are pit bulls and rottweilers. They get to know easier drugs in elementary school, but there's nothing else. How about Borsod or some of the so-called gladiator trainings in some rural regions that have fallen into despair? Obviously not. As a true provider of the Industry Chamber's ideas, the government has radically changed the VET system from September 2013. Now, what kind of cure did you think was effective in treating the actual anomalies? It is clear that the response of government education policy to the existing question of quality deterioration for several decades was a very simple, neoliberal step. What we can't do, let's not push it. - said their education policy experts, and in this context the number of public knowledge classes has been radically reduced. Yes, we talk a lot about the overload of students, but in the case of a vocational education in the field of public education, however, they have made a lot of progress on the other side of the horse and brutally pushed the bike overboard. For example, István Nahalka declared the demented training a failure. [[Cries from Fidesz: Who?]] Yes, yes, indeed, he is, dear fellow Members. [[Defiance and interrogations from the Fidesz ranks.]] I mean, what's a weekly communication enough for? Listen, what good is a weekly communication, social skills, mathematics, and nature science class? This is the dystopian world of sheep school. The president of the Hungarian Vocational Training Association himself said that basic education is less efficient than steam engines, which is only 6 percent. All of this is done by the fact that students with the worst sociocultural background usually arrive in such schools, so there will be no chance of making the huge catch-up they're going to make here. The proportion of underprivileged people is around 27 percent, which is three times the average in high school, and a significant part of the overall school dropout of 12 percent is produced by one fifth of the students in vocational training. So we have indeed faced huge drop-out rates in these schools earlier, and my fellow Members can argue that the model of the Western dual vocational training models, where the main emphasis is on professional learning, can be reduced by reducing public knowledge lessons here, because they really do not want to be wisers, but to be good carpenters, masons and locksmiths. This is, on the one hand, very right, but the poor entry results measured from different surveys are worsening even further over the years of vocational training. It wasn't compared to the high school contemporary group, it was compared to their former self, so it was like being dumb all these years here, and you guys put a shovel on it. How will lifelong learning and skills be able to adapt to modern economic needs? In view of this, we can say that they are disposable skilled workers at any time from the single-use assembly line of multinational companies who will be unable to move on to the idea of long-term learning. With regard to the German dual model so often referred to, it should be said that there the 50 per cent share of vocational training from high school students is not to be faced with the fact that its dipping base covers the most problematic children, like here, in Hungary. In spite of the resources spent on educational integration, a quarter of Roma pupils finish school by leaving the labour market without obtaining a profession or a diploma. This means thousands of new people, one way or another, to be supported by net contributors to society each year. I've quoted it before, but it's a perfect fit, so I'll do it now: the social rest of the near future depends on the proper socialization, catching up, proper education and education of children with disadvantages and problems. So the real problem is here, and if we consider that the number of gypsy students has doubled in 20 years, then we really need to do something as soon as possible. There are positive examples, my fellow members of the governing party, such as supporting the acquisition of the second profession, but this is not enough, because you can see the overloaded and frustrated teachers of trainers most affected by all social crisis signs, shamelessly underpaid trainers of the supermen of education and education in Hungary, who will be able to cope with the task anyway, but without increased public attention and additional resources, this will not work. Perhaps I can say on behalf of my colleagues that Sisyfusian work, if the vocational school and, in general, all schools are forced to cope with these difficulties on their own against the retreating family environment and value-destroying media, burdened with a failed education policy. And believe me, we don't like neoliberal economists either, but perhaps we should think about starting a real revolution with a fraction of the unorthodox amount of the MNB's unorthodox economics education, for example, in the world of vocational training. It might even be available for boarding schools. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-220	I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss.
u2016-03-01-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since we've been constantly accused of being behind everything, starting from the Titanic disaster to the murder of Kennedy and the pedagogist parade, let me quote the relevant points of the Civil Education Platform, also to feed a little government paranoia. It's not too late to take your meds. [[Defiance.]] So we're talking about the position of 50 NGOs belonging to the Civil Education Platform. What do they want? , 1. Postpone the changes to graduation2. Any changes planned by the government in the secondary vocational training system should be immediately suspended. Give everyone the opportunity to acquire secondary education3. The student burden must be reduced!4. In order to ensure fair and effective care for children who require special treatment, immediate and remedial measures are needed5. The government should take immediate action to reduce the growing segregation of Roma pupils, to effectively ban all forms of discrimination6. We demand the actual freedom of choice of textbooks7. The system of teaching career-related qualification and pedagogical-professional control shall be immediately suspended, with the exception of the completion of ongoing procedures! 8. With immediate effect, create a legislative framework for the further employment of pensioners. Stop the countdown! You know the numbers, I think you can do it over ten. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] , 9. The number of hours required for teachers must be recorded in 22 hours, and the extra time worked must be cancelled 10. We demand the guarantee of the most basic sources of education funding11. We expect honest and public communication about education! That's what you're clearly not capable of. [[20.50]] 12. The establishment of a system of public education based on new foundations, building on the results achieved, must begin immediately! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] This is the future, that's what you have to do. But let's not be accused that we don't like to deal with recent events, although for you the last six or eight years - as someone has said - or the last six and eight years, this is the recent and the worst figures of modern education, as if the new times were now, but let's leave the correct knowledge of historical concepts, since this is obviously not typical of you. Let me tell you, a persecuted man, the III. The example of a district government, this is a Fidesz municipality, so obviously it can be very bad with you, and I'm sure that's why you're not able to communicate with it anyway. Well, the Metropolitan Educational Service III. This is about the anomaly of your district site - it was a very excellent pedagogical workshop, by the way, until you nationalized it. Early development has been virtually non-existent in the pedagogical services since October, because the institution is not able to perform the basic tasks. The day-to-day provision of tasks is completely unclear, and we haven't been able to agree on the operation since you have this institution, so we're saying it's not now - is it? The heating can be turned off at any time, this did not happen because the head of the institution begged the service provider not to do so, but the garbage delivery did not happen, so fortunately, it had already been stopped. This may well be the case, by the way. In the pedagogical service of the district, educators take it home, or wherever they know, the garbage, I don't think the people involved think it's that funny. Similarly, the Internet has been turned off, but obviously for a specialist service why the Internet, there is no need for that. There's no paper, there's no basic tools. Of course, this is not unusual, as there are several counties where the home computers and laptops of teachers have been compiled, because obviously those teachers will not get the laptops necessary for the work - the travelers are the teachers - because they have them, so bring them in as if it were completely natural that the employer would not provide the worker with the tools for the work. Of course, these signals were transmitted by both the head of the specialist service and the district's management to the KLIK, so they are constantly, and the KLIK is pushing responsibility to the district, which is also funny because - once again - it is a state institution, a nationalized institution. The position of the district government on this issue, and this is a completely public view that the government has taken away the task in its entirety and the resources needed for it, but, moreover, until the previous academic year, everything was paid by the III. district government, therefore, despite the fact that you disarmed the institution and otherwise did not pay anything from here on out, And yet the district approved. When Annex III is amended as follows: district educational institutions indicated the problems, then both the management of the pedagogical professional service provider and the municipality turned to the head of the Metropolitan Pedagogical Services, who indicated that he was not competent, then turned to KLIK, who indicated that he was not competent, then turned to Mrs Czunyi, who indicated that he was not competent and even fired. After that, the municipality was no longer able to do anything, and it reacted by hiring from January five employees from their own sources to attend kindergartens, which is not his job. And this is a Fidesz-led municipality, a metropolitan government, my constituency, the Calvary of the Óbuda municipality. What about people who aren't even kissing you that much? Finally, I must say that I am very pleased that my fellow Member Ander quoted Nahalka as my former excellent teacher, and I think it would be very good for you, too, if you read from him, that it does not seem to be in any way harmful to them. I wish you would do this as soon as possible, you might see the world differently. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-01-222	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2016-03-01-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here in the runaway debate, I felt that I should speak up, and not speak politically, as you have, but to draw your attention to a real problem, a problem that I have also brought to the EMMI, I think the Secretary of State has already met him, and a problem that has not existed today, but for more than a year: in my district, Halimbán, in a small village school, the condition of the gym has been a problem for more than a year and a half. You are right, and I feel that it was also their duty that children should be the main aspect of physical education and health education for each government, but in order to achieve this, conditions must be created. The municipality of Halimba has given the operation to KLIK, and the condition of the gym is so outdated and so bad that the specialist at the school has no longer issued permission for physical education or physical education. If I may, I would like to read to you this specialist opinion, which has been delivered to me, and which the Secretary of State has already received: In the past and this year's academic year, in the gymnasium of Dr. Miklós Szalai Primary School, physical education, as well as the holding of physical education classes, is a serious health hazard for our students as well as for our physical education teachers. The floor of the gym, the parquet is bad, dusty, under the parquet is rotten, musty, moldy, rotten, old tree. During physical education hours, mold and dust are raised in relation to movement, walking, running, throwing, and thus the effects of the pulverized, moldy, stifling, asphyxiation are increased. During the course of physical education, children's drowning, difficulty breathing, and shortness of breath are already experiencing a low load. After physical education, our children also complain of headaches. Unfortunately, because of the above, I was unable to make a professional proposal for medical education in this academic year. The floor of the gym is not suitable for medical education either. This school, this school, has 140 students and 30 kindergarten students. I ask you: what is this health education, what is this advance, if a renovation costing about 2.5 million HUF already solves this problem? And once again, it's not new, it's been there for a year, the faculty has already notified the KLIK. You have received no written reply from the organization you have defended throughout today. And that was one example from my district, many of which could be read. There is only one problem: you say that you are raising health. Is that a health education? To get more asthma kids out? You can laugh at that, Mr. Vice President, but the voters know and see this. And this speech is not addressed to you, but to the people in my district - and you must remember it well. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-01-224	I give the floor to Congressman István Hiller.
u2016-03-01-225	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Indeed, after more than six to seven hours that we have started the debate, it is worth considering what can be extracted from this series of good Parliamentary speeches for a few hours. I propose that we try this in the next few minutes, to see what is politically possible in this debate, to see what positions are fixed, and to look at what can be done professionally, where I see a willingness to compromise, where I see issues in which the difference of opinion continues, then we will obviously be able to overcome this. I do not think that it will be decided now, nor am I sure that in the next year and a half, but I feel that this is an area that, in two years' time, if the elections are then, will be a significant conflict between us, we will certainly mention this multi-hour match at the time. Therefore, not in style, but in content, please allow me to be a little harsher than I used to be, just because it is worth leading things up. First of all, in the midst of great vows, you say that we are, in fact, in the same opinion, at the same point, which happens to be the child at the centre of public education, and that is what you say. [[21.00]] But, honourable MPs, that is simply not true. This was between you, not between the opposition after 2010 and the ruling party, but between you was a fairly significant internal battle. Those who won implemented the KLIK system, who then remained in a minority, you or not only pushed them into a minority, but also pushed some of them out of the education policy, from the parliament. There are the parliamentary records. This was a hit-and-run between you guys. Anyone who said that he was on the child's side - to look at the minutes of committee meetings - are not here today. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So this was a political struggle, and that was the result. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Then show me where he is. The second was that six years after their government, in fact, most of their speeches were about what it was like between 2002 and 2010. I have to tell you honestly, when we were steering, in the sixth year, I didn't think of you. [[Márius Révész: You talked about Orbán all the time!]] In particular, I did not care what they had done before, but one thing from time to time, the János Arany programme that we have carried on, and that is correct, and I ask you not to be offended, because I do not mean it as a personal insult, Mr Happy Member, but to this day I have not thought of anything about you in one world. I saw you sitting here, but, please, I'm telling you again that you shouldn't take it personally, I saw a congressman that looked like you, and I knew there was a congressman named Happy, but the two didn't work out this far. Now, that was a historical speech, no doubt, I read these kind of speeches when I was a historian, 1951. They still believed in him, and I don't think you're accusing me, you just believe what you're saying. That's why I'm forced to confront the facts, not to make you believe it, because anyone who believes so deeply in their own lies cannot be removed from this. In 2002 there were 6021 school-service places in Hungary, in 2010 there were 5923, 98 fewer - you can say hundreds, thousands, all the same - 98; you can say 300-something, not so. Unfortunately, this trend continued after 2010. In 2010, 5923 jobs were taken over, and by the end of 2012, this was only 5892; the fact is that 31 schools were closed in two years with locks, and this trend went on to accelerate. [[Németh Szilárd István: This is not so!]] So here's the thing: from the statistical yearbook, I want you to look at this, these are the facts. Here's the thing. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Did Habony write anything else for you?]] We have renovated 374 schools with EU money, which was the national school renovation programme. Ninety-eight of these were handed over to 2010 until the change of government. I was at a school transfer where the MTI correspondent went to the mayor because he didn't understand, couldn't report about it, because the mayor said their speech on the country in Romok, and because we handed over a school that we rebuilt, the MTI correspondent didn't get a chance to tell him about the combined image of the country and the renovated school in Romok. 276 schools have been renovated, many of which were handed over by Secretary of State Hoffmann in the framework of the national school renovation programme, which you have not carried out in a rather shameful manner. The thing is, we fought this program in Brussels, we got the money, four-fifths of the renovated schools were handed over by you. It's real. Then we must add that we look at the political part of this, in which you claim that the trade unions, the pedagogical society, the parents are protesting our encouragement against you, and that we are behind the organisation of the trade unions. I also think that, if I may ask, the more often you should say this, preferably not only within the walls of Parliament, help me a little bit, on TV, on radio, and even on your own party forums, so that you can say this again. In any case, we will be asking for this report, and we will say so. The fact is, however, that you are now in a worse situation. I would very much like to think about how, in fact, in a month's time, a national movement became a national movement, without any background organization, from a letter from a teaching board, a school in Miskolc. If I were you, I wouldn't necessarily be doing this on a faction level, in their internal analysis circles. How is it that from an innocent-looking, former secretary of state interview where the former secretary of state actually wants something gag, and says that they're square-selling, that in a few weeks they'll be fashionable in Hungary? That hundreds and thousands of young people not only wear it, but take pictures, post it on Facebook, give it to each other by people who may never have seen each other in life? How is it that - because there are student Olympics, by the way - one of the student Olympics, a few days after his award, tells you not to use him for party policy purposes and joins 101 student Olympics in four hours? In this you can see the instigating power of the opposition, the MSZP, but if it doesn't have that in it, you should think, "Are you sure that the system that you are doing in public education is good?" And then let's look at the professional part of it. I believe that everyone who has been involved in public education, at least superficially, agrees that not now, not at the time of your governance, but should take hold, and not from 2002 onwards, the most important problem of public education in Hungary is the so-called socioeconomic background, or the social regional differences that the school cannot balance. And you, according to any experience and policy I've assumed, say that full nationalization is the best way to do that, that's what KLIK was created for, and then after three years of proving that there are very big problems here, you're saying that the reform of this is going to solve it. I don't believe that. I think that this decentralisation that you're planning is simply called the county level, which creates 19 small CLIKs rather than the whole mentality. I would suggest to you, please consider our proposal that yes, the municipalities that want and can maintain their schools should be institutional supporters, but, in order to avoid any confusion, I do consider it necessary to maintain the role of the state as an institution-sustainer, and in settlements that, rather, are typically small settlements and disadvantaged regions, the state should continue to be institutional supporters. I think further that you believe what you are saying, that the quality of public education here between 2002 and 2010 has deteriorated. [[Németh Szilárd István: We don't say it.]] It's safe to say it doesn't bother me, but I'm forced to read the report of a member of the PISA board, which he wrote to the country, not to a government. The most important result for us is that we can report significant developments for the first time in the history of PISA measurements. A few years ago, another international measurement indicated an improvement in the understanding of the reading text of the younger age group. Now that the generation has reached the PISA era, the PISA text understanding study based on other principles confirms that it is indeed a significant positive change. This is the country's official PISA report. [[21.10]] After that, feel free to say what you want, because it happens to be the data compared from the 2002 PISA report by 2003, it is true that in 2012 PISA showed a worse result than in 2002, but this was not achieved by continuously deteriorating from 2002 to 2009, but improved from 2002 to 2009, and fell from 2009, mainly in the last two years. That's the fact, and that's how it came out. So I have to tell you that you can do whatever you want with the KLIK. I believe that there is a strong need to consider redefining the institutional sustainability of the municipalities. Politically, I would like the elections of 2018 to be lost. So it's not an accusation to me that I'm trying to make you fail. Well, among other things, I'm working to make sure that this whole system they're doing is over. It would be a big problem if I didn't try to do that as an oppositionist. I think what they're doing is wrong, it's bad for the country, and more and more people see it. And you don't see it that way. At the same time, I feel - but that is also your job - that what is going on in education, when parents think that their children are not being sent to school... do not think they are worse patriots than you are. The child doesn't belong to the state, not the government, not the parliamentary majority. Parents and children are one family. This, please, is nothing but a protest against you. No, the kid doesn't want to go to school. The parent objects to the system you have built. I think that what is in education will come together, what is in health care, what is in transport, what is in the case of the referendum that has been prevented, protesters all over the country who, to be honest, did not even know until now that we were initiating a referendum. But what they did with your help reminded many, many, many tens of thousands of people of what we wanted. So this is education, so this is a political issue, and in this House we are talking about it, and I think it should be done with such an uppercut. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-226	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. I see a two-minute screen. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. István Szilárd Németh: I give it to you!]] I'll give you the floor if Fidesz [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] He'll give you the opportunity in two minutes. [[For signal:]] He gave it to me. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Hand over in writing according to the house rules! It should be in writing, Mr. President. István Szilárd Németh: I'll sign it! That's how you guys work.]]
u2016-03-01-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With that calling word, I would like the last speech, at least from us, to begin, which has gone on throughout this afternoon, and this is the protection of children, in connection with how to politicalize or not to politicalize in school. First of all, I would like to remove the delusion that the word "policy" or political subject could not be mentioned at school. This is a mistake, because the child asks, the younger he is, the more he hides the Internet and watches television, the more questions he has. A teacher can't do that without answering his question. What is clearly forbidden is direct party politics, or the child's direction in some direction. Kids love a teacher's honest answer. What I would be very protective of the children, however, is the principal's circulars - because they were like that - when the student council was specifically urged by the principal not to go to school or go to the protest. It's forbidden, too, because this is politics that involves interfering with the children's personal sphere. Now, at the end of this day, I would like to ask all, especially teachers and teachers in schools, with respect that if they have met a phenomenon after yesterday that children have started to quarrel, argue, or be rude to each other about who was in school on Monday and who hasn't, they should disarm this with all their artistic pedagogies, because this is already a direct politics that would harm children, and it is unfortunate to turn class communities against them, do not God, turn the child against the parent. Let's keep the peace at school, keep the school for the kids. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-228	Thank you very much. There's still a two-minute window for Fidesz. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh.
u2016-03-01-229	Thank you very much. I agree with Minister István Hiller that we are no farther than we were at quarter to one when we started the debate. However, I must reject what you have memorized about István Happy. The congressman was elected mayor of a small settlement five times. Although I know that small settlements weren't very fond of 2002-2010, he was talking about what his school had to experience as a town manager during this period. There's a problem with numbers. There are more than 10,000 places of supply in Hungarian public education; therefore there are not five thousand. And that thirty-some of the supply places you spoke of, Minister, during that period, in 2011-12, there was a maintenance change, so these institutions were transferred to the church. [[Dr. István Hiller: No!]] We also agree that the next two years will determine what is happening in the field of public education, and this will, of course, have a significant impact on the parliamentary elections in 2018. However, Fidesz-KDNP and the government do not have this in mind, because the point of public education is not that there is an election every four years, but that we need to build a long-term, stable, reliable system, and we believe that children should be at the heart of Hungarian public education and public education. The point is that the children will come out of school with useful knowledge, the point is that parents can keep these children safe at school, the point is that those who are responsible for the children at school, the teachers, the teachers, the teachers, the teachers, they should be properly respected, they should be able to have a career that will always ensure that they can handle our children properly. That is why we are working, which is why we have also taken up today's debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-230	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. We have reached the end of the speeches. I give the floor to Mr. László Palkovics, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. You have a 20-minute time frame. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The KLIK will cease tomorrow.]]
u2016-03-01-231	It won't stop tomorrow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Guests! Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen. This was a very instructive and long discussion, compared to the discussions in the Higher Education Act, I think that Parliament's saturation is significantly greater. This also shows that our guests have endured, this is a very important thing. In their direction, I would just like to say that what we were talking about here is part of it, if we separate the political issues that are also completely legitimate here, a series of professional matters have been said. Someone here said the government lives in a shell and doesn't understand what's happening in the world around it. I think that this is a little difficult to interpret, because in today's debate, what has been said here, there was not one of those new elements that I should have noted. [[21.20]] This is, of course, the reason why, over the past period, virtually all indications, starting from the 25 points of the pedagogical union, from the gathering of opinions carried out by the KLIK, asking more than two thousand institutions, up to what Mr. I believe that a system as large as education, the transformation of this will inevitably require a continuous review. Someone here said that the Ministry's own research facility, OFI, also said that. Yes, it is absolutely natural, OFI does not operate independently of the Ministry, it is a research institute whose assignments are given by us, and indeed, the system is constantly being reviewed and reviewed. The fact that we just got here has a lot of reasons. One of the reasons is that when we created the Public Education Act, we set out to review the content of this, the way it works, a lot of things. That's what these working groups are for. I would go through very quickly what kind of activity is happening right now, just to see the complexity of it. Unfortunately, the 18 minutes available may no longer be sufficient, so I would like to highlight only certain issues. The round table is active in six areas. The first is the Working Group on Content Development. This is the task force whose work was questioned here. I would like to say that this task force is managed by the chairman of the Presidential Public Education Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and, by the way, I think that in Hungary, who understands the field of public education, the field of education as a scientist, all appear in this. So to question this activity, I think it may be a pity, and it may not be so professionally well founded. It is certain that what this task force has set as a goal is what we have talked about here, how lexical knowledge is used, how it should be developed into skills, skills, how to find a balance between these two, what is the child-centred curriculum at all, as opposed to the knowledge or employment school or school-centred curriculum. I suggest to everyone who hasn't been involved in this, by the way, because this is a direction that, I think, is quite decisive. This will lead to - if we define our goals - what the national basic curriculum means; what the framework curricula mean; what local curricula mean; what it means to manage transitions, kindergarten school, secondary school, secondary school; what those development methods mean, how we can teach children with different abilities in a class. So these are the cases I think we need to talk about. We've just come this far, and that's what the next period will be about. The second task force is the teaching team. What belongs here is actually everything that happens to the educator in his life. This task force is headed by the Vice-President of the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, who is also a teacher, the rector of the Eszterházy College - soon to be a university. But everyone is also involved in this, all 14 of our educational institutions are involved in this work. This is about somehow forgetting how to bring universities closer to schools. Today, the relationship is relatively loose, so much so that, for example, universities participate very little in the system of further education, unlike 900 companies that deal with this type of issue, education research and further training. Speaking to the teachers who are involved in the working groups, well, the content of these is rather dubious, so clearly we would like universities to be close to schools, kindergartens, and there would be a kind of relationship, because teachers graduated there, they were done there, and I think they're bound by a strong emotional thread, and the university, and it's important to have some other thread attached to teachers. We are talking about a lot of things: further training, participation in the rating system, the type of methodological support that we do not solve now or in another form. Our most important working group does not come as a third party because this is not what I consider to be the most important; this is the working group on the course of children and students. There is a lot of things here, the questions that have been raised from any of the previously mentioned directions, or even this afternoon, have been substantially extended. There are a lot of teachers, a lot of teachers working on this task force. I would like to mention some of the issues, just to understand the tasks that this task force is facing and, by the way, it is active on an ongoing basis. Such cases include the need to acquire useful knowledge; emotionally developing learning experiences; creating a learning and knowledge-centred atmosphere; including hours, reflection of content, how we think of this; including issues related to the obligation to teach. This is where it was said to raise it immediately for 18 years. In this, the educator society is quite divided, who are involved here, they do not see it that way, on the contrary. Of course, these include analyses, and there is a great deal to be done in order to be able to appreciate these statements. This includes the measurements that we are not doing right now, although we are doing competence measurements, but we are not regulating these competence measurements, there is no feedback. What we introduce in higher education institutions from September this year, both input and outcome, we measure the competence of students - not their knowledge, because there is another system, their competences - two things can be derived from this: where is support, help, and what has the school added to the student's skills? I would just like to say a few points very briefly. Equal opportunities is a very serious area that the working group is dealing with, so much so that a member of the anti-segregation round table has been invited to the round table. There are a lot of things here, about equalising the chance through school, how to involve representatives of the civil sector. So these are questions that have not been raised elsewhere. The reason why this type of operation is good is where a lot of people meet, and everyone feels responsible for the particular area, is because these questions come up one after the other, which, by the way, in the transformation of such a system, I think are completely legitimate, and that they have come out and that they have just come out, it's totally fine. It is a matter of talent management - a separate group is dealing with this. These include the study competitions, including special programmes such as the János Arany programme, the financing of which has been provided in this 38 billion. So these programs also go on. The next task force is the pedagogical employment task force. It's one of the most critical, so maybe this is where we need the quickest interventions. First, the restructuring or recasting of the rating system. I think to question that in a society, in an environment where we live, that everyone has to meet some requirements, I don't think anyone is questioning it. The fact that a system has been created that, at certain times, creates some kind of conditions and we meet these conditions, I think that is also okay. That this should not, of course, cause unnecessary burdens or cause unnecessary irritation under the transient, and that is a task that we need to solve. The Minister may have missed it a little too quickly in his speech, but according to the proposals of the Round Table, he said here that, for example, in the case of teachers seven years before retirement, the teacher II. We're not qualifying for a degree, simply because we think it's a transient case, so it's a matter that we have to do. The same is true in order to avoid the qualification of teachers already in the system. It also belongs here - the amendment has just been published - that it is not necessary for everyone to be able to qualify until 2018, so that they have to apply for certification. So a series of cases came up right after the work of the round table, which was decided by the round table, and by the way, the minister vowed to do so, because that is his nature. It is a very important element, and here the questions of reservation have been mentioned by many, the state maintenance organisation KLIK. I do not want to discuss the advantages and necessity of this, but rather I would like to say a few words about the need to have a maintainer, I think, to be acceptable to everyone. To eliminate the KLIK is a statement with which there is little to do, since the maintenance function must be performed by someone. [[Zoltán Gőgös: You have to get used to it, Mr. Secretary of State.]] As for the operation of the CLIK, this organization can be operated. So what we have formulated, and also one of the results of the round table, until July of this year, we will ensure the operation of the KLIK. I think that is not even a question, so if the government could do the 1,300 billion forint consolidation in 2013, we are talking about a few ten billion forints that we cannot ensure these. What we announced last week was yesterday - yesterday was Monday - HUF 38 billion was published in the KLIK account, which is necessary to partially consolidate debt and partly ensure its operation. This is the first year of the KLIK, when the KLIK does not undergo a very big change, at least in terms of its content, the vocational training institutions will not get out, no ecclesiastical institutions will get out. So now it's exactly possible to plan a budget. [[21.30]] Of course, the KLIK's ability to operate optimally in this structure is another issue, which is what we are discussing now, how to make this transformation work. How many small KLIKs or how many maintainers and how many KLIK names I would like to move away from now, so how many maintainers are created and in what form it works, and there is a series of solutions to that; so it is not just what the Member mentioned that then twenty regional maintainers will be, because the operation of this system is much more complex in terms of its functions. So there's a lot to consider. Two elements are certain that decisions about schools should be brought close to the school. So you mustn't stay too far away. This inevitably means a kind of decentralisation. What this decentralisation will be like, and we're working on it now to appreciate it. In this there are elements that have experienced so far, and there are elements that simply need to be counted. It's not a devil thing. During my corporate life, I've seen even more complicated and less complicated organizations. I think we have a good solution to that. It's another very important element, and that's pretty much what I'm sure, the rest of it will develop, so that schools, where they can do that, and the school principal can take over, but the kind of responsibility he feels for his school needs to be strengthened. For example, in such a way as to give back the rights of framework management to school directors, so it should have an impact. Of course, that raises a lot of questions. There are romantic memories of the good running of the local government here, but if you look at the school where most of the criticisms come from, it's from the schools that are state-owned, but run by the local government. In addition, criticisms come to a lesser extent from purely state-run schools. Of course, there is a reason for this, and we failed to carry out the task that we set out in 2013 to agree on the differences between operation and maintenance. There's practically everything here. Herman Ottó High School, as I said: I went there, there is a large part of the cases coming from this double maintenance and separate operation, but there is also a solution to them. There are many ways to do this, we have to talk about it, we have to figure it out, and otherwise it can work just as well as it used to, we all have to find our own interests in this. These are the two cases that are important. It's very important that the school principal really feels like a principal. I don't think it's any different today. Sounds good to me that we've taken away the employer's rights from the director. The people I've met before, the general high school principals, everyone in their own school was in charge, so it's not that bad. Nevertheless, there are cases in which the school principal really needs to be better able to position himself, for example, in certain elements of the rating system, such as in the evaluation of the period between ratings. There are solutions in this, which have been partly proposed by others, by trade union, and partly by the round table, a series of proposals have been made. I think this is the other very important element. We would like to launch this system from 1 July, with schools operating accordingly from 1 September. Obviously this is a question of faith, and I think that this system can be operated otherwise, if we build this up to see what the tasks are, what processes belong to this task, what kind of organization, what mode of operation belongs to the processes, and then, of course, at the end of the day, the cost of this, and you have to say that. I can't do this without getting over it. As I was saying, it's the first year of the KLIK or the maintainer, when, by the way, there's no big internal change. I think my time may have been over... [[Zoltán Grimlock: It can be until morning...]]
u2016-03-01-232	You have 20 minutes, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-01-233	Yeah, it's perfect, that's all there is. I think these are the cases that are going on right now, but we're counting on everyone. I think that what I was talking about here, or what I've been talking about lately, is all the questions that, if the interest is in common and if the goal is in common, it can be solved. I would protect us from one thing, all of us, that an opportunity that is now, so this kind of, in part, media attention and, in part, this type of social support is the issue of education - I thought about when it was 1990 - it didn't get it. It's an opportunity, not a problem. What's happening now, I think, is to be treated as an opportunity. If we agree that this is a common cause, then now is the moment when we can solve these. And we have to talk about it, so I think we have to really separate in our heads what is the content and what is the other part, whether political or representative. So I would just like to say that in discussing this, the structure of the round table is absolutely open. It's open in the sense that anyone can join him. I cannot imagine more interested people who would otherwise have something to add to the issue of Hungarian public education than who might otherwise appear on the round table. So I would like to ask everyone to take part in this and see how we will be able to complete this task together. So thank you very much for your attention, and thank you to our guests for holding on so long. I thought this was gonna take until 1:00 in the morning, but we're done early, so thank you again. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-01-234	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Palkovics. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Some have withdrawn their opposition. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a post-meeting speech. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] He took it back. Thank you very much. Congressman Mihály Witzmann, I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. But, Congressman, just a moment. [[It's ringing.]] Congressmen and ladies, I respectfully ask you to continue your conversation in the hallway. Mr Mihály Witzmann Fideszes applied for another record year in tourism. You'll have the floor in five minutes, Congressman.
u2016-03-01-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is safe to say that tourism is one of the success sectors of the Hungarian economy, since in recent years new records have been broken in the tourism sector. Since 2011, we can now say year after year that the sector is expanding, and domestic tourism has a crucial role to play in this. On the basis of the figures for 2015 it can now be said that the expectations of industry and government have been clearly confirmed, as tourism closed another outstanding year in 2015. The number of guests increased significantly to around 10 million 350 thousand, which means that there have never been so many visitors in Hungary. Accommodations in tourism have also achieved record revenues. Their total turnover was approximately HUF 368 billion last year, and in 2015 the hotels recorded a total of 25 million 765 thousand guest nights, which, by the way, is 5.4 percent higher than the previous year's 2014 data. On the basis of the data published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, it can now be concluded that the sector had succeeded in overachieving in 2015 the threefold objective set by the Ministry of National Economy in its preliminary objectives for tourism. This was to reach 10 million guests in 2015, 25 million for guest nights, and 360 billion forints for hotels. The expansion of the sector is well demonstrated by the fact that the share of tourism in gross domestic product rose from around 7 per cent a few years ago to nearly 10 per cent. We also know, of course, that tourism's role in GDP can be further enhanced, as the potential for expansion remains in the sector. I am also pleased to see that with the establishment of the planned tourism agency, the government's intention remains to support growth with further positive measures. The SZÉP Card programme contributes to the success of the sector, which has had a positive impact on domestic demand already in previous years. The positive trend did not change in 2015 either, as it is clear that employers uploaded HUF 90.5 billion to around 1.2 million SZÉP cards, which is 20 percent higher than in 2014. In addition to the success of the SZÉP card, the various government measures to improve the financial situation of Hungarian families, the declining key, the reduction of the rent, the introduction of foreign currency loans or even the family tax reduction, have also had a positive impact on domestic demand, as the possibility of vacation and recreation became increasingly available to Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also happy to report that, among the three most popular settlements in the last year, Siófok, the seat of my constituency continues to hold a stable second place, since after Budapest, most of the guests visited Siófok, the capital of the summer in 2015. And as a Balaton man, it is also a pleasure for me to see the names of more and more Balaton settlements appearing in the top 10 ranking. Among other things, Zamárdi is becoming increasingly known for his international festivals. I would like to point out that, given the number of guest nights in Siófok, we have managed to pass the long-awaited one million-dollar level. In 2015, the city actually made a record in this area, as about 1 million 11 000 people were resting in the accommodations, and the crossing of the million-dollar data was already noticeable in November. [[21.40]] In the case of Siófok, it was also welcome that the increase in tourist tax revenues was able to exceed even the increase in traffic of about 5%, since the city's incomes for the Kurtaxa increased by 6.2 percent compared to the previous year. It is also clear that travels are now timed several times by those who come to Lake Balaton for the prestigious events that have played an important role in the development of the Balaton image in recent years. I also think it is extremely forward-looking that the actors of tourism in Balaton strive year after year to do everything to make sure that the lake and its area are not defined as a place of summer recreation only. A good example of this is the so-called "Open Balaton" series organized by the Balaton Tourism Association, which aims not only to extend the season, but also to create new seasons, spring and autumn seasons. Fortunately, there is also a growing number of really high quality catering places at Lake Balaton, and we cannot miss out on wineries which also play a major role in defining Balaton identity, making it increasingly attractive again. All in all, we can say that after 2015 we have every reason to be confident about the year 2016 either in terms of national expectations or in terms of Balaton expectations. According to the experts' forecasts, further expansion of domestic tourism is expected, since given the data of some accommodation intermediaries in Balaton, it is already known that there has never been such a large amount of domestic pre-booking for the months of July and August. Further growth in tourism is not only expected but also desirable, as expansion can create new jobs and the development of the sector can also significantly increase opportunities for domestic businesses. For this reason, I would like to ask the Government of Hungary with respect for the support of the sector which is of great importance for the national economy, as has been the case so far. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-03-01-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr also spoke after the agenda, Mr President, with the title "Communication." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-03-01-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State László Palkovics missed twenty seconds to stay here and perhaps even to answer. But I didn't expect that to happen. In that sense, I would only like to draw conclusions at the end of the day. It is an eight-hour debate on public education and public education, and the very simple and very focused filter of this debate is, in fact, that the State Secretary himself is unable to face the events of the last six years. He couldn't or wouldn't face it, because in his nearly twenty-minute summary he couldn't give answers on substantive matters, but, on an evasive surface, he tried to talk about the operation of the round table. Well, there wouldn't be a square table if there weren't certain force forces in a good sense that would get this government to do it. What I see as the biggest problem is that in the course of recent years, I have considered that in the system of education, the mechanism of reconciliation of interests, which could have been a true reflection of the mistakes, the contradictions that are constantly flashing or present, and in a virtually preventive way, the possibility of prevention, of forwarding. This has been crushed by you on the government side, and in this sense, the emergency channels that could have protected you from being put in a position where you have to bow your head in a way that enforces you in a good sense. This is happening today, they are now trying to choose the lesser evil, to see if there is one more follow-up, and let's run after it and see if society will forgive us, in that sphere, in the system of education, where there has been a lot of suffering in recent years, and then say that there are still some changes. Look, I wish there were some changes, but I would also say don't believe that these shots will bring you a lot of political results. But I wouldn't go on with this part of it, but rather by asking you, although there aren't too many of you here from the government side, if I count, then one, perhaps hiding behind the presidential pulpit, might be able to discover another representative. [[Attila Móring József: President Meg!]] And, of course, Mr President, I could not forget - thank you very much - they can be good interpreters of this story, and I would like to ask that there should be. In this country, it is not a big 93,000 square kilometres, but there are huge differences, huge regional, but not only regional, but also small scale, even in the sense of walking. These differences would be necessary and certainly appropriate to change in such a way that they are naturally in the interest of students studying within educational institutions, and also give teachers the opportunity and opportunity to create a situation where students can benefit from the output of the outcome. Because this is the only way to ensure that, in the longer term, employment policy contradictions do not make the country's situation more difficult than they have seen in the last six years. I'm not saying there weren't any problems before, but I'm saying that they've grown stronger in the last six years. And if this is the way they want to go, naturally, not only teachers, but, as I have already mentioned today, changes must also be made in the life situation of colleagues working alongside teachers, providing technical backgrounds, and in a positive direction. These are basically wage-type pay questions, because, as I say from 47,000 forints, with a calm spirit, it is also not easy to make a living from 74,000 forints. In this, I would like your good service activities to the remaining pro-government politicians, Mr. President, separately. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-01-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. I bid you a restful good night, and the sitting day is closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:48 p.m.]]
