u2016-02-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, notary Adam Mirkóczki and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. When will the government finally take note of the increasingly serious health crisis? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-1	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Hungarian health crisis is now being ignored only by the government. The problems are also faced daily by institutional leaders, health workers, patients and ordinary newspaper readers. Every day they show up about news-breaking doctors, collapsing departments, and the increasing number of emigrating health workers, but the government still pretends that everything is okay, and that health care is going through rapid development. The growing health crisis is mainly due to the government's only two objectives in the last five years: to maintain the appearance of working ability and to withdraw as much money as possible from the area. There has never been a real health program and concept, just survival and sweeping problems under the rug. The government has promised to raise wages for many times, and it's fooling healthcare workers for many times. The general, universal basic wage increase, which can at least slow emigration, is still waiting for you. So far, only a small group of health workers have received a salary supplement, a bonus, a scholarship, but these additional actions only support the government's failure to solve the problems of health care, and it also creates wage tension to attract the players to each other. In our view, salaries are needed for which it is worth working in domestic health care, which requires at least 50 percent increase in basic wages. But you don't seem to notice that thousands of doctors decide to emigration. This year, they stayed on the promise and the scam. In early February, it was discovered that the higher salary promised to specialists and nurses from this year was not received, even though they are playing a very dangerous game, because after a while no one will believe your new promise, and then they will not be able to stop emigration with all the money in the world. With low pay, the government keeps the gratuity money alive, which makes the whole system unfair and creates unacceptable differences in the quality of care. Moreover, if the government were really interested in supporting families and childbearing, it would not allow giving birth to a serious hundreds of thousands of people, of course, beyond the paid contribution. The government has also used hospital debt settlement as a campaign tool for the past five years. They proudly advertise everywhere that they spent 60 billion forints on health care, but they do not talk about the continued debt of 42 billion forints to the institutions, and they did nothing to prevent this debt from regenerating. However, it is not likely that the government's purpose is to maintain the lack of resources, so that hospitals, like the municipalities, are subject to the government's central goodwill. If you really want to solve the financing of hospitals, you should not blame the heads of institutions, but provide sufficient resources for the operation. If the government still refuses to acknowledge that the Hungarian health system is in crisis, then it is worth looking at the objective data measuring the performance of the system. On this basis, Hungary is one of the weakest healthcare systems in the EU. To give you just one piece of data, Hungary has a significantly higher chance of dying of a cancer than in any other country in the Union. At home, only 43 percent of diagnosed patients survive, 51 percent in Slovakia, 55 percent in the Czech Republic and 60 percent in several countries. However, Hungarian doctors are among the best qualified, and health workers do extrahuman work despite humiliatingly low wages and unworthy working conditions. Disappointing data are mainly due to underfunded healthcare systems. The LMP expects the government to admit that the time for persuasion and sweeping problems under the carpet is over in Hungarian health care. We need real action, not an exchange of State Secretary. To do so, we need to spend more money on health care, significantly increase the wages of workers, tackle the growing shortage of staff and increase the resources of the institutions. There would be funding for this in the Hungarian budget, but you simply want to save on the health of the Hungarian people.
u2016-02-16-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If your claim were true, which, of course, is not true in this case, that the government would not notice these problems, then why would it have taken a series of measures over the last five years to deliver some sort of solution to these problems to patients, doctors, health care. You say that there are major problems in certain areas, let's say you mention the medical emigration, which, we know, is no longer a matter of years, perhaps decades, or at least a decade. But what would you say if we didn't have a 2 percent emigration or foreign employment rate in Hungary than we do now, but, say, 6 percent in Poland or 10 percent in Romania, what would you say there? This is a phenomenon that applies to the entire Central European region, to everyone who joined the European Union in or after the 2000s, this trend of migration is common. At the same time, Hungary has tried to change the basics of this material or hospital operation in the field of doctors and nurses, whether by scholarship or otherwise, so that doctors do not want to emigrate. You know that, honourable Member, you are only silent when you say that the proportion of doctors who request permission to work abroad in Hungary has now fallen. And if we take off the number of people who come to Hungary as foreigners to get a medical degree here, get a medical degree here, and look only at those who ask for a first permit, ask for a Hungarian citizen, and are not visiting abroad and go back to studying abroad, then we see that during our five-year government, compared to the peak date, the proportion of Hungarian students who are now half as Hungarian citizens who apply for a permit to work abroad at the medical university is now compared to the 2010-11 date. Nurses had a slightly later peak in foreign work permits, sometime around 2012-13, and since then the number of people asking for permission to work abroad has decreased. This is not happening on its own, it is not spontaneously happening that the number of these is decreasing, but we trust that the measures that this government has taken have contributed. The first thing that had to be stopped immediately in 2010 was the privatization wave or the privatization spirit that wanted to raisin the profit-making parts of health care out of the health system. We remember HospInvest or we remember suppliers, subcontractors, who tried to make a deal out of health care, fortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP government was able to prevent this, and it was even able to reverse it so that it was not the private capital and not the profit that was taking money out of health care. There have been many of these in the field of diagnostics, and let me refer here - if I have said that word - to your suggestion that cancer patients often have a better chance of healing even in Central European countries, at least the chance of diagnosis being recognised in time than in other Central European countries. If you look at the government's past six-month-a-year measures here, precisely because we have seen them perform better in other countries than we do here, so we said that we will change the system, and in two weeks everyone who has such suspicions will be able to get to the hospital immediately and make a diagnosis, precisely so that if we do better in other countries, we will improve Hungary's performance. Mr President, we can only tell you the problems, and we can tell you what solutions the Fidesz-KDNP government offers each and every one of them, which, of course, will not immediately improve, but either in medical emigration numbers or if you go through rural hospitals five years ago and see what equipment there is, you will see the 104 billion forints built into rural hospitals, for example, in machinery and equipment, and will also help keep doctors, young doctors and older doctors there. [[9.10]] It was also very helpful for rural hospitals to see the HUF 60 billion you underestimated - I repeat: HUF 60 billion - that we were trying to provide for the payment of hospital debts, and we did not just try and provide them with it. We did not say that he was here once, as you say, to cover up the problem and fire-fighting, but then we set up at county level economic committees that deal with the management of hospitals, not at some institutional level, because they cannot solve the problem, but they try to examine capacity at county level, because we need a different approach, because we also want to change the system itself so that this debt does not grow again. You are very good at listing the problems that every patient who went to the hospital knows, whether because he was sick or because he visited his acquaintance. Fidesz-KDNP has also offered solutions in the last five years, and will do the following. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-16-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Symbols of the Crow and the Post Office." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Both magpies and ravens are related birds and both belong to the family of crowes. Although they're related, they're completely different. While we most often remember the word "thief magpie" about the magpie, as these birds prefer to collect shiny objects, various trinkets, while many of us remember the raven as the post office, as we remember the legend when young King Matthias was imprisoned in Prague Castle and sent messages to his mother, Elizabeth Szilágyi, with the help of a raven. This has been in the mail ever since, and for a long time the emblem of Magyar Posta was a raven, a symbol of accuracy and reliability. Well, the raven has been missing from the Hungarian Post logo for some time, replaced by the shiny, breathable trinket, the posthorn. This is much more appropriate for Fidesz theft-based government. Ladies and gentlemen, The last week has been loud with news about the Hungarian Post. Posta's management received a 150-percent salary increase, while postal staff will only benefit from wage development between 1 and 4 per cent in 2016. Zsolt Szarka's salary has also increased by 150 percent, since his monthly salary is now HUF 5 million instead of HUF 2 million. In fact, it is also reported that the government's increased salary ceiling of HUF 5 million can be played by the CEO of the Post Office without any problems, that the CEO takes on board and supervisory board positions in addition to his salary, of course not for free, and already has an average salary of HUF 6-6,5 million. However, this is not over. The senior manager of a public company can assume office in any number of companies in which there is no majority state ownership. For example, Magyar Posta is a shareholder in Takarékbank Zrt. and FHB Kereskedelmi Bank Zrt. Zsolt Szarka, CEO, has complied with both requests to take up office in these companies, of course not for free. The question is what interests are represented by the CEO at board meetings, the interests of Magyar Posta, or the interests of private companies, or of a fidesz background country. Ladies and gentlemen, This, too, may have contributed to the fact that our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, submitted a bill to the Parliament last week on the basis of which he intends to practically encrypt the public interest data of Posta, which operates and uses public money. I want to make it clear that I don't believe in coincidences. According to Viktor Orbán, it is not realistic for a teacher to wake up in the morning and suddenly start protesting about inhuman and unprofessional working conditions. I think it is not realistic that my colleague, Szilárd Németh, on the National Security Committee, wakes up one morning and realizes that the Postal Services Act needs to be amended. But he doesn't want to cut charges for postal services as a charge, he wants to encrypt the public use of the Posta Group. There's an inevitable question as to why they're trying to encrypt the Post Office. Why would it be a problem if the conditions under which the Posta purchased FHB Commercial Bank Zrt. 49 percent of its shares or why Magyar Posta Zrt. had to be sold to the FHB group by Magyar Posta Bejlesztési Zrt. Half. It may not be in the interests of the Posta that the encryption is in the interest, but of the FHB group and the savings cooperatives that are interlinked with the Posta. Szilárd Németh may not even want to protect the Posta, but the FHB interests belonging to the Spéder empire. Sooner or later, it's gonna come out, because nothing lasts forever. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, where they keep secrets, there may be trouble where they shut the public off public information for certain reasons, there must be a problem, and this reflects badly on the public company and on the private companies that are increasingly connected to it. I trust, though I have doubts that Szilárd Németh doesn't really want the thief-based government under cover of great postal secrecy to blow the shiny mail horn. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-16-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Although, by the title of the question, I thought we were going to talk about your ex-member, I was reassured that you did not, but it would have been unworthy of Congressman Varju to speak without his presence about the theft of the MSZP government. But it did not concern this question, so allow me to respond specifically to the payment of management in relation to the Posta and the state companies on the one hand. As you well know, there are a lot of public companies that, in addition to the universal service, also carry out competitive activities where they have to compete with dozens of companies in Hungary. And in these companies, we think it is lifelike for a government organization to be able to make such management payments as can be obtained by the same professionals on the market, as it is a guarantee that there are really professionals working in government companies, including state firms, who can be real competitors of other companies on the competitive market. With regard to the motion made by the representatives of the Posta, allow me to note that this motion does not apply to any activity related to the universal service. This protection, which also applies to public companies, applies only to those areas of activity where Posta is a competitor, for example in respect of parcel services or in respect of financial activities. Therefore, this type of restriction or this type of protection is absolutely coherent with the 2012 resolution issued by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information that the broad interpretation of the freedom of information which is not compatible with its social purpose cannot unduly limit the legitimate interest of the national economy. According to the Authority itself, therefore, the legitimate interest in keeping business data and information secret may also exist for companies with State-owned or majority public participation. That is why, in essence, this bill should support the concreteization of this, and where - I repeat - we are not talking about universal service, but rather about competitive market services, the same possibility should apply to these operators, including the Hungarian Post, which is appropriate to other market players, because what value and type of services they provide can indeed be classified as market secrets. However, all other data, whether relevant to the payment of people working in management or relevant to the performance of the public service mission, remained public and public in the public interest. We would have liked it if András Simor had used the same expectation when he was on the government. As far as I know, his monthly salary was set at HUF 8 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-16-8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mr György Lukács, Jobbik Group also submitted a pre-meeting address: I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is no coincidence that health is becoming more and more relevant not only in the media but also here, within the walls of the Parliament, and that it is important to talk about where health has come from at the beginning of 2016 with an inventory of the problems. [[9.20]] The best assessment of the situation was perhaps at the meeting of the National Health Round Table last week - perhaps one of the largest consultation organisations in the country, which was set up at the initiative of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. This organization has fully assessed the conditions that are typical in 2016 as acute symptoms of health care, and has found three important areas that can be described in one word: underfunded, underfunded and, of course, underfunded. Translated into Hungarian, this means - because it can be seen as a complicated word - that the state spends little, does not spend enough on health care, and it seems that it has its potential. When we talk about money in health care, it is immediately the first clause to start with how much the state spends as public expenditure, i.e. all the revenue that it devotes either from contributions or from taxpayers' tax forints to health. What we need to see here - and not by biased right-wing data, but by the good state report you have ordered - is that from 5.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent of national expenditure, which has not practically increased since 2013, so that, by the way, you think the economy is in a better performing state. This shows that funding is low not only in the Hungarian context and in relation to other sectors, but also in comparison with neighbouring countries. We also need to talk about the high levels of hospital debt. The 60 billion forints of hospital debt paid by the state overall had no brakes, and it was not possible to prevent them from piling up with any management restructuring. Again, this stock increases by 3-5 billion per month. But if we are talking about the money issue, it is important to mention the wages and salaries of workers. The unfortunate saying that it will be a minimum salary of 270 thousand forints, I think, if it was not a lie, but an unfortunately elected sentence, but the result of a mischosen policy, which systematically shows that in the last six years, despite the promises, payments have failed to increase in substance or even in virtually nothing. Let's just stick to the example of a simple health worker: the wage increases that you think are significant and fair to health professionals can be measured in a monthly increase of only HUF 1000-1500. That's what you've managed to achieve over the past year. But the problem is not only money in health care, but also bad conditions, bad community conditions. You can safely say the burnout, burnout signs that are suffered either by doctors, health professionals or rescue workers, but you can also say the tensions within the individual professions, which, on the one hand, are wage voltages between long-working specialists, fresh specialists or even residents. But we can also calmly talk about the conditions when rescue workers have to work under vile and humiliating conditions. Not long ago, we visited the rescue station in Ozd, where we experienced scandalous circumstances. One of the shame of the state is that there are still rescue stations where the state is unable to perform its task of being safe and in good conditions, even though the municipalities are all partners here. I think that we need a compassionate health care, in which compassion is created between patients and doctors on the one hand, and between patients, the system and doctors on the other, because this is the way to reduce tensions. Well, that's what health has come to today, and that's what professional organizations say. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will therefore launch a genuine national consultation in the field of health in 2016, in which we will primarily ask professional organisations, trade unions, patient organisations, associations and scientific workshops that have considerable knowledge of health, who can also confirm the problems already identified as the most important and burning crisis signals in health. We will ask these questions to the Hungarian households, and with the answers to these questions we will achieve that the government will finally hear the word of the profession, the sick, finally do something, and not just tricks with numbers or the inaccessible between them. The government needs to hear the voice of the profession, and I believe that the opinion of households through the real national consultation will force the government to take meaningful steps before the collapse of health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wish you very much success in this national consultation. Perhaps they could have done this before 2010, as soon as Jobbik got into Parliament to understand exactly what problems there are in health care, and then perhaps they would have seen that the measures of the last five years aimed at resolving the problems individually, in detail and in whole, at improving this situation. As regards, for example, the issue of surplus resources: honourable Member, you have obviously read or read the OECD country reports in which you focus specifically on health, education and innovation. In these, it makes clear that while the period before 2010 was indeed a period of withdrawal, the period of socialists currently absent from Parliament - 2,3 percent withdrawal in the last years of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Cabinet - has now not only slowed down, not only has this process stopped, but the government period of Fidesz-KDNP has slightly increased health resources. The OECD cannot, of course, be accused of being a government branch, with which we talk because it echoes our own opinion, because it criticises Hungary in many respects, it also expresses this in health care on certain aspects, in particular in the internal structure of health spending, the high amount that patients pay in drug prices, as drug prices are at a level similar to those in Western European countries due to the European common market, while health workers' salaries are not at the same level as in Western European countries. Here, for example, the OECD criticises or draws attention to a problem in relation to Hungary, but when it comes to total spending, it is now less or more that we spend on health care, but it clearly acknowledges that this government has stopped the withdrawal of funds from health care and has been able to achieve additional resources. Part of this is that you and your LMP fellow Member who is already away forget to say that in 2012-13, when the Hungarian economy started to start, when the Hungarian reforms had already made enough money in the budget to give, we also offered a salary increase to those who work in the health care sector, the 95 thousand people who work as doctors, nurses or other forms of health care. That was 27 percent and about 75 billion forints. This was HUF 75 billion, and hospital debt settlement was HUF 60 billion. So we are also talking about large amounts in some parts of this, when we want to improve the health situation in any way. I say these things because behind these OECD numbers, which we tell you here and elsewhere, there are concrete government decisions, concrete measures, concrete budgetary commitments, because we do believe it is important that health care is not a business on the one hand, and that everyone is given the highest standard of care on the other. That is why we have speeded up and grouped as many EU developments from Széchenyi Plans into the field of health so that hospitals can improve there and patients can go to decent conditions. You, too, when you attend these consultations or visit rural hospitals - I hope you are in as many places as possible - can see what are the hospital wings that have been renewed in recent years. I told you yesterday, but I repeat today, there was a hospital where, during the renovation, they bought a new one instead of a machine that had been on duty in that hospital for 40 years. Not five years ago, not ten years ago, not eight years ago, not fifteen years ago, but forty years ago in that hospital, and for the first time there was money to replace these machines with more modern ones. The task is great, the pregnant legacy that both this government and all governments have to deal with, since the problems go back decades. Consider, for example, the gratitude money, which is the cancer of the entire health system. The reason why we are launching the residency program, the young specialist scholarship - please never forget the word "youth" when you mention this program, because it is a misunderstanding - is that we are kicking the gratuity money out of the healthcare system, step by step, because young people who are there in the residency support programme already receive the extra 100, 150 or 200 thousand HUF scholarship, which they receive as basic funds, internships, emergency doctors or pediatricians, are willing to do exactly that, if they are in an ascending system, but are forced out of the healthcare system. These are the processes we started. I am very pleased that you will follow up on the problems and find the root causes of the problems. But if you see the root of the problem, you will see the problem, and you will also find very different solutions if you think on a sober and national basis than these measures. There was another set of ideas, privatization without barriers, which would have pushed the problem out, but would not have solved it for the people. But I believe that, on a national basis, in the interests of patients and of the country, this is the path that we have taken in the last five years, which is for the benefit of patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Mátyás Firtl, the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the title of the Széchenyi Memorial Year. I give you the floor, Congressman. [[9.30]]
u2016-02-16-13	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Count István Széchenyi is celebrating the 225th anniversary of his birth on 21 September 2016. On 2 January 2016, the Holy Mass of the High Priest opened the series of local events of the Memorial Year in the parish church of Szent István, in the spirit and unity worthy of the Széchenyi heritage. I am pleased that the Széchenyi-jubilee year could be launched in Nagycen by having concrete results from the current Orbán government's focus on Nagycenk and Széchenyi memorial sites, as compared to previous decades. The developments that have started on Nagycen since 2014 serve as a place of pilgrimage for the greatest Hungarian intellectual heritage of his life's monuments and facilities. Among the developments was the renovation of the roof structure and the outer northern facade of the Széchenyi Memorial Museum, the renovation of the Széchenyi Mausoleum in Nagycenk. On behalf of the inhabitants of the region, I thank the Government of Hungary. In addition, thanks to the Eszterháza Center, the manager of the Széchenyi memorial sites, which creates and performs the possibility of presenting and developing Széchenyi heritage and memorial sites. And just as we started the local memorial year in the spirit of our religious values in Nagycenk, I trust that this year the chapel of István Széchenyi can finally be restored to the dignity that deserves this value, which established Széchenyi's entire life, career and nation service. It is Széchenyi's own chapel, which also sustained the remains of the Earth brought home from Döbling until it found its final resting place. That is why I trust that prayer can once again be a place of prayer, and I trust that in dignity we can restore the holy place with the commitment, with respect, that it owes to this values of faith and to the greatness of Széchenyi posterity. Dear House, The existence, operation, professional work and background of the Eszterháza Center are essential to ensure that developments in the Nagycenk region can be implemented. This is supported by the effective cooperation between settlements, civilians and institutions in the region, which is a key to the success of further developments in the region. At the same time, the Eszterháza Centre, as a key institution of the region, has been able to generate tourism and tourism as a driving sector of the region as a whole and to promote the development of the region. The Eszterháza Center, symbolically speaking, makes the present result of the possibilities for the development of the two main-euric families of Transdanubia, the Esterházys and the Széchenyi, and in practice it has the necessary professional knowledge and equipment. Its mission and mission goes beyond Fertőd, it affects Sopron, Nagycenk, the Fertő region and the wider region, i.e. a guarantee of development and growth in the region. This is confirmed by two events last week: the cooperation of the Eszterháza Center with the University of West Hungary, whose base can be partly given by the tourism training of the Porpáczy Aladár school in Fertőd in the next period. Dear House, Széchenyi's spiritual legacy, the driving force of his life's work, his lifelong idea of patriotism. Therefore, Széchenyi's oeuvre is timely in 2016. As Gyula Illyés puts it: István Széchenyi's spiritual legacy is an inheritance that, in the life-changing moments of the nation's life, has always been a spiritual resource for the community, as a testimony to the fact that his life's work has affected Hungarian public thinking to such an extent that he can draw guidance from it in an attempt to find a way out of it. I am convinced that our work in this parliamentary session, as our common public activity, must be the basis of Széchenyi's view of life, in which the Széchenyi-jubilee year can strengthen us all. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank the Member for his commitment to the region among the walls of this House for many times. Thanks to God, the cooperation that our Secretary of State, the Eszterháza Centre and the Member, together with the local leaders, have shown over the past period has resulted in a great deal of saving, safeguarding and creating new values. I do not want to mention everything that Mr President has said, but I would like to focus specifically on Nagycenk, because the start of the work in Nagycenk last year is very hopeful, and it has established the tasks that we want to do this year. As the Member pointed out, last year we completely renovated the Széchenyi mausoleum, and under decent circumstances we can welcome visitors who want to salute the graves of many prominent personalities of the largest Hungarian and Széchenyi family, thus drawing attention to how much we all owe to István Széchenyi in the Carpathian Basin. In addition to the renovation of the mausoleum, our priority is to preserve the castle. Therefore, last year we renovated and replaced the roof of the entire castle with more than 100 million HUF. I think that we have created the possibility for many decades to solve internal renovation in a dignified way. So these are the foundational works that we have done to continue this work during this year's Széchenyi Memorial Year. I would like to report to the Member, that the Prime Minister's Office and, in particular, our State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Priority Cultural Investments, would like to organise on 8 April a major opening event for Nagycenk, for which we would also like to ask Mr. At this opening ceremony, there will be a scientific conference and the presentation of the new commemorative stamp to be issued by Magyar Posta for this day, and the first day's stamp will also take place on this occasion on Nagycenk. The opening conference is only important because at this opening conference I would also like to talk about how we will be setting up a new permanent exhibition for the birthday, on 21 September, on the implementation of which the government decided last year and adopted a government decision on the cult of Széchenyi and the renovation of the memorial site in Nagycenk. It has also provided sufficient resources for this. In order to really create a modern exhibition adapted to today's expectations, Minister Lázár asked an expert memorial committee responsible for preparing the exhibition. The members of this include: Professor András Gergely, who heads the research group of the Veritas Institute for History and is also the head of our memorial committee; also János Estók, Director General of the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and Library, Zoltán Fónagy, scientific associate of the Centre for Humanities of the Academy of Sciences, Tamás Dobszay, professor of the University of Humanities and Professor Ferenc Velkey, professor of the University of Debrecen, professor of Hungarian History at the University of Debrecen. They all published great writings and books about Széchenyi, so it is understandable that they will determine the professional direction of the future new exhibition. On 21 September we prepare two great things: one is the opening of the new permanent exhibition and the other is the reconstruction of the former chapel in the castle. [[9.40]] As is well known, this castle chapel was demolished during the period of socialism, separated by a bunk, its equipment was dragged away, and a carpenter's shop, a locker room, a shower, and a toilet were constructed from the chapel. This marked the attitude of the politicians and leaders of the era to both the professionalism and the Széchenyi heritage. I'm reporting that this chapel will be completely reconstructed, and we're going to fix it in the Széchenyi Memorial Year. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda, with the title of the Home Creation Programme. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-16-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, One of the challenges of Europe and Hungary is the decline of the population. Some people would solve the problem with immigrants, but we Hungarians respond with a definite no. The Hungarian government and Fidesz have long seen the solution in strengthening families and supporting childbearing. For Fidesz-KDNP, the most important thing is the child. Childbearing cannot be the same as taking on poverty. It is encouraging that 20 years ago, as many children have not been born in one family as they are now. Families with children live better, family tax breaks continue to grow. Most of the children receive the textbook free of charge and can eat free in daycare, kindergartens and schools. We should also mention the Erzsébet programme, which has provided a free holiday for 300,000 small children in the last four years. Based on the analysis of scientists and researchers, we can see that one of the obstacles to childbearing is the proper housing, i.e. lack of home. Fidesz therefore manages among the most important tasks the home creation programme and the strengthening programs that help families. We launched an unprecedented home creation programme on 1 January, which we are now expanding. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it wasn't always like that. Under the socialists, the subsidies for home creation were almost completely abolished, families were forced into fatal foreign exchange loans, wage cuts, pension cuts, electricity and gas prices, debt was the result of the socialists' reign. But it's in the past. But it's worth recalling that we know where we started. The Hungarian home creation programme is unique in Europe. It supports families and economic recovery at the same time. The main elements are the CSOK, i.e. the family's home creation discount, the possibility of VAT reclaiming, the reduction of VAT and the reduced housing loan of HUF 10 million for 25 years. The amount of the aid depends on the number of children for both new and used apartments. So more children are more money to the family. In case of the construction and purchase of a new apartment, the CSOK represents HUF 600 thousand for a child, HUF 2 million for two children 600 thousand for a non-refundable grant of HUF 10 million for three or more children. In the case of the purchase of used apartments, a child can receive a grant of HUF 600 thousand, 1 million HUF 430,000 for two children and 2 million HUF 200 thousand for three children. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to note that comfort standards are also harmonised for new and used properties. The new conditions take much more equitable account of the situation of people living in settlements with poor public utility and outside areas. Public employees may also purchase used real estate with non-refundable State aid. They also have the opportunity to take a step forward. Family home-building benefits can be claimed by spouses and partners alike, but the provision of support for a child is conditional on the existence of a marriage, with one of the parties - a future parent - being under 40 at the time of submission of the claim. Of course, the adopted child can also benefit from the benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The CSOK has aroused a huge interest among families and I hope the future married ones. There's a lot of interest. There are many practical questions. Fidesz supports the government because our policy is based on strengthening families. At the same time, before the agenda, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State for details and advice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-16-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-19	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me to briefly say a few words about where we started in 2010, the situation that the current government has inherited in terms of home creation. It may not be very elegant to talk about this in the absence of the socialists, but it is worth recalling where we started, what they did during their governance in the matter of home creation. First of all, the home creation system introduced during the first Orbán government - based on the comments so far they would certainly do so now - was abolished, and perhaps even more serious, after 2002, foreign exchange lending was allowed, and, in the slightest wording, the population was not sufficiently informed of the risks involved. The result is well known. The stock of foreign currency loans increased from 150 billion in 2004 to HUF 3000 billion in 2010. The current government has closed the era of foreign exchange loans with foreign exchange loans, the era that has brought little or no housing but indebtedness to Hungarian families. The end of the era of foreign exchange loans has also given the government the opportunity to rethink the home creation policy. I think the objectives are clear: we want all Hungarians to have apartments, houses, preferably owned and available prices. We also want more children to be born and the economy to grow. To this end, the government launched the home creation programme on 1 January. The launch of the programme was also justified by the fact that, compared to Poland, a quarter of the number of apartments and houses were built in Hungary, and one third of the houses were built in Hungary compared to the Czech Republic. This situation had to be changed. The main elements of the home creation programme are the significantly increased amount of non-refundable support, the family home creation discount, and the HUF 10 million discount loan for three children. Home-building is also served by the reduction of VAT and the significant simplification of construction rules. By launching the home creation programme, the government wants all social groups to take advantage of this opportunity. This objective is inter alia the possibility of applying for aid in areas where public works are not fully resolved, so that the waste water network or the supply of drinking water is not fully completed by means of drilled wells. In the case of new dwellings, there will be no limits on ownership, and in the case of used dwellings there will be no categories of internal square meters. These facilitations serve to enable more people to make use of the aid. A home-building discount can be applied to banks, which are already receiving claims on an ongoing basis. The official summaries have not yet been received, but from the informal summaries it is clear that there is more demand for new apartments than before, as expected. There is an important question here that I would like to raise in relation to banking, and this is the next one. A number of indications have been received earlier that individual banks do not accept the CSOK as their own contribution in the event of a person having three children but the third child has not yet been born. The government's position is clear: a home creation discount can also be accepted as an own contribution if the third child is not yet born. This is in line with a previous resolution of the Hungarian National Bank. We therefore ask the banks to take this into account. As far as information is concerned, the government has sought to standardise a set of regulations that had previously been wide-ranging and often require the ability of a lawyer, so the rules on new and used dwellings were summarised in two single regulations, which were published last week. I would also like to bring to your attention the Internet site.2016kormany.hu.hu, which also contains the basic information. I am also happy to report that the above-mentioned decisions are highly supported. According to a public opinion poll for the government, 90 percent of Hungarians support the provision of home support to families with three children of HUF 10 million. [[9.50]] According to four fifths of respondents, this is a particularly good opportunity for young people to improve their housing conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As long as this government is in office, it can be built on this home-building program. I think that regardless of party standing, everyone can agree that it is in our common interest to build more homes and have more children. Therefore, it is no exaggeration to say that home creation is a national matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The speeches before the agenda have come to an end. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2016-02-16-21	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the Law of 2010 on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys 54. On the basis of the proposal of the Prime Minister, I have determined that the mandate of Dr. Judit Bertalan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, will be terminated with effect from 14 February 2016. Budapest, 10 February 2016 Sincerely: János Áder
u2016-02-16-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between the Chemical Weapons Organisation and Hungary on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on the privileges and immunities of the OPCW until closure. Government referral T/8487. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-23	Mr President, Dear House, The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which was established by the Chemical Weapons Convention, is an international organization based in the Hague, which aims to ban chemical weapons worldwide and eliminate stocks. The Chemical Weapons Ban Convention, which banned the use, development and acquisition of chemical weapons, was the result of a 24-year negotiation process involving 40 states. The Convention was opened for signature in Paris in January 1993. Hungary ratified it in October 1996 and entered into force on 29 April 1997. The legal capacity, privileges and immunities of the Chemical Weapons Organisation, its officials and representatives of States Parties, as defined in the Chemical Weapons Convention, shall be determined by agreements between the Organisation and the States Parties. The Agreement between the Chemical Weapons Organisation and Hungary to be announced accordingly provides for the privileges and immunities of the Chemical Weapons Organisation in Hungary. The Agreement was signed by the Parties in The Hague on 3 December 2015. Through this agreement, Hungary grants the Chemical Weapons Organisation the same privileges and immunities as it grants to other international organisations under international law. On this basis, it regulates in detail the privileges, immunities and facilitations of the Chemical Weapons Organisation and its officials and experts, as well as the facilitations provided by Hungary as a Party State. The Agreement also provides that, as specified in that Agreement, the Chemical Weapons Organisation or any person enjoying privileges and immunities shall respect the laws and laws of the State Party in all respects and that the Chemical Weapons Organisation shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the State Party at all times in order to facilitate the normal conduct of the justice system and to ensure the retention of police authority measures and to avoid abuse of privileges, immunities and benefits. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, please.
u2016-02-16-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Secretary of State has said, the Chemical Weapons Organisation is an international organisation that aims to ban chemical weapons worldwide and eliminate stocks. His seat is in The Hague, Netherlands, and he was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize in 2013. The Chemical Weapons Organisation has mostly carried out its task in the quiet unknown, which is to verify the destruction of Member States' chemical weapons stocks, which was authorised by the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons, and its Destruction, signed in Paris in 1993. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, when it comes to chemical weapons, every human being has some kind of invisible, insidious, hundreds of destructive powers that require thousands of innocent lives, and just such an event has led to the withdrawal of the Chemical Weapons Organization and its operation from the silent unknown. The chemical weapons attack in Damascus on 21 August 2013 with more than 1,400 fatalities and the political situation that followed, which was almost the result of military intervention by the United States, brought the organization into the spotlight as part of a compromise solution developed by US and Russian diplomacy. On 14 September 2013, Syria signed the Chemical Weapons Ban Convention to avoid military intervention by the United States, making it 190th Member State of the Chemical Weapons Organisation. The Convention was ratified by 190 states until 2014, signed by 2 but has not yet been ratified, and 4 have not joined it at all. The States Parties account for about 98 percent of the world's population, land area and chemical industry, which truly authenticizes the complete and comprehensive destruction of chemical weapons. States Parties ratifying the Convention undertake not to develop, manufacture, acquire, accumulate or maintain chemical weapons in any other way. They shall also not hand over, directly or indirectly, such a weapon to another State, use a chemical weapon or initiate any military preparation for the use of a chemical weapon, nor engage, initiate or encourage anyone to engage in prohibited activities as defined in the Convention. At the same time, States Parties undertake to destroy chemical weapons owned or left in the territory of other States Parties and to liquidate their chemical weapons production facilities and do not use chemical coercive devices as warfare methods. What is the proposal before us about? Nothing more than to create a proper framework for the operation of the Chemical Weapons Organisation in Hungary. The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Destruction provides that the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons has legal capacity in the territory of the State Party or in any other area under its jurisdiction or control, as well as the privileges and immunities necessary for the performance of its tasks. The Convention also provides for representatives of the State Party, representatives appointed to the Executive Board, the Director-General and the privileges and immunities of the members of the staff of the Organisation. To sum up, the agreement to be announced provides for the privileges and immunities of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which are to be granted in the territory of Hungary. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-16-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-16-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons, signed on 13 January 1993 in Paris, Hungary is the 1997 CIV. It's been announced by law. [[10.00]] In 1993, the Convention provided for the entry into force of the Convention on the 180th day following the 65th ratification. And here I would like to draw attention to the interesting fact that the official entry into force was precisely the Hungarian ratification, since in 1996 the Hungarian Government sent the instrument of ratification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations as the 65th. The Convention established a separate organisation for verification. And this is the organization of the Chemical Weapons Convention. The verification mechanism itself has two pillars. One is the declaration of the Member States, the nation states, and the other is the form of on-the-spot checks. The Convention also provided for the privileges and immunities necessary for the performance of their duties to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in the territory of the States Parties or in any other area under their jurisdiction or control. Article VIII of the Convention Article 50 of the Treaty provides that such legal capacity, privileges and immunities are to be determined by separate agreements between the organisation and the States Parties. The agreement to be published accordingly provides for the privileges and immunities of the organisation in the territory of Hungary. The bill empowers the organisation and Hungary to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the organisation. The Agreement consists of 13 articles and, like international organisations established in Hungary, regulates the organisation in detail, as well as the privileges, immunities and immunities of its officials and experts, as well as the facilitations provided by Hungary as a State Party, as follows. As with other international organisations, the Chemical Weapons Organisation and its property and funds held by anyone are exempt from any form of jurisdiction, unless in one case the Organisation expressly renounced them. The property and funds of the organisation shall be exempt from search, seizure, confiscation, expropriation and any other form of intervention, whether measures of an enforcement, administrative, judicial or legislative nature. The premises, archives and documents of the organisation are inviolable wherever they are located. The organisation shall be entitled, within the limits of the Agreement, to use a cipher and to transmit and receive correspondence and other official communications, by courier or sealed packages enjoying the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and packages. As with other international organisations, and without prejudice to the status of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons as an intergovernmental organisation, it shall be entitled, in accordance with the relevant laws and laws of Hungary, to reimbursement of taxes on movable and immovable property and services necessary for the performance of its tasks under the Convention. The Agreement provides that, as specified in that Agreement, the organisation or any person enjoying privileges and immunities shall respect in all respects the laws and regulations of the State Party and that the organisation shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the State Party at all times in order to facilitate the normal conduct of the justice system and to ensure that measures of police authority are maintained and to avoid abuse of privileges, immunities and benefits. So the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the publication of this convention and the adoption of the proposal before us. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if one of our independent fellow Members wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. No one came forward to speak in writing. I am asking if any of my fellow Members would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to answer. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. general discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/8838. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-29	Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, in line with Hungary's foreign economic, foreign policy and national policy priorities, the consular service has made procedures available to foreign Hungarians at our foreign representations that further strengthened the service and customer-friendly nature of the Hungarian administration. In line with this, the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. The fundamental objective of the amendment of the Act is to create a legislative framework that will allow the simplification of procedures, the continuous modernisation of the IT support of consular powers and the benefits of the development of EU consular cooperation to further enhance the effectiveness of the consular service. The extension of the procedures of the consular service and the increasingly versatile consular tasks and responsibilities in this context necessarily entail the need to clarify the arrangements for the organisation of the consular service. The requirements for the appointment of official consular officials and the qualifications obligations required by them have been laid down in ministerial regulations so far, due to the bill, the provisions in question will be raised to a legal level. The proposed amendment will therefore allow the conditions for the appointment of professional and honorary consuls to be laid down in the consular protection law, which, at the same time as emphasising professionalism in this way, will have a clear positive impact on the functioning of the consular service. In addition to the provisions on the organisation of the consular service, the bill serves to comply with the obligations arising from Hungary's membership of the European Union concerning consular cooperation in the Member States by transposing into the Hungarian legal system the provisions of the Council Directive on the protection of EU citizens who are not represented in third countries, adopted in 2015, which require a legal level. The EU legislation in question is intended to enhance coordination of the procedures of the consular authorities of the Member States in order to ensure the widest possible consular protection of each other's citizens. The legislation to be transposed concerns, in particular, the coordination and practical aspects of consular cooperation in the Member States by providing for mechanisms for joint management of crisis situations which are becoming more and more frequent today. Some of the provisions to be implemented in domestic law fall by nature to the level of regulation, so that, in addition to the Act on consular protection, its implementing regulation is amended, thereby ensuring the consistency of the two laws. In addition, the bill aims to meet the needs of simplifying administrative procedures and relevant legislation and thereby increasing customer friendliness in line with the Government's programme. To this end, the specifications relating to the consular officer's activities of a notary nature will be clarified and detailed in the consular protection law and its implementing regulation, thereby enabling the special legislation on the notary-type procedure of consular officials to be found in all of these two laws. [[10.10]] Dear House, The constant need to modernise the functioning of the public administration and the transparency of legislation directly affecting citizens, as well as the implementation of the obligations arising from our country's membership of the European Union, constantly poses new challenges for Hungarian consular officials. The objective of all the provisions presented above is clearly to contribute to improving the effectiveness of the procedures of the consular service, to the achievement of government objectives aimed at strengthening customer-friendly public administration and to the implementation of our commitments as Member States of the European Union. In view of all this, I ask this House to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-16-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! The scope and composition of the tasks of the Hungarian consular service have undergone a significant change in recent years. As Minister of State has said, consular officials' activities, in line with our country's foreign economic, foreign policy and national policy priorities, have allowed for procedures at foreign representations that strengthen the service and customer-friendly nature of the Hungarian administration, bearing in mind the need to simplify procedures. The aim of the legislative amendment is to increase the efficiency of the consular service by creating the necessary conditions for simplifying procedures and providing better IT support, and for making use of the opportunities offered by European Union consular cooperation. At present, consular officials' responsibilities and powers are governed by the consular protection law and by the Foreign Ministry's Decree implementing its provisions on detailed rules for consular protection. In recent years, consular officials have increased their responsibilities, which calls for clarification of the arrangements for the organisation of the consular service. The provisions on the appointment of consular officials have so far been contained in ministerial regulations, which are now being transferred to the law. Until now, the conditions for the appointment of honorary consuls have been regulated by the law, by a ministerial decree of professional consuls. The amendment also transposes EU legislation on coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate the consular protection of EU citizens who are not represented in third countries into Hungarian law. Accordingly, the consular service shall assist nationals of another Member State not represented in that country in the event of a disaster, war or armed conflict. At present, the certification procedures of consular officials are regulated jointly by a Ministry of Foreign Affairs decree, which will now take place in the law. The amendment complies with the provisions of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-16-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the time when Hungary created regulations and laws on consular activities, the aim was to protect the interests of Hungarian citizens abroad through consular service and diplomacy. In this official consular activity an extensive TB. consular network also assisted in the performance of advocacy tasks and administrative authority tasks. The fact that this draft law or law has been adopted and that it has been regulated through regulations is also due to the obligation of the Constitution to state that all Hungarian citizens have the right to enjoy the protection of the Hungarian State during their stay abroad. Thus, the various laws governing consular activities have been drawn up by virtue of this basic statutory obligation. Hungary is represented outside the European Union in 97 countries and diplomatic relations are strengthened by bilateral consular agreements. Hungary has a bilateral bilateral agreement on consular activities with 42 countries, and there are more than 230 countries appointed to Hungary. Consul. So it can be seen that this is a very extensive activity and not only through official consuls, but also through honorary consuls the consuls appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs throughout the world. The purpose of this amendment is to transpose into Hungarian law the European Union Council Directive, which promotes the consular protection of EU citizens who are not represented in third countries. In parallel with this amendment or the transposition of this EU legal order, there is also an opportunity to clarify one or two definitions, one or two earlier definitions, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the consular service, simplifying procedures and maximizing and fully exploiting the opportunities offered by European Union consular cooperation in order to create conditions and, of course, retain the conditions for becoming a consul. Previously, the 2001 XLVI. It was a law that regulated the tasks and powers of the consuls, and the implementation was also provided for by a decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 2001. This detailed regulation was important because of the diversity of the Hungarian consular service, since this activity is regulated internationally, and also through internal regulation, there is a need for more detailed regulation of consular activities through sectoral regulation. And we welcome the fact that, taking this opportunity, a number of clarifications have been made and this law has been adapted in a number of places, which facilitates the effectiveness of the consular service. We are very pleased that the pass on the good faith and cooperation of the client has been included in the consular service and the whole process, because obviously a consul can only perform its task effectively if the customer, the Hungarian citizen in the third country, has good faith and full cooperation. The legal harmonisation tasks between the Foreign Ministry Decree and the Law have also been clarified. Certificate management, clarification and definition of deposit management, for example, that deposit management is an official task, we are very pleased that this has, in the end, been clarified in a satisfactory manner between the enforcement regulation and the law. We are also pleased that, not only in cases of violent crime... - because earlier the law stated that the consular service covered violent crimes and accidents, and although we know that in practice consuls at Hungarian embassies were conscientious in carrying out their duties and providing assistance to troubled Hungarian citizens, the law made this type of intervention mandatory only in cases of violent crimes. [[10.20]] The consular service now applies not to violent crimes but to much broader crimes, and we welcome this; as well as the possibility of a kind of cooperation and coordination between EU consular services: EU non-represented citizens are also covered by consular services and consular activities. This obviously sometimes means that Hungary or a consul operating at a Hungarian embassy must perform these tasks, and in such a case we will help the citizens of other EU Member States, but obviously there may be a case where Hungarian citizens are in trouble in a country where Hungary is not represented and there is no consular service, or there is no honorary consul or consul, but in this case it is in the interests of our country that the consul of another EU Member State accredited to the country can provide the consular service and the Hungarian citizen in distress can turn to it for help. In this sense, we believe that all amendments are in line with the interests of all Hungarian citizens and guarantee their safety wherever they travel in the world, and that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary supports these amendments and the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Turgyán, an Armenian ethnic advocate. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2016-02-16-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I'm - as the Armenians would say; stick to the Hungarian language, it will be easier for all of us. Allow me to briefly summarise the position of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary on the bill. Dear House, Citizens may legitimately claim to be assisted or, if necessary, protected by the State of their nationality in relation to their foreign activities. The turn related to their foreign activities means not only the cases that arise in the course of their stay abroad, but also the issues related to the foreign affairs of the resident citizen, such as estate cases, proceedings against him abroad - about ten thousand Hungarian citizens abroad - can also be referred to. Under Article 27 (2) of our current Fundamental Law, every Hungarian citizen has the right to the protection of Hungary during his stay abroad. It clearly and precisely sets out the objective of the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. It is also regulated in detail by law. In the European context, the legal history of protecting citizens abroad can be traced back to the Paulskirche Constitution adopted in 1849, according to which all German citizens abroad are protected by the empire. Hungary concluded bilateral consular agreements with countries belonging to the Socialist bloc in the first place after the Second World War. The 1963 Vienna Convention on consular relations established by the 92 UN Member States was published by Hungary by Decree-Law No 13 of 1987. For the first time in the period prior to the change of regime, it was stated in 1987 that the protection of the rights and interests of Hungarian citizens residing abroad was provided by the foreign representation bodies of the Hungarian People's Republic. This was repealed by the 1989 Foreign Travel and Passport Act, with which, in essence, at the same time, the Constitution stated that all Hungarian citizens were entitled to the protection of the Republic of Hungary during their legal stay abroad. After the change of regime, the first Hungarian consular law was published by the Parliament more than a decade later, on 3 July 2001. States traditionally have two means to protect their citizens who need their help. One is consular protection under Hungarian law, while the other is diplomatic protection based on the discretionary decision of the state under the law of almost all States. The two legal institutions differ despite many similarities. Both are theoretically based on the possibility that the citizen may be entitled to the protection of his state during his stay abroad. The main difference between the two types of protection is that while diplomatic protection can be regarded as an international dispute between States, in which the State enforces its own right, consular protection is an internal matter, which is a procedure before the authority of the State of the offence and is intended to protect the individual rights of a citizen residing abroad. In international legal frameworks, consular protection functions are guaranteed by the Vienna Convention of 1963, which includes two things in substance: the protection of the residents of the sending state - natural and legal persons - and the provision of assistance and support to the residents of the sending State. The justification for the basic legislation makes it clear that the constitutional approach referred to essentially guarantees the right to consular protection and can be interpreted in accordance with international legal obligations. This legal framework will be implemented in practice by the 2001 XLVI, which is now to be amended. Law. Dear Parliament, After a brief summary of the history of law, I would like to state that our committee supports all elements of the legislative process that improve the quality of life and guarantee legal certainty for citizens belonging to nationalities in Hungary. In this context, allow him to highlight the principles and practical issues which may relate to the specific situations of protection of the interests of citizens arising from the dual or possibly multiple identity of the nationalities in Hungary. This multiple identity primarily means that a large part of our fellow citizens of nationality are also nationals of other states outside the EU, such as Ukraine, Armenia and Serbia. As a result of the wording of the Fundamental Law, the Hungarian constitutional arrangement guarantees the possibility of consular protection only for natural persons of Hungarian nationality, not directly for legal persons or persons without nationality, including refugees and stateless persons. This does not mean, of course, that consular protection is not available to legal persons, but that they are not guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, but by the consular law. The provision of consular protection to two or more citizens, including certain members of nationalities, constitutes a reasonable restriction on consular protection. § 2 of the Act, according to which a Hungarian national with other nationality is entitled to protection in the State of another nationality to the extent that the host State allows it. This principle of citizenship is in some sense overwritten by the EU membership of our country, because under the Lisbon Treaty, any citizen of the Union is entitled to the protection of diplomatic or consular authorities of any Member State under the same conditions as nationals of that Member State, in the territory of a third country where the Member State of his nationality is not represented. Dear Parliament, The legal institution of consular protection is one of the classic institutions of international law, its historicality, development and application are based on uniform, quasi-harmonised practices on a number of issues, on similar procedures per state, but there is no way to avoid technical clarifications, matching and updating interpretation provisions to changing life situations. The bill before this House clarifies these elements of content, and our committee believes that it is extremely careful and professional. Allow me to explain in detail certain points of the justification of the bill, which are important for us nationalists. [[10.30]] The submission is made in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 2 (2). § 2 of the Act clarifies the provisions on the structure of the consular service, thereby bringing to a legal level the concepts and definitions referred to in the Vienna Convention. In this sense, detailed regulation of the functioning of professional and honorary consular officials is of particular importance. As is known, professional consuls are members of the foreign affairs administration of the sending State, while honorary consuls appointed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs typically have more limited powers, while their importance is increased in international practice. Hungary currently has 236 senior consuls in 104 countries. 146 of them operate in 80 countries outside the European Union. In Hungary, nearly 60 honorary consuls lead consular representation. This cost-saving, efficient and professional system has once again gained momentum today. It can be felt and seen that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has given priority to the development and management of this highly traditional institutional system, which is a little under the background of socialist governments. It is a special pleasure for the advocates to find a consular representative among the leaders of the minority self-governments. Both the spirit and the text of the bill provide assurance that one of the old-new support mechanisms for national minority representation, the consular system, will be reintegrated by foreign affairs administration. We also welcome the fact that the Ministerial Commissioner for Honorary Consuls has also started his work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The objective of the proposed amendment is to transpose the Directive on coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate the consular protection of EU citizens who are not represented in third countries into Hungarian law. It follows from the intention that Articles 3 and 4 § 2 clarifies in accordance with EU practice, in this case it extends the content of consular assistance, its content, the range of citizens to be protected. As the lead speaker of the committee, allow me to highlight some examples from my own nationality, the Armenian community in Hungary. According to our own estimates, there are hundreds of Armenian origins living in Hungary, our citizens who are legally resident, who have not yet acquired Hungarian citizenship despite their decades of presence here, their family and business ties. In principle, the Armenian authorities are responsible for their consular protection, but since the end of Armenian-Hungarian diplomatic relations, this has become very difficult. It is understandable that the protection of their interests here is effectively provided by the national minority advocate, obviously without legal authorisation only by limited means. Another example of Armenian relevance is that, following the deterioration of diplomatic relations, the Hungarian honorary consular officer operating in Yerevan is the only and almost exclusively in the maintenance of transversal communication between the two countries, although formally suspending his activities. The situation is simpler, but more complicated, for example, in the case of a Ukrainian-Hungarian dual citizen of Ukrainian nationality, who may be in trouble while on holiday in a country outside the EU. In case of a problem, to whom should he turn? The Ukrainian Consul or the Hungarian Consul Service? If there are none in the country, can you look for EU representation? Is it not possible that he would be sent from there in the absence of jurisdiction because he was able to prove himself with a Ukrainian passport? Obviously, there are procedures for such cases, which should be further clarified in implementing regulations and referred to in the text of the law. My second point is that as a minority advocate, we have gained experience and practice on a number of administrative and advocacy issues. It would be logical and reasonable if national minority advocates could be entrusted with honorary consular duties following prior State consultations. The possibility of doing so in principle is unclear, since elected members of a representative body are not normally entrusted with consular duties; although nothing prohibits it, it is not customary, but seems to be a reasonable option. It would be worth starting a technical consultation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Committee of Nationalities. Nationalities in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity, including the use of his/her mother tongue. The question also arises with regard to consular protection as to whether it is a legal disadvantage for our fellow nationalities to use their mother tongue in consular proceedings abroad. Is the consular service prepared for this? These issues, these examples, highlight the high importance of national representation and consular service in the complex geopolitical relationship of cooperation between countries. Mr President, Dear House, I refer here to the fact that the bill is 6 and 7. The clarification of consular tasks, certification and deposit management, as indicated in Section 2 of this Article, contributes substantially to the creation of a customer-friendly consular service portfolio. On behalf of our Committee, I am grateful and happy to endorse that intention to submit - 6. Article 2 (6) - which gives the Minister of Foreign Affairs the power of discretion to supplement the powers of the honorary consular officer. This will also facilitate the development of this important institutional system, its methodological and procedural integration into the system of external relations administration. Dear Parliament, The possibility of consular protection within the European Union represents a new dimension, and the success of cooperation requires uniform and clear regulation. The proposal is an important legislative step, a major instrument for harmonisation of laws in order to ensure that the protection of the interests of Hungarian citizens, the modernisation of the Hungarian foreign affairs administration along the planned strategy, is carried out in a professional manner, especially with regard to the European role of Hungary and its role in international relations. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I support the presentation and wish the consular service good luck. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the advocates, the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-16-36	I thank Tamás Turgyán for the speech by the Armenian ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-16-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic provisions on the tasks and powers of consular officials are set out in the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. It is set out in law and in the Decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 2001 on detailed rules for consular protection. The increasingly versatile consular function requires clarification of the provisions on the organisational structure of the consular service, which also means raising the provisions on the appointment of consular officers to the legal level in the so far ministerial decrees. The amendment will allow the conditions for the appointment of professional and honorary consuls as part of the consular service to be laid down in the same legislation. In addition, the simplification of the legislative funds is aimed at the re-allocating the regulation on the certification activities of consular officials to the consular protection law and the implementing regulations, which implies the repeal of the Joint Foreign Ministry and Ministry of Justice Regulation on detailed rules for the consular and consular certification activities of the consular officer. This proposal is also intended to transpose into Hungarian law the 2015 Council Directive on coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate the consular protection of EU citizens who are not represented in third countries, which is now before us. However, we have some comments on the bill, and two specific questions are raised. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to be kind enough to answer these questions. On the one hand, it is not clear that the bill is 2. In the case of the Act on consular protection, a paragraph is added, which stipulates that only the diplomatic staff of the Ministry may be granted for a consular examination. So it's a question of why the bill ties the professional exam to diplomatic status. The second is that one paragraph of the bill sets out the conditions under which a government official may be appointed as a professional consular officer. According to this: if you have or have been legally exempted from an administrative examination and have at least two years of administrative practice, of which you have spent three months in the Ministry's competent department in consular matters, or if you have a legal examination or an administrative examination, and have obtained at least one month of professional experience in the Ministry's consular department, and if you have passed a successful consular examination after taking the consular course. [[10.40]] Therefore, in view of these considerations, it is possible not to give to which political appointees the possibility of making consular certificates in accordance with Article 6 of the proposal. Article 14 of the Act on consular protection A paragraph is added that the Minister may authorise the Head of the diplomatic or professional consular mission or the interim administrator, irrespective of the fulfilment of the conditions set out in that paragraph, to draw up a consular certificate in the absence of a professional consular officer authorised in accordance with that paragraph. So if these two elements, which I have mentioned, are further explained by the Secretary of State, we are very pleased. Basically, the proposal itself contains substantially technical amendments and clarifies the current regulation. So we expect answers to the questions, but the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. István Mikola, State Secretary, if he wishes to answer. [[On Dr. István Mikola's signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-39	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for your reflections. I have written down the questions of Congresswoman Márta Demeter, we will discuss them with experts, and we will return to your question with concrete answers during the debate on the draft law. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There follows a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Islamic Republic on the publication of an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes until closure. The government referral is T/8551. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In November 2015, we entered into an agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The agreement was signed in Tehran following consultations on the basis of the mandate given in the Prime Minister's decision and the Government's decision. The application of the Agreement precludes double taxation of the income of individuals and businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income or type of property. The agreement shall also give the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties the opportunity to exchange information on tax matters and to initiate a conciliation procedure for the implementation of the Agreement by either Contracting Party. The Hungarian-Iran Tax Convention is in line with the economic interests of the partner States in a balanced manner, and complies with international practice, principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary on income and asset taxation. It is also in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and serves the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. Following Iran's economic opening, Hungary, like Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, will have an international treaty on taxation issues, which is essential for the development of business relations, which will also serve to preserve the country's competitiveness, as will the need to establish a tax convention. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the tax convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-16-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Hungary took up diplomatic relations with Iran in 1939, which was renewed in 1951, we raised it as ambassadors and opened our embassy in Tehran. Following the victory of the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Hungary immediately recognised the newly established Islamic Republic of Iran. Parliament's Friendly Branches will help us improve our cooperation. In the Iranian Parliament, in the summer of 2000, the Friendly Department was founded in the Hungarian Parliament in December 2000. The first meeting took place in May 2005 in the form of a visit by the Hungarian four-party delegation to Tehran. In April 2013, the Tehran Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mining and Agriculture visited Budapest with a high-level business delegation. On this occasion, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry organised a Hungarian-Iran Economic Forum and a business meeting. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry organized a business delegation of 19 members to Iran in 2014 with the cooperation of the Hungarian embassy in Tehran. The purpose of the visit was to strengthen and expand Hungarian-Iranian economic relations. Trade between Hungary and Iran has not changed significantly in recent years. In 2013, there is an increase in both exports and imports. For Hungarian exports, processed foods, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, mechanical engineering, construction, agriculture, food industry, environmental technologies and tourism are sectors and product groups. However, it is important to take into account that trade in certain goods may be restricted or prohibited. In 2015, a new era began in relations between Hungary and Iran. During the Prime Minister's visit, ministers from the two countries signed several bilateral agreements, for example, to avoid double taxation and encourage investment. The Hungarian delegation was also part of a group of Hungarian businessmen. The government adopted a seven-point action plan in July 2015 in connection with the development of Hungarian-Iranian economic and commercial relations. This includes irrigation, water management, engineering services, city management and automotive supplies. The Action Plan also envisages the opening of a Hungarian cultural institute in Tehran. Hungary believes that Iran's return to the international community will help to restore stability in the Middle East. In July 2015, the UN Security Council voted in favour of the Agreement between the international community and Tehran on the peaceful use of Iran's nuclear energy. The implementation of this deal is monitored by experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency and depends on their opinion on the gradual lifting of the economic and financial sanctions imposed on Iran. The EU has already suspended some restrictive measures following the previous February agreement, the duration of which was subsequently extended. The proposal before us concerns the above-mentioned agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the area of income and property taxes, and its publication. Why is that important? Because the development of bilateral economic relations is greatly facilitated by a legally regulated economic environment. [[10.50]] The conclusion of the tax convention provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for investors in Hungary and Iran. The main objective of the agreement between Hungary and Iran on the avoidance of double taxation, signed on 30 November 2015, is to regulate taxation and make it predictable in bilateral relations. The scope of the agreement covers income and property taxes. Its importance is to exclude double taxation of the income of individuals and businesses by applying it in such a way as to determine the scope of which party has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income and type of property. The Agreement provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with an opportunity to exchange information and ensures that either Contracting Party initiates a conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Agreement. I would ask my fellow Members to support what is contained in this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as has been said here in the presentation, and also from a representative woman, we can talk about the transposition of an OECD model convention into the Hungarian legal order. This is an OECD-blanketta, of which Hungary has concluded dozens with several countries over the past decades. And obviously these OECD Model Conventions to avoid double taxation, as stated in the proposal, are essential conditions for the start-up and effective functioning of trade and economic relations between the two countries. This is the first condition for the functioning of economic and commercial relations between Iran and Hungary. Hungary, as my colleague Mónika Bartos pointed out, has a long-standing economic relationship with Iran. Indeed, even before World War II, diplomatic relations were adopted, strengthened in 1951, and we can look back on economic, commercial, culturally extensive and diverse relations between the two countries. It is also true that, although Hungary was still in the Socialist bloc at the time, Hungary recognized the new government and its new form of state in Iran and strengthened diplomatic relations with Iran in 1979, after the outbreak of the Iranian Islamic revolution. However, after the fall of the Iron Curtain and the end of the Cold War, Hungary moved from the socialist path, the path of communism to the democratic path of capitalist development, and in its foreign policy, Eurolantism was the determining factor. And, unfortunately, in Hungarian foreign policy, the kind of thinking that has lived on Iran for many decades, for more than half a century, has radically changed, because the Western countries, the Member States of the European Union and the broad community of Euro-Atlanticism - to which we wanted to join in the 1990s - have carried out a kind of isolation attempt against Iran, to which Hungary also voluntarily joined. We remember that in the eighties, the West instigated Saddam Hussein in Iraq to launch an open war against the Islamic Republic of Iran, and then when it failed after a long war and a large number of blood sacrifices, it waged a kind of permanent sanctions war against Iran. Financial, economic, commercial and political sanctions have been imposed on Iran, which has certainly caused a lot of damage, probably not only to Iran, but also to the world as Iran is a country in the Middle East that is decisive both by its economic and commercial weight and from an energy policy and energy policy perspective. We are very pleased that the Western countries have finally realised that not only from an economic and commercial point of view, but also from a geostrategic point of view - if the aim is to create security in the Middle East and create the conditions for peaceful, harmonious development - Iran is inevitable in this endeavour. We are very pleased that you have finally made it this far in Washington, Brussels and other western centres, and we are very happy that this sanctions policy is finally lifted. What is the real tragedy is that Hungary did not view its own interests and did not pay attention to its own interests when it was thinking about Iran, but, given the pressure of Brussels-Washington, it directly stood behind those who took the sanctions policy and waited for the authorisation from Brussels and Washington to establish normal trade, economic and financial relations with Iran, despite the fact that, once again, Hungary's relations with this country go back for a rare period of time. And at that time, I did not even refer to the ancient relationship that exists between Hungary and Iran because of the jasians as a kind of cultural link for centuries or thousands of years. I am very pleased that these relations can be reheated, and that kind of sanctioning madness that was decisive in the Western centres can finally be put behind us, and with the negotiation, acceptance and signature of such an OECD model convention, economic and commercial relations between the two countries can go on the road to normalization. Even if Hungarian foreign policy, Hungarian economic diplomacy and Hungarian foreign trade thinking have come this late, but we are glad to see it at last; it is better late than never. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary naturally supports the signing and adoption of this convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-16-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The main objective of the agreement between Hungary and Iran on the avoidance of double taxation, signed on 30 November 2015, is to regulate taxation and make it predictable in bilateral relations. The scope of the agreement covers income and property taxes. Its importance is to exclude the double taxation of income of individuals and businesses by applying it to determine the scope of which party has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income and type of property. The Agreement shall provide the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with an opportunity to exchange information and shall ensure that any Contracting Party initiates a conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Agreement. The provisions of the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes signed in Tehran on 30 November are as follows: The Government of Hungary understands that Hungary's obligations under this Agreement are in line with its commitments as a member of the European Union. [[11.00]] However, if Hungary concludes in future that its obligations under this Agreement are not in line with the requirements of Hungary as a member of the European Union, both Contracting States may consult each other on possible amendments to the Agreement. According to the OECD standard, it refers to a full exchange of information, which also allows for disclosure of information on banking secrets and ownership interests, if it becomes possible in Iran's internal legislation. That's all I wanted to say, thank you for the floor. The Socialist Party supports this bill.
u2016-02-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank you for the thoughts expressed in your comments, supporting sentences, and supporting proposals. Once again, I would like to ask you to support the bill with your votes, as has been said here in the speeches and during the speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. and the general debate on the draft law amending Law No I of 2004 on sport until closure. The government referral is T/8840. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government decided to support the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Metropolitan Municipality in XXXIII of 2024. Olympic Games as well as the XVII. His competition for the production of paralympic games in Budapest. The Olympics are a major event of major importance for society as a whole, which already requires a high level of socio-economic engagement in the course of the tender. In view of this, it is necessary to establish the conditions for sufficient resources for the non-profit company responsible for writing the Olympic tender. In view of all of this, the bill before you proposes a new tax incentive scheme, more specifically a new corporate tax advantage, which allows companies to provide support from their business results to the Municipality of Budapest and the private non-profit limited liability company established by the MOB. Summer Olympics and XVII. to cover the costs of the tender to be submitted in Budapest for the settlement of paralympic games. By introducing this system, as is the case with other preferential schemes already in place under the existing tax rules, taxpayers, otherwise willing to support, are also interested in source insurance. Under the new aid scheme, corporate tax entities may grant the non-profit company responsible for carrying out the Olympic tender without any repayment obligation to support the costs incurred in carrying out the Olympic tender. In exchange for this support, support taxpayers will be entitled to a similar tax relief to the provision of already successful sports or cultural aid. The tax relief may be used on the basis of a subsidy certificate issued by the non-profit company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender, the method of which is provided for in the sport law chapter of the bill. According to the proposal, tax relief, similar to tax incentives to promote sport and culture under the rules in force, can be applied from the tax year of the aid and subsequent tax years, but last from the tax year ending in calendar year 6 following the calendar year of the aid. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendment of the proposal to the sport law regulates the conditions and procedures for issuing aid certificates for tax relief in support of the Olympic tender introduced under the corporate tax system. It is proposed that the company responsible for carrying out the Olympic tender for receiving the aid issue the aid certificate on the basis of the grant agreement concluded between the parties. The aid certificate shall contain the name, registered office, tax number and the amount of the aid. The company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender shall issue the aid certificate within 30 days of the conclusion of the grant agreement in the event of legal conditions. The aid certificate shall be withdrawn with the simultaneous notification of the State tax authority if the supporter fails to comply with the grant agreement. In order to ensure transparency, the proposal states that only taxpayers who, at the time of conclusion of the grant agreement, are deemed to be non-public taxpayers can benefit from the corporate tax reduction. The proposal to amend the sport law sets out the amount of resources that can be collected by the company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender. According to the proposal, the combined value of aid certificates issued by the company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender for 2016 and 17 should not exceed HUF 19 billion. The proposal ensures that funding for the implementation of the Olympic tender is in any event used in the context of the Olympic objectives. The proposal states that the non-profit-making company responsible for the implementation of the Olympic tender shall refer back to the central budget until 31 January 2018 the aid which has not been used until 31 December 2017. We are confident that this proposal will make taxpayers interested, and will encourage socio-economic cooperation that can make a major contribution to the success of the Olympic tender, ultimately to enable Hungary to organise an Olympic Olympics. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Gelencsér, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-16-53	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the introduction of the corporate tax subsidy scheme in 2011, 300 new Hungarian sports estates have been built and nearly 500 renewed. In the five visual team sports in the Tao - football, handball, basketball, water polo and hockey - the number of certified competitors has increased from 260 thousand to 350 thousand in the last four years. The growth is particularly significant in the field of replacement age athletes. The government has allowed businesses to spend up to 75% of their profits on sports purposes. The money is made by businesses, they decide where to give it. This is the most transparent process, since all sports organisations, sports schools and re-teaching foundations belonging to a particular sport can benefit from offers from companies, which are approved by the professional associations of sports. The government has already decided to support its application for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the City Council in Budapest. [[11.10]] The Olympics are a major community event for Hungary and the Hungarian society as a whole, providing the experience of joining together, which already requires a high priority socio-economic engagement in the course of the tender. However, the Olympics also offer us a chance to show that we are an open, inclusive, welcoming people. Dear House, Adapting to this, the amendment of the Company Tax and dividend Tax Act and the Act I of 2004 on Sport can create the possibility for companies to provide support from their business results to the Olympic tender of the City Council and the MOB. The legislative amendment may provide the resources that the non-profit company responsible for writing the tender may need. In view of the above, the bill before us provides for a new tax incentive system, more specifically: a new corporate tax relief. Under the new aid scheme, corporate tax entities may grant aid and benefits to the non-profit company responsible for carrying out the Olympic tender to support the costs incurred in connection with the Olympic tender, on the basis of grants and contracts, without any repayment obligation, for which support taxpayers will be entitled to tax relief. The tax relief shall be made available on the basis of an aid certificate issued by the beneficiary responsible for the tender. It is proposed that the tax relief may be applied from the tax year of the aid and subsequent tax years, but last from the tax year ending in the sixth calendar year following the calendar year of the aid. The tax advantage that can be realised is equal to the rate that can be achieved in the case of sport and culture support under the legislation in force. It is an important limit that the combined value of the aid certificates issued by the company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender for 2016 and 2017 should not exceed HUF 19 billion and the funds collected but not used must be paid into the central budget by 31 December 2018. We are sure that this proposal will make taxpayers interested and will encourage socio-economic cooperation that can make a major contribution to the success of the Olympic tender and, ultimately, to Hungary's ability to organise an Olympic Olympics. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-16-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I have no intention of offending either my fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, or the Secretary of State, but allow me to express my shock at the fact that this is supposed to be a priority project to organise an Olympics in Hungary in 2024, which is supposed to be a very important issue for the government, and yet, at the moment, I am confronted with the fact that there is no single Fidesz sports politician in this room. The Secretary of State for Sport has not respected the House by taking part in this debate, and I must say that even the MSZP, which does not support the settlement of the Olympics, is present at the moment with a sports politician, who, I imagine, will tell his thoughts. So it's that important to settle the Olympics? Because if the application is so important and the application is so important that the Secretary of State talks economically about what he sees and then we can hear the same from the Fidesz Member almost word for word, then it is not worth arguing about it. [[György Balla: That's right!]] I mean, right now, we're supposed to be discussing sports issues. I will ask you, and please be kind, someone will tell me then what conditions should be provided for the application; what stages of the application are there. Tell me why you need this money, the 19 billion forints we're talking about right now, what this will translate into. With what deadlines, what dates and on what basis will the International Olympic Committee decide to win the Olympics? I'm sure they won't be able to answer it, and that's not a problem anyway, so it's not a reproach to you who are sitting here, because as a sports politician, you can't be aware of the regulations that apply even to the application. That is why it is a problem that neither the Secretary of State nor any Fidesz politician is supposed to be on such an important issue, when we would decide on 19 billion forints, not in the room. So we can't argue about this; I will try to tell you what these funds could be used for, and I will try to ask questions about it, and then we will see if we can get answers to them. We supported the summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Budapest in 2024 according to Jobbik Hungary Movement, and we believe that this is an opportunity that can have a significant positive impact on our country, both economically and socially. In our view, we must make use of this opportunity, because our primary task is to do everything in our power to turn our country's fate to the better, to improve its reputation. The development of the tender for the summer Olympic Games, as well as the promotion of sports diplomacy, are essential for success, and therefore, in our opinion, the necessary resources must also be provided for preparing and compiling the tender. But the submission of a tender is only a small part of the efforts to obtain the right to organise, as the examiners will examine several circumstances that are not part of the tender material, regardless of the materials we submit. In the case of Hungary, such external circumstances are the organisation of the 2017 World Water Championship, the result and experience of which have a significant impact on decision-makers. I mean, we could argue about sports issues here, and the competition will have 3-4 significant legs, which we have to do. This will also be how we will be able to organise the 2017 World Water Championship, which will be in Hungary a month and a half before the decision. This is a huge sports diplomacy opportunity for Hungary; if we organize a good water club here and they are satisfied with it, then it will in all likelihood strengthen our options for the NOB members who will have the opportunity to vote for us in the competition. Another very important factor in the evaluation of the tender is the opinion of the director and the population of the country, which will be assessed by the International Olympic Committee itself, with the involvement of independent experts, in order to ensure that the population supports the settlement of an Olympics. So this is why we could argue, let's say, with the left-wing liberal position, who keep saying, especially the liberals, that a referendum should be held here in Hungary on how many people support the Olympics. It is not important to hold a referendum at all. We consider it important to ask people's opinions on all important issues, such as the settlement of the Olympics, but the International Olympic Committee will do so with a fully independent assessment. And in the event that the Olympic competition in Hungary, the Olympics, will not have the right support, this will be a very serious issue of focus: we will not have the chance to submit any good tenders, any sports diplomacy plans, there will be no chance if there is no public support to win the Olympic tender. We could argue about that, but we don't really know that much. Therefore, when preparing the proposal, attention should also be paid to ensuring that stakeholders and the general public are adequately informed of the expected benefits and consequences. So the task is diverse. If we do not provide proper information to society, we cannot expect social support, which is why it would be important for everything to be out in the open. So we are talking about a multifaceted task, and success requires coordinated and persistent work of dozens of professionals. Let us look specifically at the presentation of what the government is asking of this House right now. They are asking us to extend their Tao tax relief system to the Olympic tender in recent years and thus create a source of resources to carry out the tasks. [[11.20]] The Tao support system has received many criticisms, mainly due to its lack of transparency. Here we are constantly - who are in sports and are trying to do for sport - we are confronted with the duality that the Tao system itself is otherwise useful and good for sport, so it is really eligible, but the amount of abuse we have seen in the Tao system over the past years is the lack of control that you have created and do not control normally, but that is quite a reverse thing. Here, you always have a dilemma about what is good for Hungary, if you hit the Tao, precisely because of abuse, or for the sake of sport - because sports use the tao discount - we let the tao stay, and we do not want to see a similar one here in the Olympics. The proposal does not mention a single word about the specific use of the funds created by tax incentives, and in general it will be used by the recently formed Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. I would tell you if there were sports politicians here, and we could argue with them that it would be understandable, because there are expenditures here at the moment that cannot be planned in advance. What kind of expenses can you think of? For example, whether the marketing plan is ready. It's not ready. But are we behind him? We're not out of time. Do we have the brand, the design of the brand in connection with the Olympics, the image we need to be able to start? It's not ready yet. Are we behind? We're not behind on it. Should we attend, say, sports conventions, major sports conventions, where we can carry out sports diplomacy? Yeah, we should, but I'm guessing since there aren't any politicians here, we couldn't argue about what convention it's worth to attend, say, SportAcord, which will now be in April in Lausanne or another sports convention, which will also be in Lausanne in November. These are important issues that should be addressed here in principle in this debate. Without knowing the actual costs of preparing the proposal, it is virtually impossible to control the resources used for the task. The issue of the Olympics is a matter for the whole country, and therefore it is important and important for the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Because of the importance of the case, it is therefore important that both preparation and execution take place in a transparent, non-abuse manner, but unfortunately, the current institutional and regulatory structure does not contain any guarantee elements. The extension of the Tao support system to the Olympic tender is likely to have the effect of reducing the rate of support offered in other sectors, so the question is how it will affect sport, the whole of Hungarian sport. After all, Hungarian sports will in principle cost HUF 19 billion in these two years. I'm guessing this will be divided, as planned. I would particularly like to point out that the Government Decision 1962/2015, which induces this proposal, already provides for the resources related to the preparation of the proposal. According to the Government's decision, the company responsible for the operation. The Ministry of National Development would receive HUF 15 billion of net money. This would seem to be the case, they provided that they would receive HUF 9.5 billion in 2016 and HUF 9.5 billion in 2017. The question here is that there were resources to finance additional tasks in connection with the Olympic tender, this was once an additional HUF 300 million for the operational support of the Centre for Government Investments, and a HUF 200-200 million for the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Municipality of Budapest. I'm guessing this is nonprofit. It was the capital needed to create it, which could be covered by this HUF 400 million. The possibility of offering tao subsidies should be created under the Government Decision in order to reduce all or part of the necessary budgetary resources. Thus, according to the government's decision, the government has already taken action on resources and now intends to spend up to HUF 19 billion on the funds. I would like to ask my fellow Members, this is an economic issue, and I think I can answer that, if the Government has made a decision in the Government decision and has already decided from which chapter it is necessary to raise the necessary money, then what is the need to extend the Tao subsidies. Why wasn't it right as you decided? Why did you have to cross the lake? Maybe it's because if we were to cover the budget directly, it would be a much bigger audit, couldn't it? I don't know, I would like to have an answer to that, just as I would like to know that this is not going to be a double financing, so that you will give me 19 billion forints once - I hope not, but I will ask this as a rhetorical question - and you could still collect 19 billion forints from the Tao, because it is also a very, very important question in my opinion. The other thing is, if these money comes in and they don't spend it all, then under what title it's going to go back into the budget. After all, we have heard that it is necessary to pay back, and we have also raised this because of various discussions, what if there is any money left; this would also be a very important issue here as well as non-profit. of the way it works. In my view, the issue of the Olympic tender can only be financed in a clear and transparent way. The government decided on the provision of funds in December 2015, so I doubt that the use of Tao grants for this purpose is justified. It is irresponsible to assign resources to the task without appropriate monitoring and control mechanisms. Transparency and purpose-boundness are guarantees that the money allocated to the task will actually be spent in order to carry out the task. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as I said, supports the 2024 Olympic tender. We will support it as long as we do not encounter cases that can be abused, because this Olympics is a great opportunity. We could even say that it would be worth even 19 billion to launch a global campaign that could not otherwise be mentioned in 19 billion together with cities that really stimulate tourism, which can really influence the image of our country, our country's image in a very positive direction, but we support this only if there is strict control and transparent spending of money. We have our doubts here at the moment, which is why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, especially with no answers during the debate, will not be able to support the bill, we will abstain from voting the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-02-16-57	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. The speakers before me have already presented in detail the essential elements of the bill on corporate tax, dividend tax and the amendment of the law on sport. Therefore, in my speech, I would just like to emphasise the government's commitment to sport and the Olympics, and I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to join forces on the Olympics. In 2010, as the Orbán government came to power, new impulses were given to Hungarian sports, and the European Commission's approval introduced the visual team sport support system in 2011, which became known as tao. In 2011, National Sport chose this system, the Tao as the man of the year. During the first four support periods of the Tao from 2011 to 15 years, more than 260 billion HUF programmes were approved for the five visual team sports and the MOB. The current legislative amendment allows economic organisations to make targeted offerings on the costs incurred in connection with the Olympic tender, after which support taxpayers will be entitled to a benefit and tax relief. [[11.30]] We are confident that this proposal will also make taxpayers interested in a socio-economic cooperation that can greatly contribute to the success of the Olympic tender. Therefore, KDNP's position in principle on the bill is quite clear: we can support any amendments that will help Hungary, help the company responsible for the implementation of the Olympic tender, so that the Olympic tender can succeed, and Hungary and Budapest can organise the 2024 Olympics. We believe that the bill before us serves this purpose, and we can support it from this principle. Let me have two brief thoughts. One is that we consider the settlement of the Olympics to be a national issue within Parliament and outside Parliament to be very important and particularly welcome. This is important precisely because so far we have not made it a party political issue, and so the Hungarian people are not divided on this issue, which is likely to help the Olympic tender to succeed, and this proposal can receive the right social support. The other thought is worth going back to 2010. In 2010 Hungary was actually bankrupt. The second Orbán government was able to restore the country from bankruptcy [[Dr. István Józsa: It's not true!]] [[Dr. István Józsa: It's not true!]] Tugging him and moving the country in the right direction. (Dr. István Józsa: It's not true!) Today we are in a position to have a realistic chance of organizing an Olympics in 2024. Hungary has been stable since 2014, after four years of repairing the country's finances. Our task is to organize civil Hungary after the end of the period of post-communism. This is one of the most important tasks of our generation. And in this task, the Olympic tender actually occupies a symbolic place, because if we can make this Olympic tender a success, then this is one of the most important symbolic issues of civil Hungary's equipment, if not the most important. That is why we believe it is important to seize every means to succeed in this Olympic tender. This bill, which is before us, serves this purpose. The opposition concerns that we have heard from our better fellow Members, we understand, but I believe that it is the company itself. it works in a transparent manner and will be able to account for all the forints provided to them by tax forints or tao. So for our part, we support the bill and ask the opposition parties to join it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-16-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-16-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to Congressman István Hollik's comment, let me make one zero comment. You know, if it's not party politics, then I don't know how civil Hungary's equipment comes here. I hope we have a chair in that civil Hungary. [[István Hollik: Exactly... Intercom from the benches of Fidesz: To be exact...]] I think it would be worth refraining from this type of ideological approach. [[István Hollik will spread his arms.]] At least if it's true that it's a national case. I also miss it, as my better fellow Member missed the sports politicians, because indeed, when I saw this bill, or at least its reputation, that we are going to talk about the Tao in the House, I am pleased, I confess. After all, as has already been said here in the debate, as a sports-politicist and opposition, we are always faced with this duality, that, on the one hand, we are pleased to see that a very large amount of resources are actually coming into Hungarian sports on the basis of Taós support, but you can always hear the problems related to the lack of transparency and, in many cases, the not-so-reasonable method of use. In many cases, although it may sound strange, a lot of money is likely to cause problems in a sport as well as a lack of resources if a particular sport is not sufficiently prepared for it. So in Hungarian: this would have been a good time or a good time, in my opinion, to talk about what the problems with this Taós system are. And since this current system is running out in 2017, perhaps it would also have given us an opportunity to rethink the direction in which we might need to expand, to improve this form of support, which I, for my part, consider useful in any way, regardless of the problems and problems with the use. On this point, my fellow Member from Fidesz said that this is a very transparent system and that companies decide where to give the money themselves. I'd argue with that statement. I also think that it is less transparent and that I think that these resources can be used in a rather controlled way, because if they were not, it would probably not be football that would have received the biggest subsidies in the past period, because this is the Prime Minister's favorite sport, and perhaps, in the obvious way, the companies are going in this direction. Indeed, a particular problem for us is that it is a huge amount of money that we are deciding on now, 19 billion forints. They want to spend this resource in advance or award it to something we don't even know what they're going to use it for. Perhaps today was the day of the meeting of the organising committee on water World Championships, and the budget is not yet available for the event in 2017. In the meantime, they want to give $19 billion to something we don't know exactly what they're going to spend it on. So it would have been a good thing if, in addition to saying that I would like to devote these resources to preparing the Olympics, they would have said a little more specifically what they would spend it on, since transparency has been mentioned so many times, and rightly that this is important in any way, not just for an Olympic tender, but for any state resource. And indeed, it is also a cause of concern that, in the Olympic competition, we may be able to agree on this, there is only one thing more important about sport, the Olympic success, because we can have an Olympic Olympic Olympics, but it is more important that Hungarian athletes are well represented, not only in the later Olympics, but also in the current Olympics. Therefore, the concern may indeed arise that this decision will absorb the resources from other sports, and this may also affect the effectiveness of Hungarian sport in the long term. Therefore, we say that, in this form, this proposal cannot be supported. It is not precisely because my group or my party has decided not to support the Olympics itself, because the majority think that these resources could be spent more usefully - my fellow Member Józsa will certainly talk more about them - but that it is not possible to support this current initiative or amendment of the law on our part because we do not know how, what they want to spend these resources on, and it can cause serious problems in the next period for many other sports worth. However, I would like to ask the Government, the Secretary of State, when the next Tao II. The system will be negotiated in the government, so let us consult sports associations, sports associations, on the direction in which this Tao should be amended and expanded in a given case. I would like to point out one thing to the Secretary of State: these sports associations, since the current Tao system has not provided resources for the operation of sports associations in recent years. A lot of other things, yes, but since these funds come to associations through sports associations, this causes a lot of problems in addition to the many positive things. Therefore, I would like to point out one aspect to you in this debate, too, that when you think about the new Tao system, sports associations should also have some form of thinking and take action or modify the system so that the associations can directly obtain funds from it. Overall, therefore, in this form, for reasons of transparency and much more, the Socialist Party Group will not support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2016-02-16-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This presentation could be heartwarming, because it's a heartwarming thing to prepare for an Olympics. It's almost like preparing for marriage in young people's lives. Fifty percent already have it; the groom, the organizing committee, would like Hungary to succeed in the Olympic competition. [[11.40]] At the same time, if we take a closer look at this Olympic case - besides who does not want Hungary to have an Olympics - there is a long way to go. So if I bring the wedding example, then a young man must grow up to be able to make a proposal, grow up to it in infrastructure and sports, although it is no doubt the excellent result of the main Hungarian athletes in the past period, but let's say that in order to settle an Olympics, you should be able to set up a team in the fullness of sports, because this is one of the special rights of the country organizing the Olympics to start its athletes in each sport without qualification. Now think, fellow Members, what kind of country image reinforcement is it if, let us say, Hungary does not start half of the sports, because there is no such prepared level of sport at this stage, or if it starts them, they may not achieve an impressive result. So, from a professional point of view, from a sports professional point of view, much remains to be done, but what I would like to say is basically infrastructure development. In Budapest, some 3,000 billion of infrastructure development is needed in order to be physically fit to host the Olympics at all. We need bridges, we need facilities, we need an Olympic village that may later be suitable for housing, which can significantly increase both the housing supply and possibly the simpler offer of hotels, but at present, in an organisation, in a set-up that is necessary for the conduct of an Olympics, it is not available. We also need to talk about Budapest transport. So, when the government is struggling and instead of funding public transport in Budapest, which is very ripe for a renewal both in terms of motor vehicles and in terms of background infrastructure, this should be done for an Olympics, this preparatory study, which PriceWaterhouseCoopers has prepared, does not quite deal with them, says that this Olympics can be settled with some HUF 800 billion in expenditure. This is what is very, very doubtful, because why the nation wants the Olympics is the good feeling, the pride for which the Budapesters especially want, the improvements without which there is no Olympics, but there is a small problem with the timing, in this case, the fact that we are writing 2016. By 2024 to make investments that are not actually planned, but perhaps there is a list of them, it is not certain that they will meet with everyone's agreement, because they have not actually been discussed, so the remaining eight years with the current resources of the country, which, I say, would take thousands of billions, seems a little unrealistic. I do not want to confront the issue of the Olympics now deliberately against the problems of teachers, the disastrous situation of the school system or the impossible working conditions of health workers, I do not want to bring it into line with the poverty of the workers, that there is no normal livelihood in Hungary, or that 4 million people do not reach the minimum living conditions, so Hungary is an extremely poor country, so to take on an Olympic arrangement, and then perhaps Hungary will actually succeed. In 2003, I had the pleasure of attending an EU conference in Athens in spring, so it was a long time before the opening of the Olympics, then everything was turned upside down, tram tracks were built, overpasses were built, stadiums were in semi-finished condition, the Olympic village was in semi-finished condition. For the remaining one year, half of Europe worked in Athens, cost what it costs, everything was built with incredible expenses, because the Olympics are not just a matter of national affairs, but of the whole world's sports life. They've done it with tremendous expense, they've put themselves in incredible debt, and then we'll see how it turned out. I don't want to project this. I am sure that Hungary is in a much stronger position than I would like to inform you that in 2010, when you took over the government, Hungary was not in economic bankruptcy. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He was bankrupt, not bankrupt.]] The two quarters behind us were growing and the budget was consolidated. You are happy to lie about this story, so much so that you were willing to break down the exchange rate of the forint, who knows with what ulterior motive in the summer of 2010, in the context of the ominous Kósa-Sijjártó speeches, which of course was good for you, the deterioration of the forint price for the export companies, but not for the foreign exchange lenders. So I would like you to be credible to economic professionals, and investment is decided by serious economic experts, so it would be better if you looked at 2010 with a realistic view and looked at the issue of preparing the Olympics in the same way. The only technical preparatory material currently available in this context is PriceWaterhouseCoopers' study, the etaph you have priced in 19 billion, planned for HUF 10 billion. So it is not really possible to see the reason why this 10 billion has increased to 19 in the course of the proposals, nor can it really be understood why it is being withdrawn from sports subsidies. It is highly debatable that tao is the best method for sport funding. There are many points in this which makes it questionable that it would probably be clearer if companies, as provided for by the Tax Act, pay corporate tax to the central budget, and then, within the framework of the central budget, the parliament decides on such a sports support line, and then, normally, sports subsidies are used in a way that is visible under the law of the State Audit Office. On the other hand, you have introduced the famous Tao I system, and now you are thinking about the Tao II system. on the system, which seems to make it voluntary for businesses to voluntarily support sports clubs, to support the construction of stadiums. But what you need to see is that if this money wasn't spent on sports subsidies, it would be paid to the IRS every penny, every penny, every penny. So this is strictly public money in this regard, even if you try to forget it. In substance, the development of Hungary is currently calling into question whether it can cope with an Olympic organisation. There are tensions in Hungarian society that would be even more intense with such an extraordinary effort. There is a fear that there will be even less money for education, even less money for health care and general public development. Practically, the country's resources would be unilaterally transferred to the Olympics. These concerns, I think, can be expressed not only here in the Hungarian Parliament. The decision makers who are responsible for whether a state can organise this extraordinary sporting event in the world, like the Olympics, are likely to carry out this investigation more thoroughly than we have the opportunity to do here in Parliament. [[11.50]] At the same time, 19 billion are now less transparent programmes for Parliament to approve, which, in our opinion, does not belong to sound decisions, which would require studies, programme studies that the rapporteur did not attach to this work, and if athletes realize - the sports community - that their money for sport will be reduced by 19 billion, they may not be so enthusiastic. So, as a result of this, the fundamentally heartwarming idea that Hungary should organise an Olympics is, in our opinion, impossible to bring closer, would require much more serious work and much stricter management. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2016-02-16-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-63	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. I am looking and searching for pro-government politicians working intensively on sport policy within the walls of Parliament. I didn't think much of it, especially on the part of the government. Among Parliament's walls, the practice of discussing any subject has become commonplace, when the relevant policy makers do not really participate in Parliament's meetings. I do not think that this is a good thing, that this is normal, even because a substantive debate can obviously be held if those members of the government who deal with sport policy participate intensively in the debate in Parliament, not only by listening to them not only to their closing thoughts about the summary, but also by arguing, where appropriate, with the proposals of Members sitting in opposition benches. Just in the previous minutes, my fellow Member Józsa has been asking many questions, for which it would be reasonable to expect that it should be heard from the pro-government benches, but, most importantly, from the government, by ministers of state or by a minister who is exercising supervision. I see that, as it has been in the course of the previous discussion of other subjects, this has been cancelled, this will now be repeated again, it will be strengthened, and we are on the path that we have always been on in the last six years, unfortunately, that you, I can say, are not interested in what Members are talking about in the benches of the opposition. Under the law, corporate tax entities in the present case may provide support to cover costs incurred in connection with the submission of the Olympic tender through the enforcement of the Tao tax benefit. In order to justify the tax relief, it is the Municipality of Budapest and the non-profit company jointly owned by the MOB who is entitled. It is noted that in the year 2016-17 this could reach a maximum of HUF 19 billion, if more, it will be transferred to the central budget by January 2018. I think that the strengthening of the central budget should not be done in this form, i.e. that corporate tax entities support something in the form of tax relief, and then, if this subsidy reaches a certain threshold, it will cost the central budget. The problem is that not now and following the adoption of this law, but the clarity of the use of tax incentives has been quite problematic. Even because those who make use of these benefits have, in many cases, referred to the fact that these funds are not public funds in the past. Well, how the hell wouldn't there be public money when they're due to a tax credit? ! If and if it were not for that purpose, it would obviously have been the revenue of the budget. Of course there are public funds. According to my judgment, what is going on in this regard is nothing more than legitimizing scoundrelry. Let us consider some examples of what torsos have in mind in this regard. As far as the Tao is concerned, you have seen, read, collected how, and how, for example, Felcsút has been implemented, how, and how, he has received subsidies. The other day, I read news about the case that was for 11 billion forints for a football player. You know, it was about the fact that Felcsút has people from various NB I teams, and there are football players from abroad. This is the piss-up team today with a self-educated player. 11 billion forints from the Tao not only for the financing of the team, but also for, say, the construction of a stadium, and then, perhaps, this was mentioned by my fellow Member, the Tao II. within the framework of the financing of renovations, you know, this is the magnitude of money that I can compare to anything, as if in terms of a Szerencs, Edelény - this is a city of ten thousand persons - from the infant to the old man, everyone has a sum of one million HUF. Or, you know, this is the amount of money, which is, if you look at the amount of operating budget support for civil society organisations in 2016, which, if my memories do not cheat, is HUF 2 billion 190 million, so it is virtually five times that overall. In English, I want to say that it is worth comparing the scale of the resources devoted to performing certain tasks with each other. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] 2017. CHAPTER VI After 30 months, in the spirit of this draft law, it will also be possible and possible to support reinforcements and the sustainability of infrastructure. First they built the stadiums, then these stadiums are legally amortised, destroyed, not random, that in this sense there is a need to provide resources for their maintenance, renovation and much more, and because they consume sizes that, let's say, cannot be guaranteed from local budgets, they now figure out that the Tao II is the one. the financing of this maintenance-renewal cost will also be possible within the framework of this. Support for supplies is understandable to me, even acceptable, and eligible. But, you know, when we talk about the things about the Olympics here, you can also think about what can be in the priority line at the beginning, what is more important, about the organisation of an Olympics or about increasing the effectiveness of participating in the Olympics as much as possible. After all, if this money of 19 billion HUF is displayed on this target area, let us say, it is likely to be missing somewhere else, and it is likely that it will be there, which is linked to sport, especially on the surface that may put into question the effectiveness of participation in the Olympics. I don't want to judge in this regard, no, I just want to say that it is worth considering these questions. It is also worth considering what I said earlier, that, in relation to Felcsút, in a given year, funds over HUF 2 billion will be reorganized and transferred to Tao, while I also have to add that there are small towns that are developing, not with NB I teams, such as Kisvárda, Minister Seszták, which, if my monuments are not cheating, has received HUF 1 billion and 260 million in the last year. [[12.00]] It seems to me that there is a close correlation between the strength of the government's people or the strength of the government's people in their positions, and in this context, Tao money is practically related to these people. I don't think this is right, and it's not right. It is not good just because any sport is based on it, and the efficiency and performance of sports are not necessarily formed and shaped depending on the seat of the government of which city, the strong man of the settlement, is the politician of the government. What was said only at the level of the mention, I would like to open it with a few thoughts, just in order to think about it. When, in the last six years, you have withdrawn hundreds of billion-dollar funds from the education scene each year, when, in terms of health care, the funds that are less money than, say, six years ago are 300 000 million forints; when, in the social sphere, when there are not steps forward, but backwards, mainly in terms of the lack of salary increases, the processes that are being stimulated in this respect are again the subject of consideration. Personally, I'm a sports-loving and sports-supporting person, myself and myself, practicing it. But in my judgment, there are always important and important issues in the priority line. I would like not to vote against sports or against the Olympics, but I would like to emphasise that you, who govern, should act and exercise your existing power within the group of your own governing party, at least with such responsibility, at least with the same level of combat, at least with the same kind of devotion, as regards the issues I have just mentioned, and with the same kind of devotion within the group of your own governing party, simply because, clearly, what is in this country today in the sense of social policy, whether we are talking about health, education, social policy or the issue of access to the stage of poverty, there would be at least as much to be done there. And, you know, the problem is that there are not too many of you here in Parliament to enforce this issue, but when we talk about the issues we just mentioned, they are not even willing to take part in Parliament's debates. So, to sum up the question, I would like to put it this way: when, through the Tao, with regard to corporate tax benefits, they think about installing funds of this magnitude of HUF 19 billion somewhere and providing for the adoption of the law, they should always be aware that, unfortunately, there are still a few other issues in this country that affect people's everyday life, which make it difficult or cripple people's everyday lives, and that they would also have to do so. What I see and experience is that they are not rushing as they should be, and unfortunately this is not suffering one, ten, or hundreds of thousands of people, but millions of these tens of millions of people who are living in our country. [[To intervene:]] In this way, as my fellow Member says behind my back, we can hardly use this number of ten million in this regard, as we are already below it, while you are trying to keep up with all kinds of means by keeping up with the fact that the number of people living in Hungary will not decrease. Unfortunately, I must say that this is a failure of their activities, even because the economic policy they are pursuing makes a major contribution to the growing number of people, unfortunately, leaving this country. You know, the 600 thousand people who have left the country in the last six years, who you consider to be statistical subjects when you make a statement of employment data, because it is 120 to 140 thousand of them who, by the way, is out there doing their work in other countries, unfortunately, thanks to you, and through Hungarian statistics, that seems to increase the number of Hungarian employees. But I'm not going in this direction. My last sentence, once again, is that systems should be put in place that make the traceability of money transparent and something that is in the interest of this society and not of some. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-02-16-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I can only agree on one thing with my socialist fellow Members, who are sitting in this Chamber, that there is a lack of Fidesz sports politicians, so now I, as I have said, am not going to support this legislative proposal, because we will abstain, but perhaps answer to the sports-professional questions that have been raised here. I can't argue with Attila Mesterházy, because Attila Mesterházy really approached the questions from a sports professional point of view, István Józsa is no longer so close, because István Józsa could hear sentences István Józsa, which I would like to reject, because István Józsa tried to express all this somehow in the 2024 Olympics, if we can't achieve it here in the qualifying system to create a normal team, so István Józsa said something about being small. I would like to tell him that he knows that Hungary can, in my opinion, also be called an Olympic great power. After all, such a small country as Hungary has achieved huge success in the history of the Olympics with our present number of souls. To say just one song, the 480 summer Olympic medals that we have, we are the most effective nation who has not yet been able to hold an Olympics, and there are not so many countries who could have directed, so I say that being the most effective of all countries in the world is not such a bad situation. Then I would also tell him - but he is no longer here - that he was also Hungarian at the establishment of the International Olympic Committee, because let us remember Dr. Ferenc Kemény, who was among the founders and was there at the establishment of the International Olympic Committee. We could also say that we almost had an Olympics once, because Hungary won the right to settle the Olympics in 1920, but as the loser of the First World War, it was taken from us, and it was staged in Antwerp, so it might be nice to organise an Olympics. Then István Józsa also said that the Olympics are unrealistic for Hungary. In my opinion, if someone thinks about it, it is not unrealistic at all; because if we really plan and organise it in a normal and planned manner and in a really clear and transparent way, and this will be in line with the infrastructure developments that we have to do by 2024, then I do not find it unrealistic for Hungary to organise an Olympics, because if we thought it was unrealistic, they would not support it, or even the tender. The application is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and it believes that we can win this competition because Hungary is, in our opinion, able to organise this Olympics if the International Olympic Committee gives us the settlement of this. What István Józsa also mentioned was the Greek example: indeed, in the case of Greece, if we look at the Olympics, Greece will jump far from this in a negative sense of the effects of their Olympics. [[12.10]] And a smart man learns from the example of others and does not make the mistakes that we say they may have made in Greece. So the Olympics with the worst indicators should not be a constant example. And indeed, as you said, in the background material of PwC, it was 10,5 billion forints, when those background studies came out for the first time, stating that this was supposed to be the price. We have already said that, in our opinion, it is an underestimated amount, because the amount we are talking about is 19 billion forints, which is exactly the same as the calculated amount of Paris that they want to spend on the tender. I don't think a successful tender can be made with less than that. But if we do it, it's very good, and here I connect to Nándor Gúr that he said that if and more than 19 billion forints, we have to pay back. Well, that's not true, because it can't be more than 19 billion, but we just hope we can solve it with less than 19 billion forints, and then pay it back to the budget. But I agree with Nándor Gúr that this is indeed public money. So Tao is public money. Because just because these companies, these profitable companies don't pay their taxes, they don't get their taxes in the budget, it's the same public money from then on, because there's only so much difference that they didn't get in. That is why I do not understand it, and that is why I would like the Secretary of State to respond to why the funding has been changed. So why was it not good that the Olympic tender was actually supported by HUF 9.5 billion in the items envisaged by the Ministry of National Economy, 2016 and 17 as public money, i.e. funding the Olympic tender? I mean, they're both public money, but I feel that maybe the reason, in the background, is that the Tao really isn't as controllable as if this amount were to appear directly in the budget. Then I also have a question, which would be good, because the problem is that you usually answer as a result of the debate, when the debate is closed, and we cannot argue, and we cannot ask any more questions, but it would be good if Mr Secretary of State could answer these economic questions, so I say once again that I am not waiting for sports questions, but only economic questions, what happens until the first money comes from the tao money to Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. So until then, this company should work somehow, until then, it will have expenses! In the meantime, will it be financed from the budget, so what is included in the government decision? 'Cause then there's another question: if it's financed from the budget by then, there's two options. One is that when the tao money comes in, this is repaid by the nonprofit company, and the other option is that it does not pay back, the HUF 19 billion framework remains the same for which it can collect taos, but we are talking about more money than HUF 19 billion. So it would be nice to clarify what's going on here, what's going on, whether it's economically, because legally, financially, technically, how this is going to work, or how you imagine it. And what I would like to hear from you, and perhaps that would be the most important thing, with what account, with what kind of control, with what kind of monitoring they intend to monitor the work of this nonprofit company. So it would not be good if there were checks and I did not want to deviate from the subject, but I must mention that there are noble goals and there are goals that need to be accepted. Such a goal, for example, is, say, the issue of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence, to which we really need to sacrifice. You made a sacrifice, and you set a five billion forints budget, and then you gave 1.2 billion forints to the ORÖ, and then this money disappeared, and nothing came of it. So, when such examples are in front of us, it would be very important that the government, or the Ministry, should be present on a monthly, two-month or permanent basis, so that it is not even possible for anyone to think that if we donate public money for a noble purpose, they will try to use it differently, and they will try to turn these public funds into something else, which the government has decided to support, let us say, a number of opposition parties, or which the population of Hungary and the Hungarian people feel is an important goal. So I would like to have answers to these questions, if possible, before the debate is concluded, that, if there is any question that we may still have, we can ask. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-66	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér in a 15-minute time frame, Fidesz. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes her place as notary.]]
u2016-02-16-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There was a lack of debate between those in the opposite direction and those in the opposite direction, which is why I asked for the floor. I was a member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee during the governance of the MSZP myself and led a sports association. That's how I know it's not easy to talk about sports as an MSZP. The only problem the MSZP had in the Hungarian Olympic Committee was how to replace Pál Schmitt, otherwise it didn't provide a source, we can remember an inaccessible sports funding; sports associations were sorely hungry for money, drifted to the limit of inability, and I don't remember much or hardly any infrastructure development. They are what they were in the most expensive PPP construction ever. Thus, the country had no dream, no desire for international competition, no desire to protect the health of children, no further expansion of sports associations, no recreational sport. Simply a country with a sad, otherwise beautiful, wonderful and proud sports past began to believe itself to give up sport calmly, because during the eight years of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, an amazing, terrible, sad picture was drawn in front of us. Also today, Nándor Gúr talked for two minutes about why we are few in Parliament. I was looking at it. I was timing it. He used 15 percent of his time frame to talk about those present or those not present. The law itself didn't come up. He spoke about this in a fraction of his 15-minute speech - but we are used to it - and in this fraction, perhaps half a minute or a minute, the picture of the very gloomy, pessimist, broken-down country, such as Nándor Gúr's country picture, was drawn. Now we understand that Nándor Gúr would like such a picture of the country, please, do not force it on us, because we are in a more optimistic position. We are about to take the liberty today, compared to bankruptcy six years ago, to even undertake an Olympic event, which means that for a month we would be the capital of the world. Small faith comes through the speeches in the MSZP, but they are László Kovács, let us dare to be small! They grew up on his philosophy, absorbed it, socialized, unable to think big, unable to weave dreams. You're also here to find out whether the Tao is public money or not, they're stuck here; yes, in a sense it's public money. In his birth, we also said that the developed Western world, which we envy sports support systems, sponsorships, cannot be formed from a very difficult economy in Hungary from one moment to the next, where sports and the economy have not yet found themselves. The Tao was designed to be a temporary transfer when the players in the economy found each other with the players in the sport. I'll tell you what the concept is, because I don't feel understood; I'm trying to help you understand. A single channel funding through the Hungarian Olympic Committee has made the entire funding of sport transparent, unlike what you have done. That theft, the lying, the disappearance of the money. Compared to this, a concept that attempts to bring international competitions to Hungary is trying to speak daily, to outline before us. [[12.20]] We have brought more than 30 international competitions and bring them to Hungary again this year. One of the important stages of this is obviously the upcoming water world. Infrastructure development. As much as it hurts, and I'd like to draw a picture of a stadium country about a socially insensitive government building a stadium instead of buying an incubator, I'd like to say that stadiums are also about children, about the possibility of ascension. You obviously want to draw a picture of only rich, well-paid athletes playing sports in stadiums. That's not true either. As much as they're fighting for this picture, it's obviously a liar. The scenes of cultural events and the scenes of community events are the stadiums. It is also important to be aware that in the 21st century it is very difficult to involve young people in sport, everyday sport, leisure sports or even competition without infrastructure. The results of these five-year-olds - you do not talk about it, you are deeply silent about it - are more than 100,000 more children now playing sports in Hungary on the supply line. Imagine if your government had remained, then 100,000 - the exact number I don't have now, Mr. Secretary of State might be able to help - wouldn't play sports, on the other hand. This is public health. It is the cheapest health funding, I might say, because if the child becomes healthy, becomes a healthy adult, then there is no need to spend it in the healthcare system. I could say the idiot understands that. Somehow he's missing out on your communication that sports have a pull that can trigger explosive social and economic changes. What am I talking about? A series of books - sorry to make a short detour now - were published in a series of studies showing that the gloomy, pessimistic, gloomy Germany after the World War could not recover economically until the golden team in Bern had been beaten. As the Germans beat us in the World Championship Finals, they also calculate Germany's economic rise. Something like that could benefit the Olympics. If you would like to put this clearly in addition to the numbers as a deficit plant, a deficit enterprise that takes money away from community services, socially sensitive areas, then I would like to say that the Olympics can first be organised well, it can be organised in such a way that there is no deficit, but in any case it is likely to have an impact on the country image, on the global market, and so on and so on. Indeed, the Olympics - if we have turned the Tao Law into an Olympic law here during the debate - let us say, the way to the rise of the country. In many countries, the Olympics have shown that it can be a significant station or a stepping stone. The end of a word is a hundred, it is not easy to speak as MSZP on this subject. Then comes Nándor Gúr, who knows everything, including sports and the Olympics. I expected the price of the Olympics to be translated at the price of the school cafeteria, because these are about the contexts in his head, and, therefore, in his speech, he insulted the farming organisations he had squandered here. I do not know why farmers who wish to serve important community and social goals beyond their own enrichment should be considered a rogue. What good is it to defile them? You know, Nándor Gúr, the thing is that you're going to think of the lake and Toponár, Kaposmérő and Kaposfüred, the villages in my constituency that are eager to get the tao money, because, by the way, during your administration, they wanted to close the gates and doors of the sports association, they wanted to plow up the grass court, and now the fact is that, thanks to the tao money, they're opening new orbits, they're handing over artificial grass courts, they're fixing sports lockers. Or, in the case of Tao support, I also recall that Mayor Károly Szita, in Kaposvár, in the heart of my constituency, just a week ago, handed over a new swimming pool roof that was used to replace the cover of the old swimming pool. A significant part of this came from Tao. I saw that the Kaposvár people were happy, there were hundreds of them, and no one thought of Felsú. It's one of those Gúr Nándor and socialist specialities. To conclude, I would like to say that they should dare to be a little big, try to think in perspective: what can really be good for this country, what can help socio-economic cooperation, because what we are talking about here is nothing more than a task that we are about to do in the Olympics than a real big, wide-ranging social and economic cooperation. If the Olympics don't happen, we simply join forces and start organizing, this in itself can have a very good effect on all of us. Thank you very much. I'm honored to have your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-68	Thank you, Congressman Gelencsér. Two-minute contributions, first from Congressman Nándor Gúr, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-02-16-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When my colleague Józsa spoke, he made some points that were worth thinking about. He didn't make any claims; I'm just saying that he didn't do his revelations one way or another, not on a pro or counter basis. But I think that, obviously, within the walls of Parliament, you can think about things, and you can decide where to go. When I listen to Attila Gelencsér's words, I think - I only say them in headlines and I will explain them further - that the optimal image of a country is not only what we want to do, but also what we want to do. You dream, but in terms of actions, you always go back. You know, it's worth talking about - I'm sorry I have to go to my fellow Member. [[Attila Gelencsér: I just sit in the notary seat.]] ; Yeah, you sit up, it's different - so it's worth talking about the dreams of those who live in this country with about 4 and a half million living below the minimum living standards. These issues are interrelated, even if my fellow Member does not want them to be connected. Unfortunately, they're connected. And look, the theft, the lying, the disappearing of the money you're talking about must have come to your mind based on the events of the last six years, but you can't translate it anymore. My last sentence is in line with what he said - but I'll talk more about it - you know, stadiums and gymnasiums are a different category. Stadiums are basically not about children, but about top sports and gymnasiums and hundreds of thousands or millions of children. In order not to have to play gym class in your head, in the halls, that's why the gymnasiums are here. It should have gone in this direction instead, and it should not have been ensured that the maintenance costs of the built stadiums will be financed from Tao II. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. For two minutes, György Szilágyi's right-wing congressman will take the floor.
u2016-02-16-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I tell Attila Gelencsér that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supported the development of a single channel system, and we expected that the whole sports support system would be more transparent and transparent. Unfortunately, however, when the Tao arrived, this did not become more transparent, and it was not transparent precisely because the control system on the Tao was not sufficient, and even opened the loophole that, as long as the budget had a single channel support system, this loophole would not be open. There are a lot of places to hear, yes, that companies are asking for a refund because they're giving money. This gives us the opportunity to corruption. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to prove that these loopholes should be removed. But we'll do this at the Tao when we talk about the tao you're going to bring to the House. Then the question arose as to why there was a question of whether or not the Tao is public money. The only reason for this was that your Prime Minister, who was called Viktor Orbán, specifically, categorically denied that the stadium in Felcsút was built with public money. That's what he said. It was then that the dispute arose whether the tao is public money or not public money. Finally, it was found that the Tao was public money, so we can also say that the stadium in Felcsút was built with public money, not with donations from private companies, as the Prime Minister said at the beginning. [[12.30]] Another very important thing is why the case of Suppress arises in relation to Tao money: for one reason. 'Cause there was a year when three of the five visual team sports didn't get as much a year as they took to the top... well, I don't know, little kingdom, let's call it that. Because really, to be able to heat orbits, you need a boiler room designed by Makovecz, because it's just nice to have a village this size, the well-being of people. But that would be another topic that we're discussing, by the way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. In the next speaker, within a 15-minute time frame, Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2016-02-16-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be a little longer, but I would like to start with a correction, and I do not want to adjust my colleague Szilágyi, but I do remember that Szút got more then than four visual team sports, not three. But this is even more tragic than what you said. So it's clear that there's something distorted in this sports finance world, even if you're only here to talk about the prognosis of success. Attila Gelencsér painted a very sad picture of the development of sports infrastructure before 2010. Let me give you good examples, since this debate has taken such a more general direction. As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I should mention to you that the Miskolc race swimming pool was built before 2010, the city sports hall was renewed, the ice hall was built, and, by the way, several investments were made in the stadium in Diósgyőr, which accounted for unblessed conditions. There wasn't any lighting here, there was practically a problem with the drainage. Obviously, a major bleachers section has been built in a place where there is a real demand for quality football, where thousands, often tens of thousands of people cheer and consider nutgyőr football to be an important community organizing force. It's obviously the personal tragedy of the Miskolcs after all these years that there hasn't even been a hoof cut yet. I really hope, by the way, that you will make me a little more formal in this story, because if you really need such improvements somewhere, it's Nutmeg and Miskolc. He also said how many people are playing sports now, how the funding for mass sports and recreational sports is coming along. I have to say, it's gotten worse. It was very visible at the beginning. The financing of mass sports and leisure sports decreased significantly after 2010. Indeed, there has been an increase in the funding of some competitions, inaccessiblely in many cases, and otherwise came the tao, which had a background, let's say, from a tax point of view. After all, I always say that in terms of theatre and cinema, there was before 2010 and there is such a tax relief system now. Let's just say we agreed in 2011, when this came to the table, that we would try to make sports support transparent in some similar way or open another gate. We had two concerns. On the one hand, we see this gate too narrow. So, in our view, the highlight of the five visual team sports is not right, because, let's say, opening this up to Olympic sports or it wouldn't have been a significant extra burden for all sports, but in many places very little money matters. On the other hand, we were afraid that this system would be a cause for abuse, and, let's say, speaking well to state-owned or majority state-owned companies, these resources could also be transferred to places where this is not necessary. Now, I'm telling you, as a Nutmeg cheerleader, I was on Felcsú on Saturday. It was interesting. I got there a little sooner, looked around the settlement, and now I'm not bringing it to you by train or anything. By the way, some parts of the settlement did not remind me of anything other than parts of Abaúj-Borsod county or some of the counties of East Hungary. So most of the people here aren't rich either. The houses made me see this, and I also found a closed catering facility. So probably not a lot of people live here either, but it can be seen that a completely alien structure appeared here in a 1,600 enthusiastic villages, about the most important stadium project in Hungary. I found other interesting things in the country, but it doesn't matter now, I wouldn't bring it here. However, I say to you that, in view of my mental sensitivity, I will not mention the result of the weekend; but it is extremely important to mention that there have been several articles in the newspaper about the fact that this Academy actually received 11 billion forints of public money, and thus an NB I leading team in competition sports, whose performance at this Saturday game was actually an exhibition of an earlier academic. I don't think that's acceptable. It's completely contrary to competition neutrality. The fact that there are such audiences in Hungarian football is due, among other things, to the fact that a strong football fan is already rocking these years and saying that please, that competition neutrality is very seriously questionable - are you sure that everything in today's football will be decided on the field? Now, this is not what the proposal is about, and I just wanted to say that, when you're making another presentation like this, you want to open up new frameworks in the framework of tao discounts, or support for the Olympic tender, then you have to think about the 4-5 years that are behind us in this story. You can state your arguments, obviously in absolute value, it's a serious volume, coming into sports support today. I am just saying that in a lot of places, it is pointless investments, investments that are based on a clear fidesz political influence somewhere. Meanwhile, the small associations that they talk about are struggling for a few hundred thousand forints, and in many cases they cannot find a partner who fills up the right taoframe in this story. So this needs to be cleaned up. Presumably, when the Tao II. it's on the table, you have to make ceilings. I think we need to open the gate at the same time. There are sports in Hungary, swimming, kayak-kenu, where a fraction of these resources could really bring amazing results. It is not essential to support the Olympics, but the sports that I consider to be in the Tao system in an Olympics. So that's why we have doubts, which is why we can and should rightly think of anyone, that when we mention theft, the lack of controls - and it was weird when they said it backwards, Fidesz MEPs - I have to say that there is at least doubt in any of us as to what the fate of these resources will be. I will consider later that we will use countless amendments at Tao II - we have not made such proposals now - in order to keep this system running in a verifiable and transparent way, and we will indeed find together the ways in which this established sport infrastructure can at least be maintained, even if things have been built completely senseless in countless places. And here again, I have listed to you the investments made in Miskolc before 2010; of course, I also support the investments that truly serve the needs of mass sports and locals, the prestige investments, the completely meaningless stadiums built around the residence of the fidesz potentádok. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-16-74	Thank you, Congressman Varga. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-02-16-75	Thank you very much. I was also moved by the words of Congressman Gelencsér. I would only say to the Member that it has never been said that we are not happy to see more resources coming into Hungarian sport, because effectiveness is important from a public health point of view, as you said, all because of national pride. Perhaps there is a debate between us that we believe that these huge resources could be spent more efficiently, more transparently, more usefully than they are now. For in many cases, it is indeed our feeling that these resources will be spent either senselessly or with absolute and clear political goals, as my fellow Members have said. Just when someone needs a new stadium because they're a leading fidesz politician, they get one. [[12.40]] It would be cheaper if Fidesz MEPs collected something else, such as stamps or keychain, would not cost the Hungarian taxpayers that much. My fellow Member from Szilágy spoke about single channel financing. Just to amaze the members of Fidesz as a socialist sports politician: Ferenc Gyurcsány had his first idea of single-channel sports funding. I might add, it wasn't possible then, but it isn't now. So now, unfortunately, funding is not single-channel, while it would indeed be worth it for transparency and efficiency if this funding really could become one-channel. I want one more thing, and then I'll press a regular comment button. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that the last time I listened to or listened to the Prime Minister, we all listened to him, someone in this House, to what he was spending and how he spent it, to why stadiums, he said that they were doing nothing - of course he said funnyly - but that the programme that I announced as Secretary of State would then be put into practice. So, so much for what is and what can be said as a socialist politician, as a sports politician. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-16-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute opportunity is for Congressman István Hollik, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-02-16-77	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to comment on a few things. Several criticisms of opposition have been expressed that my fellow Members miss transparency from this 19 billion forint grant. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the non-profit company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender must comply with the legislation in the same way and account must be taken of this money. The other, actually important and perhaps more reassuring fact for you is that ownership rights are exercised by the Municipality of Budapest and the Hungarian Olympic Committee. As far as I am aware, the City Council has a betterman and an MSZP representative, so, in fact, opposition representatives can look at the operation of this private limited company in this way, exercising ownership rights. I don't think there's much more transparency than that. So you have access to all the data relating to the operation of this company. And if you have been critical of the Tao system, I would like to give you some figures; this is what my colleague Nándor Gúr likes, and it may be harder to argue with. In 2011, 234 498 certified athletes were in Hungary, in 2013 the number was 301 671, in 2014 305 477. This means that, among other things, thanks to the Tao system, not only infrastructure investments have been made, but it can be seen that much more children and adults have started to play sports, and in four years the number of certified athletes has increased by 70,000. I think we can consider this a success, so it's safe to say. And once again, the fact that in four years the Tao has moved HUF 260 billion in order to invest in infrastructure in sport, I think that this is a big achievement, let us not discuss this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Kristóf Szatmáry asks for a two-minute opportunity.
u2016-02-16-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I only asked for the floor because there has been a lot of talk here about the opposition representatives' side about what I think about this Tao system. I would like to say that there may be a need to ask associations and sports organisations that take advantage of this opportunity. I would just like to say modestly from the point of view that I have had the pleasure of driving the Budapest Railway Club in Zuglo a few years ago, and I can tell you that we have to ask the people who are going there, that we have been able to bring in the failure of 35-40 years from Taós sources over the past two or three years. And we don't have a stadium or anything in this circle, so it's all about supplies, so the vast majority of this money, I think, is going to a place that serves everyday sports, supplies, health. And most of the clubs are interested in and lobbying for this Tao system to survive, and can continue to develop in the future what is needed for the infrastructure of Hungarian sports. And allow me one more sentence, fellow Members. This has already been said here, but as a Budapester, let me say that the Olympics are a huge opportunity for us beyond the challenges of sport. And let's talk about this, too, so that, like any city that has won the Olympics or at least prepared for the Olympics, it stands in front of a collaboration and a development that I think, as a Budapester, we should be - as myself - XVI. District or Buda, everyone can only think positively. And any source that underpins the infrastructure of such an Olympics will remain here after the Olympics in Budapest, and will serve the interests of the Budapesters and the everyday life of the Budapesters. So both as a sportsman and as a Budapester, I think that the proposal before us can be supported in all respects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The following 15-minute comments are available to MEP László Teleki.
u2016-02-16-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I also asked for the floor because of Mr Gelencsér's comments, because I think that what he said is very difficult to agree with, because we see and can perceive today in Hungary that the goals that you have set to support sport are not an opportunity for the entire population to participate in sport. I dare say this because in the last few weeks - as I have done before - I have been in a lot of rural towns, and I have been to the county of Nógrád in the last week, I have reached several settlements, and there I have seen unblessed conditions in the field of sport. I'll give you a specific example - and with my phone I've taken several photos - I've got a boxing block with no windows, for example. There's only one door where you can go in, there's no window, and there's young people training there. At the time, it was already in my mind how it could be that we fully support a sport, by building sports halls, by addressing the possibility of soccer which we are not against, I would add, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, that it is very important, but why the Fidesz and the Hungarian government do not realize that there are other necessary sports that need to be supported, and we think it is very important that the sports that have not been given priority support so far try to manage them at some level. Because it's not a state and it can't be a state for anyone to put people in a position in Hungary today, as I said, as you can see, I can recommend it to anyone. By the way, in addition to the RTL Club House, if I remember correctly, this boxing gym, where they can't afford to move anywhere else, but they don't have the money and the opportunity to possibly finance their travel expenses for various sports events. This target group is mostly about Roma, who I mention now, but can be seen in many other places. So if you have failed the children in education because you can see and experience it a lot, then do not let young people down through sport, because the future generation can be really well captured through education and sport, enough to be able to capture the future. Therefore, the current government has a responsibility to deal with sports subsidies, whether Tao or other subsidies. There was also transparency, transparency on financial issues. My fellow Member Szilágyi has now left Jobbik, but I think it is possible to agree with him that there is someone who has done everything and can spend certain resources as he wishes, and when, by the way, the broad public sees that the money has not been used well and that perhaps even a crime has come from spending money, the answer is that for more than a year now, we have not dealt with this issue or protect their fellow Member, Florian Farkas, in this case. I think that, whether such money or, as I said, the use of other funds should be much more closely monitored by the government, because it cannot be the goal of a government to make money run away, whether it is EU funds or domestic resources, and then there is no lasting value that can be used in the long term. [[12.50]] Therefore, I think that the payment of Tao grants should not only be about sports halls and should be about going through serious political negotiations, but also on the contrary: it should also be spent on sports that could benefit much better at local and county level. Because the aspect in this law is not so much an opportunity for local entrepreneurs to support programmes at local level, because in general, as we have already heard, in many cases, it is given to whom those grants should be granted. We can't agree with that, and we can't accept it. Therefore, I miss very often when Fidesz talks about such large-scale things - and many times he says that the echo of society is important - why he does not ask society, the people, in this case, what they would spend money on from entrepreneurs or what entrepreneurs offer, because we could see a picture that really reflects the needs of Hungarian society in this matter. There were a lot of questions to the public that I think were completely unnecessary, but in this case I would consider it very important for the future generation, and I think that my party, on the other hand, should have a social dialogue and an exchange of views on this issue, which I think Fidesz will not do now, and that is a very big mistake. So don't steal the future from our children in education or sports. Therefore, try to support every single thing that they try not only to provide opportunities for outstanding sports, but also for disadvantaged settlements and segregations where they can only get there through sport so that they can prevail in this country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-16-82	Thank you, Congressman. The next 15 minutes' comments concern Mr Nándor Gúr MSZP.
u2016-02-16-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to say any more if there is no uppercut from the pro-government side that requires this.
u2016-02-16-84	There's no need to threaten me, Congressman. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-02-16-85	No, no, I do not want to do it, nor do I want to please Mr President; I am simply doing my job as a result of my parliamentary activity. Attila Gelencsér - whose face I can't see, no matter how much I bend out, because the presidential pulpit is blocking it, I know it must sit there, which is why I refer to it at the beginning of the speech - I said in my two-minute comment that it is visualizing the importance of an optimistic image of a country, its drawing, and it is important to him. I agree with him, and I also think that, of course, we need to be optimistic, looking forward, thinking, visualizing, doing a lot of other things. But you don't just have to dream. Dreaming is an important part of our lives, obviously the inspiration, but in itself it doesn't get us to the finish line. You have to do things. It doesn't matter if we're talking about sports or anything else that shapes, influences or affects people's daily lives. You have to do things. I have given an example here, and I have now confirmed - although it is not related to sport, it is not directly to this law, but it does relate to our everyday life -: you know, it must also be dreamed of, and it must also be done, for the 4.5 million people who live their lives under the minimum living standards in this country to have a better tomorrow, and for those children who live on a multitude of abandoned, marginalized settlements in such a situation that they cannot even dream of having a simple everyday sport activity, partly because they do not have decent equipment, partly because they do not have fair equipment, partly because in their school - as I mentioned above - there are many cases where there are no physical and technical conditions. You know, the institutions in the school halls in a given class, four classes can't teach gymnastics. It may be in mind what should be done, how should the frog chase be conducted if it is; so it can be done, only until in Hungary you make a decisive contribution to the development of this set of conditions, visualization in terms of the types of things you are doing, not to say that it is irresponsible, but at least thoughtful. I think that what my fellow Member László Varga finished with his sentence, if not literally this way: the substantial increase in subsidies to mass sports should be shown through the use of Tao resources, which would be the priority in the priority line, and not the construction of stadiums, and not, let us say, eight metres from the Prime Minister's garden. It doesn't bother me if it's anyone's garden; I don't want it to be built eight meters from my garden, but I think it doesn't bother me if it's his, but I don't think it's a good way. This is a kind of megalomania - I don't know what - which, I'm not sure, but it might also raise the issue of health. I do not believe that the rise of Slippery - to be a sign we do speak of Slippery - depends on this stadium. No! I am sure that there would be another option for Slipper's economic engagement and for his other journey to be drawn. That's why I'm saying I think it's megalomania. Look, my fellow Member, when you talk about stealing, lying and making money disappear, I am obliged to give you three, and I promise you, besides these three thoughts, I will no longer leave the framework of the law - a tangible, exclusive example. What if it is not stealing when for five years giant posters are drawn and unpacked on the roads, for example, about the rise in minimum wages, while the people, the unfortunate people, who have the lowest level of income - of course, other than the public workers, the 47,000 - have gone home for years with less money in their pockets than before? ! What if it's not stealing? Of course, it's not the kind of theft where one acquires one's property, so to speak, but it's the kind of the theft where people are fooled, cheated, and, in the meantime, they come out worse in terms of the outcome than before. What if it is not lying when they promise to create a million new jobs in the economy before the elections? ! And we all know in this country, among the walls of this Parliament - there are those who speak of this in a different way - that this is not true, but that it is manipulation of numbers that are taking place in this country on your part, because Hungarian statistics include those who do not do work at home, in the order of hundreds of thousands, and those who were not included six years ago - for example, students with the order of 100 to 200 thousand, obviously the system is pulsing - and I do not want to go deeper into this story. But what if it's not lying? ! And what if it wasn't to get rid of the money - I'll give you an example of that - when, say, through offshore companies - you know what offshore is, you know - you're selling the settlement bonds, you're doing it? ! If I remember correctly, the Economic Commission approves the registration of these companies - perhaps seven of them, in my memory, there are only four or three now - and, through these offshore companies, for the issue of a residence permit, offshore companies of the order of 300 thousand euros, if my memoirs do not cheat, they will take 34 thousand euros, and yet I do not know what kind of contract fee is 40-60 thousand euros. Yeah, you know how much? Just to be clear: this amounts to between EUR 80 and 100 thousand, and it is approaching such an order of HUF 30 million for a person in terms of issuing a permit. And since this is a settlement policy, then after five years the Hungarian citizens will pay back these funds, what offshore companies - in part the size of 34 thousand euros after the contract - have taken over. What's this if it's not to get rid of the money? ! I'm only mentioning this because I think that, in a sense, some of this money is likely to go to places it shouldn't go. So the point of the matter is that theft, lying and making money disappear, my fellow Member Gelencsér, should not be talked about, because these were just scrapes of the surface, which I have just said, and not deep dives. So, stadiums or gymnasiums? I am of the opinion that they are gymnasiums. Yes, the design of conditions that are about our children is about the multitude of our children. [[13.00]] Once again, gymnastics must not be held and conducted in mind, but with appropriate tools and backgrounds. My biggest problem with this bill is, in fact, the same way as transparency and control over the resources used in the Tao 1 per cent, or rather, the presence of intransparency and uncontrollability. Therefore, there is no transparency, there is no controllability. Say, my fellow Member Hollik, that there is no doubt, as the Socialist and other opposition politicians in the City Council will be able to do so in terms of HUF 19 billion. Of course, of course, because they have the majority they need. But I don't want to get out of this again, but I'll tell you to look at the last agenda for today's parliamentary day, which is about transparency, you know, it's a draft law on postal services. So, the use of resources is opaque and uncontrollable. There's no story, it's public money. It's public money, not the benefits and donations of private companies. As has already been said today, perhaps my fellow Member Szilágyi mentioned it, so Felcsút himself was created with public money and not with donations. And that is, if I don't touch people and organisations, but I use a conceptual category; and if I tell you that rogueness is a scoundrel even if they try to draw behind any intellectual, legal framework that ensures that it is legitimized. You know, there's legal and there's moral, there's legal and there's moral obligation. I think that any legal provision that gives practically the legal immunity to not having to face things in some sense does not mean that this is morally not a matter of belonging to the category of scoundrel. Personally, I cannot and do not want to interpret it any other way, if it is a given settlement, and this settlement is, in a similar way, the Prime Minister's home village, as regards the Tao resources - I am not saying it, my fellow Member Hollik says - 11 billion forints out of 260 billion forints - I can't tell you anything else. I think it's inappropriate. It's not appropriate! I'm not saying the Prime Minister is stealing, no, no! But I'm saying it's not appropriate. It is inappropriate, because there are 3200 - 3200 in Hungary! - local government. You know, when Tao money takes El Csút 11 billion out of 260 billion forints, this is more than 4-4.2 percent of all resources, so on the basis of a quick head count, while there are 3,200, roughly 3,200 municipalities in Hungary. If I include the existence of Budapest in this, I have to say, 3,200, is 0.032, so 32 thousand resources should reach an average municipality, and in the case of Felcsút, this is 4.2 percent. Well, that's about 130 times the level of an average government. I think it's disproportionate, far too disproportionate. It's not about who's stealing, it's about what I think is unfair. It is in this sense that I regard it as an abuse of its political weight, not in a good way, to the extent that Felcsut is benefiting from the possibility of using tao money. I do not want to overdo this story, but it was absolutely necessary to mention that I do not think that the law and morality are equivalent in this sense, and I do not want to say that, in terms of confrontation with moral requirements, it is okay for someone to calmly exonerate themselves from these things in respect of some regulatory or legislative framework. And, you know, I would like to make one final point, my fellow Member, Mr Gelencsér, in line with this. I am training this in myself so that investments do not develop and form on the basis of the capacity to promote political interests - I said: Orbán, Shesztas, other names could be used in this regard - but simply to serve the interests of people living in Hungary and to meet the needs of mass sports. And if this is the basis for the use of Tao resources, the use of resources for the Olympics and their control and transparency, then I think it is possible to talk about this seriously among ourselves. But as long as there are no conditions for any source from any Tao who has the right to go through real control, undergo concrete, real control and be transparent for everyone, I think that this is not right. Obviously, we have our concerns, our doubts here on the opposition side, regardless of political identity, or we have them for these things, which I am talking about, my fellow Members. So we need moderation, and we need the use of resources for the common interest of the people. Well, then, I guess it would be different. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-02-16-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By the way, what I recommended to Attila Gelencsér in my two-minute comment - is Sport XXI. facility development programme - and only because, as he put it, I wrote to myself: "To make the idiots understand - in his comments - it is possible to say that this sports facility development programme was based on five pillars. The first pillar of this was, by the way, a gym and schoolwork program, which was also mentioned by Nándor Gúr, at that time 400 gymnasiums were missing from the country in the 2003-2004s, a gym that was really suitable for both everyday and everyday physical education. And when we talk about sports, it's hard to bypass the fact that sports, the Olympic success at all, starts somewhere else in physical education, because that's where you have to get them to like, and then choose the kids. So I would not, in any way, appreciate the thoughts that my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has been talking about over the past few minutes. So it is very important that it is really not possible to hold a physical education course in Hungarian schools only at a theoretical level, not to mention the stress that this may cause children in their present form. Then the second pillar of this facility development programme, my fellow Member, was the development of the Olympic Centres, as these centres serve these sports most in terms of the preparations for the Olympics. Then the third was the stadium reconstruction program, so it was a stadium construction program. True, the aim was to have a UEFA-licences stadium in Hungary, as this is a way of stepping out on a certain international stage, which the Member also spoke about. Then the fourth point is the program to support municipal development. This was precisely about whether Kaposvár or Miskolc could decide for themselves if they wanted a school, a sports swimming pool, a multifunctional sports facility, and to do so they could receive support from the state. And, you know, the fifth was dedicated, targeted support for sports facilities in the settlements below 2500 people, because during that period, the investments that you referred to were made in the settlements below 2500 people, perhaps even a little unilaterally, namely the renovation of the sports locker rooms and the various football fields, as this is the most important part of the sport activity in these settlements at municipal level. [[13.10]] So there were very many initiatives during the Socialist Government, which I think was in the best interests of Hungarian sport. Then I would like to add one more piece of information to the Member: during our governance, sports associations had operational cost support. This was a major change compared to the pre-2002 Fidesz government, because the sports policy considerations or strategy at the time suggested that sports associations should not directly grant operating cost subsidies, but that it was enough to do so through the sports professional associations, because through that filter there is also, so to speak, a source for sports associations, which means operating costs. This was a realistic idea, however, only the practice did not justify this, so this had to be changed, and in the period after 2002, sports associations could also receive direct operating cost support from the State. I would add that in the last few years, we managed to raise this amount to hundreds of millions of forints, and we could double these funds from one year to the next. I mention this only because, as President of the National Association of Sports Associations, these budgetary resources, thank God, have increased. The third thing I would also like to draw the Member's attention to is that it may sound strange to you or it may be sad for you, but the children are not starting to play sports because there is a Fidesz government, and they are not even starting to play sports because they call the Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and my daughter is also my daughter, but many of her companions have also started playing handball because Máté Kocsis was elected president of the Handball Association, but because there are excellent results, there are excellent handball girls at Fradi - my daughter is playing sports at Budaörs, so go ahead, Budaörs from here. In English: they started to play sports because we have excellent sports results, we have excellent athletes, and we are merely concerned that the criticisms we make are about not to put these results in jeopardy because, in some cases, the government is spending them in a different way and elsewhere with a little efficiency - once again, let me repeat positively - otherwise increased resources in the past period. The congressman asked why we always think of Slippery. Then the political arguments aside - he said that we love numbers, we really love numbers - let me tell you a number or two in comparison! My colleague Szilágyi mentioned this very cheap boiler room, which will be 3.1 billion forints, so that they can heat the soccer fields on Felcsú. Just so that my Fidesz fellow Member can place the scale of this amount: in the budget adopted by you in 2016, there is HUF 3.68 billion for the installation development of priority associations, i.e. all of them, and here they spend 3.1 billion on a boiler room. For the development of 16 priority sports, 4 billion is spent. Therefore, if I add up the support for the 16 major sports disciplines, the amount of facility development of the major sports clubs and the amount of competition and Olympic preparation, please, this does not give up 11 billion forints, as Felcsút has received from the Taós money so far. I'll give you another number; you mentioned Toponár, I know him, not as well as you, but I know Toponár, now he's part of Kaposvár. A settlement of 3,200 people received 100 million in five years, which is 33 thousand forints per person, which is very fair. But why the Slippery? Please, because Felcsút is a 2 000-person settlement, and in the last five years, they have received so much Taos money that it is 6.6 million forints per person. That's why we think of Felsú every time we talk about Taós money, and we really assume there's a connection between the Prime Minister's vacation home or whatever. So that's probably why it's important. Not to mention what my fellow Member Varga said, that this year the value of the football team in the High Road increased 34 percent, while the value of almost all other football teams in the Hungarian Championship decreased. So this is an unprecedented leap in the NB I, and this 11 billion forint was indeed able to show a self-educated player against the Diósgyőr. Now, that's why we always think of Szú when it comes to Tao, and when it comes to the fact that these resources are indeed controlled and used for political purposes in many cases, while, by the way, let me say once again, the goal is right and the source could be spent better. I'd like to offer you one more thing. The reference was made to the possibility of a profitable Olympics. I'm sure no one's ever done it before. So here, as you have said, we should dare to be large, really dare, and maybe if Hungary wins this Olympic right, then we Hungarians will be able to settle this Olympics in a profitable way, and we can even arrange that the pre-defined costs will not increase even more than several times in relation to a given investment or security risk. But let us be allowed to do so, at least from the opposition side, let us doubt whether the Hungarian government will actually succeed in organising an Olympics in a profitable way, even through indirect economic effects. Now, once again, I'm just saying this so that the idiots can understand it, as the congressman said, and I think if you go this way, you'll still be Vice President Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. No further comments were made and the general debate is therefore closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-02-16-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I felt weird because I didn't want to give examples and get involved in the way that Nándor Gúr did in his comments, but in a very large proportion it wasn't about the bill during the debate, it was about everything. Perhaps it is also because we are on the first day of debate after the break, and the last few weeks behind us have not given opposition representatives the opportunity to talk themselves out and find the first opportunity to communicate with us, not about the subject, but about the thoughts that have arisen in their own thoughts. If you will allow me, I would like to respond factually to points that have been raised and to answer questions about or concerning the way Tao is used. Let me say - before I begin to explain my comment here in more detail - that the glory or the victory start we heard about Sport XXI has, of course, also resulted in the creation of facilities for which, if the maintenance government was not assisted by the Orbán government with the consolidation of the loan, the consolidation of the local government, that particular municipality might have been a failure, because, otherwise, despite all promises, almost entirely the building of the gymnasiums that had been implemented in this idea has become a burden for the local government. [[Attila Gelencsér is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] And then, returning to the draft law itself and to the response, as many people have said in their speeches, the government has already decided to support the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the City Council in their proposal for the Budapest Olympic and Paralympic Games. In line with the government's objective, the promotion of corporate tax entities, as referred to in the bill, serves to finance the costs associated with the implementation of the Olympic tender, depending on the level of payments, reducing in part or in whole the necessary central budgetary resources. Perhaps this is an answer to one of my fellow Member Szilágyi's questions and questions. [[13.20]] The possibility of funding in the proposed legislation is only available after the entry into force of the legislative amendment, but expenditure on the proposal has already been incurred before the availability of the Tao tender grants, as they are necessary to finance them and is therefore covered by Article 1036/2016. aid granted by a government decision will also contribute to the implementation of the Government Decision 1962/2015. So there is money, which is an option if the current amendment is adopted. The bill creates the conditions for the professional writing of the application. The main tool for this is the future benefit of the Tao Law, which has no new operating logic compared to the existing benefits. In response to the comments made once again, I would like to add that the new system does not constitute a withdrawal from visual team sports, nor from the support of performing arts organisations or film productions. This is because the aid that can be granted depends solely on the willingness of the taxpayer to do so. With regard to the tax relief, I would point out that its rate is limited, which can be applied up to 70 per cent of the calculated tax, the tax advantage available is 2.5 per cent and 4.75 per cent respectively, so the tax advantage available is limited. Let us not forget that all these tax benefits have created jobs in the past period, made investments, improved conditions for replacement training and increased numbers of active athletes. Thus, overall, in the medium and long term, these expenditures will be reimbursed at both national and social levels. We are sure that the existing regulatory environment, the tax aspect of the aid, provides a sufficient degree of transparency and control, which also means that these conditions will also apply to the Olympic proposals. In the interests of transparency, the bill states that the non-profit company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender is obliged, as I have already said, to refer back to the central budget until 31 January 2018 the aid that has not been used until December 2017. I will say exactly where and how this is going to happen: this amount is to be accounted for within a separate article in chapter 42, direct revenue and expenditure of the budget, other heading of budget revenue 4 and the chapter on mixed revenue 1. It is also mentioned in this context that T/8840. The combined value of the aid certificates issued by the non-profit company responsible for the implementation of the Olympic tender for 2016 and 17 shall not exceed HUF 19 billion. This ensures that this threshold can be respected. I am pleased that the majority of speakers support the success of the Olympic tender. I would ask that, despite expressing doubts, once Jobbik, for example, supports the organisation of the Olympics, there should be no obstacle to pressing the yes button when amending this bill for members of the group, since the Tao system has been transparent so far, it has been in the interest of the national economy and young people who want to play sports. This will do the same when the Olympics come true. I also ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-16-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the legal status agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Global Green Growth Institute detailing the privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth Institute will follow. Government referral T/8673. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First... [[To György Szilágyi speaking to Péter Cseresnyés:]] Keep your voice down, dear congressman. Congressman Szilágyi, out in the hallway, if you please. Thank you. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-16-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The T/8673 in front of us. The proposal aims to facilitate the signing of a package of agreements and draft agreements with the Global Green Growth Institute, its accession, the legal status and the exemption of the contract concluded, which are very advanced for Hungary. This global cooperation will specifically facilitate the realisation and conclusion of the elements set out and to be recorded in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement itself, represented and established by the Institute and the UN, pursues the same aim in parallel. The Institute itself is specifically active in the field of green investment, its primary objective is to coordinate activities that favour low-emission, so-called green economic development programmes. Currently, 25 countries are members of this package of contracts. It intends to establish a system registered with a Korean headquarters, which is represented by several European countries at the moment. Hungary's interest is primarily in water management, energy and, in particular, so-called energy efficiency. The Institute itself intends to address the new economic development of the countries and the management of climate change. The Institute itself, in its work, coordinates international developments that promote these objectives. It will facilitate the catching up of developing countries and the implementation of the emission and development targets set out in the Paris Agreement in those countries. Hungary has a particular economic interest in participating in and promoting similar developments in these countries. The Government announced the founding agreement of the Global Green Growth Institute 377/2015. By order of the Government, it authorised the compulsory recognition of the Institute's founding convention. This made Hungary the 25th member state of the international organisation. Hungary is also the first country in the Central and Eastern European region to join and participate in these economic development programmes. On 8 December 2015, at the Paris Climate Conference, the Government concluded a bilateral status agreement with the Institute itself. The purpose of the bill before you is to publish the adopted international convention and to comply with and comply with international law. The status agreement sets out the conditions and parameters for cooperation starting in 2016, allowing the international organisation to operate smoothly. In the coming years, Hungary will be able to expand its climate policy activities, especially in third countries, through regionally two- and tripartite contracts to help maintain climate policy objectives and maintain the parameters set at the Paris conference. The agreement also anticipates fundamental changes in the global economy and the planned implementation of low carbon emissions. I ask that the Honourable Parliament discuss the bill before us and, after discussion, support its adoption. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-02-16-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-16-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! During the last year, everyone paid attention to Paris, the climate summit that took place there, and the results achieved there were also identified as important by UN Secretary General Pan Gimun at an IPU event accompanying the UN parliamentary hearing last week. [[13.30]] At the same time, we need to find the means to achieve the tasks set out in Paris, to achieve the development areas set out in the SDGs. The Global Green Growth Institute is an international organisation based in South Korea to stimulate green investment; its primary objective is to help developing and transition economies achieve low-emission green economy development. It provides professional support and networking opportunities for its Member States. The new types of economic development of countries can ensure long-term inclusive competitiveness, but is also the most fundamental element in the fight against climate change. The Institute is closely associated with international climate negotiations, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It will also support the implementation of the new Paris Convention, including by putting planned nationally defined contributions into practice, through project preparation. As has been said, Hungary joined the Global Green Growth Institute in Paris in December 2005 and has made yet another significant step forward to bring close climate protection cooperation to life and to implement the climate agreement effectively. The legal status agreement now signed lays down the conditions for cooperation between the Institute and Hungary. Among the key areas of operation of the Global Green Growth Institute, as the Secretary of State said, our country also has outstanding results in the areas of water management and energy efficiency, with which it will work together with the organisation as part of the international climate finance strategy. In the coming years, Hungary can set an example for other countries through regional and tripartite cooperation based on its climate policy activities. The mission of the Global Green Growth Institute is in line with Hungary's international climate policy and domestic climate change strategy objectives. Hungary is open to climate cooperation as a Party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol and as a supporter of the 2015 new Global Climate Convention. Such cooperation may also cover the transfer of government, strategic planning, knowledge and technology necessary for the transition to a low-emission economy, in line with the objectives of the new Convention. In the negotiations under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in international climate policy, the primary objective is to prepare the Global Climate Change Agreement, which will be launched in 2015 and in force from 2020, replacing the Kyoto Protocol currently serving as the second commitment period. Climate financing is one of the key elements of the agreement between developing and developed parties. According to our country, mitigation, i.e. emission reduction, is a priority, but adaptation, i.e. adaptation, is also important. By joining the Global Green Growth Institute, Hungary has the opportunity to continue tripartite cooperation with partner countries and the Global Green Growth Institute. The Global Green Growth Institute has set itself the objective of introducing economically viable, sustainable solutions for energy, water management, urban development and land use. Hungary has valuable experience in supporting the economic development of developing countries in these areas. The cornerstones of strategic cooperation are now being defined. I call on my fellow Members to support the achievement of the objectives by adopting the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-94	Thank you, Mónika Bartos. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-02-16-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Global Green Growth Institute established this agreement as an international organisation in Rio de Janeiro on 20 June 2012. Its primary objective is to promote sustainable development in developing and emerging countries, including the least developed countries. Hungary joined the founding agreement on the establishment of the Institute; on the accession, András Aradszki State Secretary for Energy and the Director-General of the Institute signed a bilateral agreement on 8 December in Paris last year. In accordance with Article 15 of the Agreement establishing the Institute, the Institute may request in its Member States privileges and immunities which are necessary and justified for the normal functioning of the Institute, taking due account of the privileges and immunities generally granted to such international organisations. In the negotiations under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in international climate policy, the primary objective is to prepare a global climate protection agreement that will be launched in 2015 and in force from 2020, replacing the Kyoto Protocol currently serving as the second commitment period, and climate financing is one of the key elements of the agreement between developing and developed parties. According to our country, emission reductions are the priority, but we also consider adaptation, or adaptation, important. Climate finance is an instrument for implementation, along with several other instruments, which should cover both public and private funding, but there is also an increasing number of negotiations between EU Member States and the OECD. By letter of 21 April 2015, the Director-General of the Institute welcomed the information on the conditions of accession to the institution and its work programme for 2015-2016. As described in the letter from the Director-General, Hungary would have the opportunity to continue tripartite cooperation with partner countries and the institution by joining the Institute. A good example of this is the "green investment services" programme, in which the Institute provides support to government actors in specific target countries for the preparation of project proposals and for the achievement of the necessary public or private resources. The Institute aimed at introducing economically viable sustainable solutions for energy, water management, urban development and land use. Its primary task is to prepare sustainability assessment and to enable market-based sharing of experience. We welcome the accession to the Convention from the Hungarian Socialist Party, we consider it useful for Hungary, which is why the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. In this connection, the Secretary of State would simply suggest that the accession to the Convention itself and its potential would perhaps give the Hungarian Government an opportunity to reconsider its relationship to the green economy, renewable energy sources, as in recent years we have seen a step backwards in this area, even though, in our view, Hungary's long-term interest would require the Hungarian government to look into the future in the field of green economy and environmental protection. We think - and this is what we recommend to the government - that the potential of the green economy can not only be important for us from an environmental point of view, but also because of the introduction of new industries, the definition of new points of economic growth, employment policy and research and development. This is interesting, as analyses are constantly being published in various articles that Hungary has not yet found, and this is not just a criticism of the Fidesz government, the break-out points for its economy that could guide or support Hungarian economic growth even after the fall in EU funds. In our view, I believe that this green economy, better dealing with renewable energy sources, could certainly offer Hungary great opportunities. This is why we have criticised the Paks agreement several times before, as we said that without impact assessments, you should not jump into such an investment, because of the budgetary implications, or because it is not possible to know whether it would have been better for Hungary if you had invested the same amount in renewable energy sources. [[13.40]] After all, the two will not work in parallel, so Paks will absorb the resources that could have been invested in the development of new industries and new areas, which could have supported the employment policy and other economic growth issues mentioned above. So that is all I wanted to say to Mr Secretary of State: perhaps this could be an opportunity for us to rethink this together a little bit, and we will give you all the support we have in this regard, as we support this agreement, and consider it a good government step. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will spare you the third time to read the reasons for the bill, and the people before me have already done so, by the way, quite rightly, because we need to know why the government has put this bill before us. However, it does not require a particular talent of retort to add a few sentences in my own words to what has been said by the speakers before me and to explain the position of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary in this respect. It is always a great pleasure for us to hear President János Áder at various climate conferences, like last time in Paris, talk about the importance of slowing down or preventing climate protection and climate change for Hungary, but we are never happy to see the opposite of what he says in Paris or in other forums. We are not happy that we are moving forward in small steps in the area of climate policy, or sometimes we are not making any progress at all. We are not pleased that the government is not helping to spread renewable energy sources, and I would like to argue here a little with Mr Attila Mesterházy, because from a climate policy point of view, the nuclear power plant is also a positive solution, since it does not emit CO2 or emit only a minimal amount of CO2 in its operation, so it is equally climate friendly compared to a different type of power plant. Obviously, he has other dangers, we all know that, and now he's not even a threat to nuclear energy, Paks II. The biggest problem is the enormous international pressure around it, the uncertain situation, the uncertain international situation, the uncertainty of funding and many issues. In any case, the government would be very positive, on the one hand, if it had some kind of plan B, some alternative to Paks II. In the event of an investment failure, Hungary's energy supply should be forced, but in the meantime, I think at government level, which will help us to be satisfied from a climate protection point of view and not only to praise us from the outside, but also to say that we have really done everything here in Hungary. I am thinking here that we should not, for example, impose an environmental product charge on solar cells and the use of solar energy through this. I am thinking here that no wind energy tenders have been issued in Hungary since 2010. I am thinking here that we should not have taken away the 100 billion forints that could have been spent on energy efficiency proposals, or spent on the energy modernisation of buildings in the form of energy efficiency tenders, but, following the announcement of János Lázár at the end of last year, this will be used only for public buildings, and there will be no resources for the public to do so. And I could tell you more about the measures that the government has not taken. Of course, in all cases, we welcome and vote in favour of the approval and publication of agreements on the establishment of another international green institute and its appearance in Hungary, as this is a positive thing in itself. I was there in 2012 at the UN climate conference when this institution was born, and we can see that the first steps of a positive process have indeed been taken in order for developing countries to participate in climate protection objectives and developed countries, like the United States, to play a greater part. Although this seems to be questionable recently, Obama has tried to make a gesture in this direction in vain if Congress votes against it or the US House of Representatives does not contribute to these ambitions, of course from economic considerations. The publication of the Global Green Growth Institute in Hungary is welcome, we are very pleased that it will be present in Hungary and will be present from an important point of view. Whether in terms of energy supply or water management, Hungary does indeed have knowledge that can benefit developing countries, but as always, I think that we should start in our own home and then give advice to developing countries or any other country in the region. The justification of the bill says that this institute will start operating at a regional level in cooperation with neighbouring countries, and that the Hungarian Institute of Global Growth Institute could open up to other further developing countries. We welcome this, of course, and at regional level there is a need for energy and water management cooperation. If this institution will facilitate this, then we can only congratulate it. In any case, we will monitor not only the Global Green Growth Institute, but also the government's further policy in this direction, its climate protection policy and its green policy, which, as the speakers before me have already said, at least my MSZP fellow Member has said, has been continuously coming down in front of us since 2010, with a weakening in terms of both the administration and the public administration system. That is why we are always a little skeptical when we come to Parliament with a bill on climate protection or environmental protection. Of course, we are aware that this is now the approval of an international treaty in Hungary, the conditions for the emergence of an international institute in Hungary that are necessary for this to happen in Hungary, and the Global Green Growth Institute can also enter Hungary. That is why we support this initiative, and we will, of course, support it in the final vote, however, with the comment that we will continue to monitor the Government's work in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-02-16-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It may come as a surprise, but the LMP as a Green Party will probably not support this bill. [[Dr. Vas Imre: This shows that they are not a green couple.]] The bill on the publication of a legal agreement between the Hungarian Government and the Global Green Growth Institute detailing the privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth Institute describes an international agreement, which may seem appropriate at first glance. And its contents have been copied from other similar conventions, so there is no reason to talk about it anymore. But the devil is still in the details this time. The real question is who and for what reason does the Hungarian Government intend to cooperate with. It would be really difficult to accuse the LMP of not adding sufficient importance to the risk of climate change and the opportunities that lie in the economic development potential of the fight against climate change. For us, it is really important that the current Hungarian government cooperates with the most important international actors in this area, and that we share our own good and bad experiences with others. At the same time, we note that the Orbán Cabinet is not looking for a partner among Greenpeace, WWF, OXFAM or other well-known, credible and transparent international organisations, and is even more and more hard to prevent their operation, but is offering an organisation with benefits and benefits associated with diplomatic status that is not yet able to demonstrate any meaningful performance in the field of climate protection, but is often accused of working on behalf of various economic interest groups and its main profile is the green painting of greenwashing, i.e. environmentally harmful business behaviour. If this common denominator, which led the Orbán government to cooperate with the Global Green Growth Institute, then we already understand motivation, but we have serious fundamental objections to the content of cooperation. [[13.50]] According to the justification of the draft law, Hungary would have an opportunity to continue tripartite cooperation with partner countries and the Global Green Growth Institute - sounds good. However, by partner countries, it is clear that developing countries are covered by the legislation, and we do not know that the Global Green Growth Institute has so far been able to deliver significant successes in managing effective climate protection projects in developing countries. But let us assume that this will change in the future, i.e. that there will be clearly visible, assembled programmes for climate change prevention and climate change adaptation, and that we will also be able to find wealthy countries that would be willing to finance these programmes. In this case, too, the question is right: what would Hungary be doing in such cooperation? The Global Green Growth Institute has set itself the objective of introducing an economically viable, sustainable solution for energy, water management, urban development and land use. Hungary has valuable experience in supporting the economic development of developing countries in these areas, says the explanatory memorandum. Sounds good, but it's not true. Energy: over the last decades, we have done almost nothing in this area to prevent climate change. We have not been allowed new wind power plants in the country for ten years, our tax system punishes solar cells and heat pumps, and we have one of the lowest share of renewable energy in the EU and energy efficiency. Is this the experience we're about to give you? Or the Russian-funded nuclear power plant construction hidden from taxpayers and parliament through various tricks? Is that what we want to teach the countries of the world? The situation in water management is not much better either. We have just received an EU warning about the poor use of EU funds to improve water quality. The ecological condition of a large part of our surface waters is not known in the absence of negative or adequate research. Instead of using strategic preventive water management, the government continues to insist on a more expensive and riskier approach to disaster protection, resulting in drought and flood-watering periods changing over the years. Nothing happens in order to manage our waters wisely. Is that the example we'd like to show to others? Urban development: the lowest proportion of green areas in Budapest is the European capital. We are now building the City Park to allow the Prime Minister to move to the Castle with another HUF 400 billion spent. In recent years, trees have been eradicated from Kossuth Square, from Ludovika, and on the coast of Rome, the last natural part of the city would be destroyed because of the construction of a mobile dam. Do we want to teach others about urban development? Or would we have valuable knowledge of land use? Hungary is one of the worst examples of land grabbing in Europe. The community land is transferred to the property of the political elite and the oligarchs at an untraceable pace. In addition, it is the easiest place to reclassify and integrate good quality land. It is necessary to make the project a priority investment, for which a simple government decision is sufficient. That is exactly what developing countries should be saved from. What we're about to see is a poorly selected partner and a collaboration based on outdated knowledge, bad practice. Well, you could do it right. There are organisations that really know what to do about climate change, and they not only know it, but they also do it. The Orbán government should be friends with them. But the most urgent task would be to clean up our own house before we begin exporting our knowledge to the world. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-16-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward in writing, nor do I see a name on the screen. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No report. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, who indicates that he wishes to speak to him, Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary.
u2016-02-16-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We may have stormed through the entire professional area and crossed over here on a few issues, not quite related to the legislation, so, if you will allow me, first of all, let me say a few thoughts about professional matters. Thank God, the European Union thinks that everyone can put their own energy portfolio together and put it together in their own economic interests. For example, I refer to Poland, but I can also refer to Hungary. Hungary should create a 13 per cent renewable energy ratio by 2020, we have committed 14.65 per cent, and we are also giving serious development aid to this. In all three portfolio elements that are linked to climate change - energy saving, renewable energy, CO2 emissions - we are far below or above the standard level, everyone should understand it as the most appropriate professional way, and we will meet all expectations accordingly by 2020. What is interesting: in the last six months alone, we have renovated some 450 public institutions from an energy point of view, from an energy saving point of view, but we have also taken a few steps for the benefit of the population. I refer here to the reduction of VAT on new construction properties, to the support for home creation, to the recovery aid, which will be from EU funds, and also to the non-refundable property, which will soon appear. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] However, allow the government to decide that, in order to achieve the EU's objectives most optimally, the most effective use of development money should be made of all elements in addition to public institutions and the population. I would like to offer my fellow Members the opportunity to respond in detail and in numerical terms to any matter within the Secretariat of State, on any subject. There is always a question of taxation and other aspects of the solar element. Let's not forget that in the solar panel we started with a price of 750 thousand HUF kilowatts, and now we are at 350 thousand forints. It is the solar element that has achieved the greatest increase in consumption within renewable energies and has dropped its prices to the greatest extent over the past period. Each figure shows that one of the most profitable renewable energy investments in the future is one of the returns. And it should be possible to say that there is a decline in the green area in Budapest. I'm a green man, too, so I live in the country. Dear Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, you are very welcome there, there are plenty of empty properties. We welcome you in areas where the share of green areas is much higher than in Budapest. I wish our ancestors had designed the central structure of the city a hundred years ago, but we have to work with the current structure, and we have to do it in a way that is best for the residents and the movers. I think it's the right thing to do. And then I would also like to say a few parameters about the bill itself, which sets out a framework overall. One parameter is that the connection has no financial condition. The HUF 1 billion twice with which Hungary joins this system is an economic investment that we decide in the countries we spend the money with. Where are these countries? The Prime Minister has recently been to Indonesia, where we are investing in water - drinking water and drinking water - such as Indonesia. But I can also mention China or India, which may be called catch-up countries, but they are one of the leading powers of the world economy. And those countries that are involved in this activity - the United Kingdom, Denmark, Norway, Australia - are also countries that, in my opinion, think seriously about climate policy and think seriously about economic development. I would also like to say that in several countries, such as England, Indonesia, there is a so-called investment firm or investment firm for the Institute, and 18 countries have decided specifically to ratify the green growth programmes, which also means improvements. So they've agreed to the parameters, the conditions that we can move forward with. [[14.00]] This package of legislation is an economic opportunity for Hungary. I think in these areas, especially what I said, water, energy efficiency, we are good, we must take advantage of these opportunities. We cannot make two billion HUF investment out of this for Hungarian companies. Thank you very much for the active debate, thank you very much for the opinions. If you have any questions, any topics, I'm at your disposal. I would ask you to support the draft legislation, the draft law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome my fellow Members and inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on International Carriage of Passenger Transport and Freight by Road until closure. The government referral is T/8674. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to carry out a replacement attack, thank you very much. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to incorporate our agreement with the Republic of Kosovo on international road passenger transport and freight transport into the Hungarian legal order, which requires a legislative publication. The Western Balkans are also a priority area for the government's external economic strategy because of its geographical proximity. Kosovo, with the help of a young state, the international community, has now succeeded in developing a market economy institutional system. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Kosovo was signed in October 2015. With the support of independence in Kosovo, our country has also invested considerable political capital in Kosovo's success in order to move Kosovo's affairs in the right direction. This is certainly a good basis for us and for us to deepen our economic relations. The area of road transport is also a good opportunity, and we believe that after the status has been restored, we will be able to help Kosovo's carriers access the market by negotiating with a single Kosovo, and we will naturally be able to better provide for the availability of transport permits. The main objective of the agreement is to facilitate international road transport through or on its territory by establishing the relevant rules in an intergovernmental agreement. The Agreement also covers international road passenger transport between the two countries. The application of the provisions can facilitate further expansion of bilateral trade relations and external trade between Hungary and Kosovo. The agreement also provides opportunities for passenger transport and indirectly tourism development and development, its development and further development in the field of cooperation. We respectfully ask the National Assembly that T/8674. Support and help us to announce this agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In November of last year, a general debate was held between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the proposal to publish a contract on mutual assistance in criminal matters. Then I was honored to be the lead speaker of the Fidesz during the trial. Then I presented the cornerstones of the relationship system between Hungary and Kosovo, underlined and with a few sentences justified the importance of networking. I wouldn't do that again. However, I would like to stress that Hungary has a political, security, economic and strategic interest in ensuring peace and stability in the Western Balkans. There is a need to enhance diplomatic relations and develop and strengthen different forms of cooperation. We've reached a next stop today. As Minister of State has said, the main objective of establishing an international agreement is to facilitate international road passenger transport and freight transit through or through their territory. The Agreement also covers scheduled and special scheduled types of international road passenger transport between Hungary and Kosovo. The agreement can facilitate further expansion of trade relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo as well as trade in goods, but also provide opportunities for the development of passenger transport and tourism. I also call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to strengthen relations. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Member Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our country has consistently supported Kosovo's international recognition and consolidation of democracy and rule of law in bilateral and international fora, in the period since 17 February 2008. Hungary recognised Kosovo's independence on 19 March 2008, and diplomatic relations were adopted on 26 March 2008. The high-level visits between the two countries have been regular in recent years and the establishment of contractual relations has also begun. The participation of Hungary in international missions in Kosovo is also an important element of Hungarian-Kosovo relations. The stability of the Western Balkans is in Hungary's national interest and we are therefore taking part in the international peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. In addition to the developing bilateral relations system for the last eight years, however, Hungary should also place a particular emphasis on supporting the European integration process in Kosovo. In addition to the stability of the region, the success of the Kosovo state-building process, the functioning of a functioning political system and a market economy, which upholds European values, is also very important for our country. It is positive that EU Member States refusing to recognise as an independent State have not blocked the EU's involvement, which has also been facilitated by membership of international economic organisations, since Kosovo became a member of the IMF and the World Bank in June 2009. It is also a positive point that the Visegrád countries have agreed to push for the acceleration of the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union and the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund. In the case of developments in economic relations between Hungary and Kosovo, it would be worth considering that agriculture is the main source of official livelihood in Kosovo, since about 53 percent of the country's territory is agriculturally cultivated. It is also noteworthy that Kosovo's mineral wealth is also significant from a European point of view, while manufacturing capacity is underdeveloped. In the mining sector there are dominant ore products such as nickel, zinc, tin and lead, as well as silver, and also significant lignite assets. Therefore, Kosovo offers significant potential opportunities from a Hungarian point of view as an economic partner, so it is worth continuing to build bilateral relations accordingly. By agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on international road passenger and freight transport, the Contracting Parties shall regulate the international carriage of goods by road by coach registered in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties and by international carriage by road in transit between their States and in the territory of their States, or in the territory of a Contracting Party, from a third State or from a third State. The priority objective of the Agreement is to facilitate international road passenger and freight transport through or through their territory. The Agreement also covers international road passenger transport between Hungary and Kosovo in terms of timetables and special purpose scheduled types. [[14.10]] The agreement can facilitate further expansion of trade relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo as well as trade in goods, while also providing opportunities for the development of passenger transport and tourism. We therefore consider that the bill between the two countries on the publication of an agreement on international road passenger and freight transport also contributes to the further development of economic and political relations between Hungary and Kosovo, and we therefore support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After reviewing the international convention before us and which is now due to be announced, we can safely say that it is in line with the criteria of the relevant road regulations, both formal and substantive. For this reason, I have a particular reservation which would prevent it from being accepted, and it has not come up. I therefore urge the Jobbik faction to vote in favour of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the publication of an agreement on international carriage of passengers and freight by road. Just because we can agree with Hungary's efforts to significantly increase its diplomatic activity towards the Western Balkans, as our country has a security, economic and political strategic interest in ensuring peace and stability in the Western Balkans. It is also important to curb modern-day migration as soon as possible and to make it difficult for the efforts of the Islamic State to build bridges in the region. But to make it more than just a general diplomatic cliché, let us look at this bill for some specific and problematic points. I would like to comment on the fact that in Article 4 1.2.2, the category of non-licensed bus services which transport their passengers only in one direction from the territory of one Contracting State to the territory of another Contracting State is also included. Of course, I know that detention of illegal immigration is primarily a matter of border protection, border control and visa policy, but it is well known to everyone that the first groups of migration that started last winter were the Albanians in Kosovo last winter, and when my excellent colleague, Dániel Z. Karpát, called attention to the dangers of this rampant migration, even from the pro-government benches, when he was accused of a kind of alarm and, in fact, political gain on the subject, and Jobbik. Obviously, it is also a fact that these Albanians in Kosovo did not arrive to Hungary with one-way buses at that time, but through the green border, on foot. But at the same time, based on this bitter experience, I would certainly classify a one-way trip as a category of licensed travel - because why would they just come here and not back? Of course, we are also aware that a treaty signed by both parties cannot be amended, can only be declared, but this concern can be expressed by an opposition faction, even in addition to the already indicated support attitude, and it must be said. I also note that the Convention, although it is a non-EU State, allows in Article 6 3.2 that the carriage of goods by road may be carried out on a separate licence free of charge for motor vehicles and tolls. I think we can at least agree with the Secretary of State on this one in principle. The overgrowth of road freight is a brutal environmental, accident and road use burden for our country, thus creating and renovating infrastructure. Thus, a non-EU contracting country could be expected to be allowed to do so only if combined modes of transport are used instead of granting a separate licence for the exemption from vehicle tax and tolls. What do we mean by that? For example, transhipment to container trains at the first possible point from the point of entry. As you know, the carriage of ROLA, i.e. the railway transport between Wels in Austria and Kiskundorozsma in Hungary, stopped under the Fidesz government at the end of 2012, instead of strengthening this mode of transport to improve environmental and nature protection, accident protection and road network conditions. Only a few numbers, my fellow Member, Lajos Kepli, spoke about green energy and environmental protection, quite rightly: it is good to know that in 2002 some 100,000 trucks went through Hungary by loading it on railway wagons. By 2012, unfortunately, this was reduced to only 30,000, but since then this 30,000 semi-trailer has also crashed onto Hungary's roads, causing huge damage and problems, by the way. To see the importance of this, it is enough to mention a few more meaningful statistics. This is the fact that 68 percent of the freight transport in Hungary is now on the road. The annual freight performance is, by the way, about 40 billion freight tonne-kilometres, of which international traffic accounts for roughly three-quarters. All this puts a huge burden on the 9 thousand kilometers of our national road network, which, by forming the main network, bears decisively the burden of the traffic that is pounding through us, all its weights. Therefore, we are not able to say enough how much it would be necessary to give greater emphasis to the construction of integrated transport networks in order to reduce the burden and to take seriously the task of creating combined freight, i.e. multimodal nodes. And another issue that needs to be addressed; I would not be a representative of Jobbik if I did not refer to anything else about the bill before us or to Kosovo. Kosovo declared its independence on 17 February 2008. This was acknowledged by our country, along with most states, quite rightly by the way. With the exception of five states, the majority of the EU also accepts Kosovo's independent statehood of some 10,900 square kilometres. Obviously, it does not surprise me that, in fear of precedent, Slovakia and Romania are among the five EU countries that reject Kosovo's independence. Ceterum censeo, if Kosovo is entitled to the full territorial autonomy of the United States, the French, the English, the Germans, then the Szeklerland, which is even more territorial than Kosovo, has 12 thousand square kilometers of territorial autonomy and is predominantly inhabited by our Hungarian brothers, because it is nonsense that while we are now negotiating an international agreement on Kosovo - and I say it again: quite rightly so - we should say, Csíkszeredán must remove the Szekler flag from the Chamber Hall of the Town Hall, according to a decision of the Romanian court, or even a seller from Deichmann's shop in Somora in the Highlands, because he dares to speak Hungarian to the entrance guest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-16-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if one of the independent Members wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] No. Thank you very much. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] He doesn't want to. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr László Tasó, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We respectfully thank you for your support. I would also like to respond to what has been said. In some cases, it is important to emphasise that we can take significant steps in the field of rail development and its world through EU and domestic resources. I am sure that my fellow Member knows that we will spend more than HUF 1100 billion on rail development in the coming years, and besides this, we will also use Chinese credit to implement the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will naturally help to change the rates of road transport and reduce and improve the environmental burden in this respect. It is also certain that, regardless of the IKOP sources or the CEF sources, whichever one of these sources is available, I am sure that we could use much more to build meaningful relationships. I am not only talking about the investment with Chinese help, but I also have to say that the approach to the port in Koper or the approach to the port in Fiume is also a strategic issue for Hungary. [[14.20]] At the Slovenian-Hungarian government meeting, the Hungarian Prime Minister also made a commitment in this regard, which will serve to bring this circle into operation, and this can also help to change the level of rail freight transport in the right direction. I have to tell you about intermodal nodes, because at the last government meeting, six cities with county rights were given the opportunity to have such an establishment, which will clearly help to change modes of transport and will naturally provide an opportunity for logistical development to take place. Such is Kaposvár, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, Kecskemét, among others Tatabánya; all of a sudden, this is what I can list, and I know very well that there will be an additional opportunity on the following occasions, as the government intends to expand its resources. It may be possible for several cities with county rights to develop intermodal relations in the next few years. For the sake of historical fidelity, we just have to go back a little bit to the period of the first Orbán government, because then we tried to start a process with great steam, which was about building the possibility of combined transport in Hungary as the ROLA programme, if the Member remembers it, I think. The point is, after the change of government, it stopped and stopped. When EU funds had to be decided, it was not the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association in the government. In 2007, practically everything was decided, and in 2006 it became clear what Hungary could use EU funds for. During this period, at the end of the now closed process behind us, we can see that rail development was not the main direction, and that is why this combined option could remain in the background. Now, after the rail developments, I think it is possible that the system of acceptance itself will bring this issue out again, and perhaps we can start in this direction, but the important thing is that we can experience the period of railway development in Hungary. This will certainly help in the coming years. Nevertheless, our agreement with Kosovo, which we hope will be supported by all, as has been said, is a parliamentary party, as the governing party has first given its support to the Hungarian Government in the Parliament. On the other hand, if we build and approve this relationship, many other things, like my fellow Member Mesterházy said, will become an opportunity for Hungary. Indeed, there is a strong opportunity to strengthen our relations with the Western Balkans if we go through the Western Balkans, so I hope that this law will be published with their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, With the closing of the Secretary of State, the general debate was closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the Member States of the European Union, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, until closure. The government referral is T/8341. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-113	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, was signed by representatives of the Member States in Brussels on 11 May 2012. To date, 19 EU Member States and Iraq have ratified the Agreement establishing a contractual framework for relations between the European Union and its Member States and Iraq. The entry into force of the Agreement is subject to ratification by all Member States, including Hungary. Certain provisions of the Agreement have been provisionally applied since 2012. In order to promote effective implementation, the Cooperation Council, composed of representatives of the European Union and Iraq, started work already in 2014. The agreement proves to be a further step forward with regard to the political and economic engagement of the European Union in the Middle East. It aims to strengthen political dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and Iraq, to promote the development, diversification of trade, investment and economic relations, and to promote social and cultural cooperation. The Agreement will pay particular attention to promoting political dialogue in the field of foreign and security policy. The Contracting Parties shall express their commitment to combating weapons of mass destruction and to the illicit use of light and small arms. It is an important step that Iraq will consider the possibility of joining the Rome Statute establishing the Hague International Criminal Court and take the necessary steps to do so. The agreement confirms the priority of the fight against terrorism, against which the Contracting Parties act in accordance with international conventions on human rights and asylum. The agreement also provides for cooperation on the rule of law, asylum, the fight against organised crime and corruption, money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing. These elements are a key element of the agreement itself because of the migration crisis affecting Europe, including Hungary. With regard to trade and investment, the Contracting Parties shall grant each other the highest preferential treatment and shall grant national treatment to the products of the other Party. Products originating in Iraq and imported into the European Union shall be subject to the Union's highest preferential tariff; products originating in Iraq and imported into the Union shall not be subject to any higher customs duties imposed on products imported from the WTO Member States. The Agreement sets out areas of cooperation under which financial and technical assistance, cooperation in the field of social and human development, cooperation in education, training and employment, opportunities for the development of human rights and the development of industrial and small and medium-sized enterprises will be provided. The priority areas for cooperation are agriculture, rural development, energy, transport and telecommunications, and the environment. The Iraqi-Hungarian bilateral relations have been renewed in recent years. Since 2013, the Hungarian embassy has been operating again in Baghdad, and in the Kurdish region the Hungarian Consul General started his official activity in 2014. Iraq reopened its representation in Budapest in 2007 and raised it to Ambassador level in 2010. The majority of bilateral trade flows in Hungary and Iraq are made up of oil imports. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. In November 2014 he opened a commercial office in Baghdad and the Kurdish region to help Hungarian companies invest in Iraq. We hope that this agreement will be a further step towards further developing economic and political relations between Iraq and Hungary. In this spirit, we call for Parliament's support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-16-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Hungary established diplomatic relations with the Republic of Iraq in 1958. The Hungarian Embassy in Baghdad suspended its operations and activities for security reasons between 2005 and 2013. Since April 2013, there has been a resident Ambassador to Baghdad, who, on the basis of the annual Memorandum of Understanding between the Hungarian and British Governments, received accommodation in the territory of the British mission in Baghdad, for a fee. The Hungarian Consul General of Erbíl started his official activity in August 2014. The main Consulate was officially opened in November 2014. As Minister of State said, Iraq reopened its representation in Budapest in 2007 at Ambassador level from 2010.2015. The Hungarian-Irak Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation was initialled on 2 October 2010. It is currently being prepared for signature in both countries. On 31 March 2015, we presented the Hungarian draft Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement to the Iraqi Party. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and its Member States and Iraq was signed in 2012, as was the case. The Parties are currently provisionally applying the Agreement, which was ratified by 19 EU Member States by 30 September 2015. A number of high-level meetings have taken place since 2012. Labid Abbawi, then Deputy Foreign Minister of Iraq, highlighted the importance of relations between Hungary and Iraq during his visit in June 2012. He added that they expect Hungarian companies to play a significant role again in the reconstruction work in Iraq. [[14.30]] Our economic relations are characterised by a significant increase in bilateral trade. MOL appeared in 2007 among the first oil companies in Kurdistan, Iraq. MOL's professional work can also be assisted by the Hungarian Consulate-General, which was opened in Erbíl in 2014. We are also trying to strengthen our educational and cultural relations. As part of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship program, from 2014 we offered 70 scholarships to the federal government and 30 to the Kurdistan region. Unfortunately, events in current history have also matured the need for a new form of cooperation. Following the decision of the National Assembly on 14 April 2015, a multi-stage contingent of 112 persons was established in the responsibility of the Italian-led training centre in Erbíl until the end of August, with a total of three locations for our soldiers. On 11 May 2015, the Foreign Affairs Office of the Regional Government of Kurdistan asked for the treatment of Kurdish soldiers injured by the Hungarian party in Hungary, and Hungary complied with this request. We are also involved in humanitarian aid. On 2 December 2013 and 3 August 2014 we provided aid in two instalments of $35 thousand to Syrian refugees in a camp in the Kurdistan region. On 10 August 2014, the Prime Minister, in connection with the dramatic situation in Northern Iraq, instructed the JRC to provide EUR 70,000 of emergency aid to the Kurdistan region of Iraq under the humanitarian aid article, and the aid was provided in two instalments. The proposal before us creates the possibility of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Iraq. The agreement with Iraq represents further progress on the wider political and economic engagement of the European Union in the Middle East. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement shall serve to facilitate political dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and Iraq and to reduce security policy risks. Its aim is to provide opportunities for joint action in the fight against terrorism. At the same time, it will help to increase the stability of the Middle East region, the mutual development and diversification of trade, investment and economic relations. It will facilitate economic, social, financial and cultural cooperation. Particular attention will be paid to the political dialogue in the field of foreign and security policy in the Agreement. From what I said in the first half of my speech, it is clear that the relationship we have established with Iraq is broad and rich, this is enhanced by the agreement before us, and that is why I am asking my fellow Members to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On several occasions, the European Union has declared that Iraq's geopolitical situation, its proximity to the EU and security challenges related to increasing terrorism in the region have made it an important partner, supporting Iraq's stability. Since the 2003 war, the European Union has provided significant support for Iraq. Since 2003, the EU has contributed more than EUR 1 billion to reconstruction, development and humanitarian projects. For the period 2014-20, the Commission has promised Iraq an additional EUR 75 million. In addition, given the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in Iraq, the European Commission has increased the level of humanitarian aid granted to the country. The funds are intended to support internal Iraqi refugees and Iraqi refugees in Jordan and Lebanon. On 23 March 2006, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement with the Republic of Iraq. During the seventh round of negotiations between the EU and Iraq, the two parties agreed to raise the envisaged agreement to a higher level, the level of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, with the establishment of a Cooperation Council meeting regularly at ministerial level. The partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Iraq is the first contractual relationship between the EU and Iraq. The aim of this renewable agreement for ten years is to establish a solid basis for strengthening relations between Iraq and the EU. The agreement covers three issues. The first political issue concerns the establishment of an annual dialogue on peace, foreign and security policy, national dialogue and reconciliation, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, good governance, regional stability and integration at ministerial and high level. The agreement also contains a clause on combating terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the illegal trafficking of small arms and light weapons. In particular, with regard to human rights, a very important part of the agreement is a special clause on cooperation in Iraq's accession to the Statute of the International Criminal Court in Rome. It also contains a clause on the promotion and effective protection of human rights in Iraq. The latter, with the reservation that if Iraq does not defend, promote and respect human rights, will have a negative impact on cooperation and economic development programmes. As regards trade and investment, the non-preferential agreement takes over the basic WTO rules. It also contains important elements that affect public procurement, services and investment. Under the Agreement, the parties grant each other the highest preferential treatment and grant national treatment to the products of the other Party. Finally, the planned EU activities in the area of social and human development cooperation aim at meeting the vital needs in the fields of health, education and employment, as well as combating poverty, which have priority for the Government of Iraq. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the implementation of these activities, taking into account the principles of social inclusion, transparency and good governance, is integrated in the process of capacity and institution development. The Agreement sets out areas of cooperation. It provides for opportunities for financial and technical assistance, cooperation in the field of social and human development, cooperation in education, training and employment policy, opportunities for human rights development and development of industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. Similarly, agriculture, rural development, energy, transport and telecommunications, as well as the environment, are a priority areas for cooperation. Pursuant to the institutional general and final provisions of the Agreement, a Cooperation Council or Cooperation Committee shall be established, composed of representatives of the Parties and responsible for the implementation of the Convention and shall supervise it. The Parliamentary Cooperation Committee shall provide the representatives of the Iraqi Parliament and of the European Parliament with the opportunity to exchange views. The agreement is an historic event in relations between the EU and Iraq. It took place at a crucial moment, as we hope it will help Iraq in the democratic transition in the coming years, overcoming the challenges of reconstruction and development, regaining the sovereignty of the country and normalising its position in the international arena. The years to come must be characterised by development for a country that, despite its huge oil stocks, must be classified among the poorest countries in the world and where most of the population are unable to meet their basic needs. Democratic, stable, plural Iraq, which takes care of the social and economic development of its citizens and has strong democratic institutions, must play a prominent role in the stability of a region that is key to international security. The Union and its Member States should take these long-term strategic ideas into account in shaping the EU's policy on Iraq. [[14.40]] In order to achieve stability in Iraq, it will not only require strong support from sustainable, fully democratic and plural institutions, but also continuous technical assistance to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of the Iraqi economy by applying international contract law, effective procurement procedures, functioning public administration and an effective framework to combat corruption. Furthermore, the emphasis on dialogue and reconciliation between representatives of different religions will also be vital for the future of Iraq. Although the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement shows the EU's commitment to play a significant role in the transition to Iraq, EU commitments must also be reflected in mobilising human and financial resources that meet the stated political intentions and strategic challenges. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement was ratified by the European Parliament and the Iraqi Parliament, and was provisionally entered into force in August 2012. However, the agreement should not be fully implemented until it has been ratified by all EU Member States. In the framework of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, the Cooperation Council was the first to meet with the participation of the EU and Iraq in January 2014. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the bill to announce a partnership and cooperation agreement between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Iraq, on the other hand, and we can only hope that its contents will not prove to be utopia. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-16-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Parliament. The plan for a partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and the Republic of Iraq before us was drawn up in 2004, when Bernard Bot, then Dutch Foreign Minister, offered it on behalf of the EU. The negotiations finally started in November 2006. The EU's aim with this agreement is to involve Iraq in the international community, thus increasing the country's internal and regional stability. It aims to encourage reforms in the country, to increase living standards, to increase bilateral trade, in line with the WTO rules and to ensure a minimum level of predictability, transparency and legal certainty. As has already been said, the Convention was signed in 2012 and certain trade measures were in place, while the ratification process continued. The agreement was concluded on the basis of the most favourable principle. With the proposal before us, the European Union is therefore seeking a new market with cheap labour, while trying to strengthen the germinating democracy there. I would point out here that, unfortunately, in many cases in this context, we have seen in recent years that the geopolitical and geostrategic interests of the United States of America have been decisive, and they have overwritten everything. It is a mid- and long-term goal for Iraq to join the WTO. This has been the subject of negotiations since 2004. An important part of the agreement before us is that it gives European Union companies the opportunity to compete in public procurement in Iraq and to measure themselves under the same conditions as all Iraqi companies. Current trade favours Iraq, because the EU imports a lot of oil from the country. Imports are practically all that, while machines, means of transport, medicines, food and live animals are exported to Iraq. Imports into the Community are much higher than exports to Iraq; imports amounted to EUR 11,559 million in 2014 and exports data were 4,679 million. From the point of view of energy, the EU would also need a stable Iraq, as it is an old plan to build the Southern Gas Corridor, which would deliver natural gas from the Caspian Sea to the European Union. This plan has been given even greater space and attention with the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, and although it does not necessarily require Iraqi gas, it would greatly improve efficiency. At the same time, it is also important for the Republic of Iraq to diversify its economy, as it is currently based almost exclusively on oil, the price of which is constantly falling. Iraq, therefore, needs investors who would set up new industries in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a fundamental issue, without which we cannot leave without saying how long it may take for the situation in Iraq to be consolidated, as the Islamic State is a daily threat. The Prime Minister's plan is to end ISIS' presence in Iraq by the end of this year. This would certainly be necessary, since a country threatened by terrorism is not a tempting target for investors. The number reported in January this year by the UN observation mission in Iraq is alarming: only 1450 were injured in the first month of the year, and 849 were killed in the country by acts of terrorism and armed combat, and 490 were civilians of the dead. I would add here that Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of Fidesz, referred to military engagement. The Jobbik Group could not support this proposal at the time, because it was assessed that, as a result, our country's threat would increase and, as I pointed out, the Islamic State is present in Iraq with very serious forces. So I ask the government to review their position so far in this regard and to consider whether it is in the interests of the Hungarians that their military engagement and other similar engagements are indeed in the interests of the Hungarians. But, of course, the agreement before us can be supported by the Jobbik Group, as has been said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak to independent Members and to make two-minute speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2012 CLIX on postal services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by our Fidesz fellow Member István Németh Szilárd T/8829. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, the author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The T/8829 in front of us. In the event of the adoption of bill No 12, the 2012 CLIX on postal services. Law 53 The postal service provider is obliged to make publicly available the data specified in the legislation. With the exception of data relating to postal service contracts established under the universal postal service, universal postal service providers' service contracts shall not be considered as public data in the public interest or in the public interest, and any other information the disclosure of which would cause disproportionate damage to the conduct of their business, directly or indirectly, of an undertaking managed by the universal postal service provider or the universal postal service provider under the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition. In particular, the infringement should be considered to be disproportionate if the disclosure of the data could constitute an undue advantage for any competitor in the market. Ladies and gentlemen, The norm itself is clear and clear, but its justification, I believe, makes any constitutional objection, defence, ideological debate unnecessary and unjustified. So the explanatory statement sets out the following principles and constitutional foundations and hopefully makes it clear to all of us. The amendment is the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. It is intended to ensure consistency with the law. [[14.50]] This results, on the one hand, in resolving the unjustified restriction on official documents currently in force and, on the other hand, in order to protect state assets and to enforce fair economic competition guaranteed by Article M (2) of the Fundamental Law, in situations where public disclosure would result in disproportionate market competition. By the way, Article M of the Fundamental Principles of the Fundamental Law literally says so, and I do not think that there is any need for a specific explanation:.Hungary's economy is based on value-making work and the freedom of the enterprise. Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition. Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. With the liberalisation of the postal market in 2013, the monopoly of Magyar Posta ceased. As a last step in the autumn of 2015, the public company also received a competitor in the market for the delivery of items below 50 grams, thus opening up the entire Hungarian postal market to competing companies. Since the liberalisation of the market, other competitors can enter basically all services, but the most significant competition can be seen in the following sectors. There's a huge fight in the field of parcel delivery. Here with TNT, you have to get in the ring with DHL, GLS, Sprinter, DPD and other smaller couriers. But there is also huge competition in the area of payment and banking services. Based on the data of the MNB in Hungary, 39 banks provide such services, which can all be regarded as competitors of Magyar Posta. As a postal service provider, City Mail is the market competitor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth a little time for Magyar Posta's duties as the Hungarian universal service provider, because this is the only way to understand the reverse situation that is being maintained by the current regulation. The so-called universal postal service is the range of postal services which meet the basic user needs and technical, economic and social needs and constitutes a service of general economic interest which the universal postal service provider is obliged to provide to all users throughout the country, regardless of their geographical location, in a given quality and at an affordable price. For the universal postal service, the already mentioned 2012 CLIX on postal services. According to the Act, the following postal services are considered: firstly, mail of a mass not exceeding 2 kilograms and not having a domestic or international dimension other than those specified in the following points; secondly, mail packages of a mass not exceeding 20 kilograms with a domestic or international dimension; thirdly, domestic or international mail containing the writing of the blind; and fourthly official documents. The universal postal service is a state task, which the State performs through the universal postal service provider, and therefore the State has concluded a public service contract with Magyar Posta Zrt. The Postal Act also lays down quality requirements for universal service. For example, the delimiting of the lead time and the obligation for Magyar Posta to ensure the recording and delivery of mail in all settlements. Dear Parliament, It is also clear from the above that while the Hungarian Post has to provide basic postal services of general interest as a universal service provider, it must also fight for customers in the competitive market with businesses managed by private interests. In this situation, the current public disclosure legislation does not create an uninterested and equitable operating environment for the public company. The current rules allow Magyar Posta's competitors to obtain business information, even hidden behind a simple public request, using which to put the public company in an unfavorable position, thereby harming not only the Hungarian State but indirectly the Hungarian citizens. The current regulation is also restrictive of competition, because at the same time Magyar Posta, which also performs its universal service obligations, does not have the opportunity to get to know the business information of its competitors. At present, the course is very low in favour of Magyar Posta's competitors. Even a game is fair and fair if everyone plays it according to the same rules. In my intention, the amendment of the law I have submitted gives the opportunity to define the rules of the postal service fairly and fairly, and to create a fair competitive position on the market. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-16-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[Nándor Csepreghy stands up.]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-16-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before you is CLIX of 2012 on postal services. clarifies the law regarding the disclosure of individual data in the public interest. The bill is supported by the government for its part. In the beginning, it is clear that there is an old debate behind the story, the criticisms received, because we know that our liberal fellow Members believe that the state can only be a bad farmer, that public companies can only function badly, and that we should only follow the interests of the market and of the market companies. But we think otherwise, the state can also be a good farmer, and public companies can operate competitively, above all in the service of Hungarian people. According to the government, Magyar Posta is a 150-year-old company of national strategic importance, which must be protected from the risk of unfair market abuse. But let's clarify the risks we're talking about. In accordance with the rules of the European Union, we have recently opened up the market for postal services to Magyar Posta's competitors, as Mr President said. The company is fighting for customers under free market conditions with purely market instruments and has entered a new area, such as banking services, insurance markets or logistics, which guarantee that the company should not be helped by the budget from taxpayers' money year after year, and which also allow Posta to generate as much revenue as possible for the Hungarian State, i.e. for citizens, in addition to increasing efficiency. In this area, the Hungarian Post has to compete with a number of challengers, and as a public company, it is judged just as much as any other private company. In this area, Magyar Posta works with very important business information, with data that not only involves tangible harm to competitors, but ultimately threatens to end the development and sustainable operation of Posta. At the same time, Magyar Posta also performs postal public tasks, providing community services that are essential for the country's ability to operate. To carry out this so-called universal service provider activity, Posta is bound by law. In this sector, Magyar Posta is already working with data that the broad knowledge of which does not create a market disadvantage for the company, as it cannot carry out any other type of activity outside of it. Dear Parliament, According to the current regulations, Magyar Posta does not have to disclose the latter data relating to universal service, even though they can be decisive for assessing the performance of public functions and the provision of public services. By contrast, the Posta must today provide all the information related to the functioning of the competitive market and create a situation of unfair and harmful interest for its disclosure. According to the government, this situation is neither logical nor fair for the Hungarian Post. We want equal opportunities, because the current legislation discriminates negatively against the economic company which provides the property of the Hungarian State and which represents its interests. We consider it professionally justified and fair from a competition point of view, that, contrary to what has been said, data on public services should enjoy full public interest and accessibility. If any competitor is free to access the competition market information of Magyar Posta at any time without any particular justification, then the national postal service provider will be provided without restriction to private interests, thereby risking the operation of the company in the long term. [[15.00]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, At this point, it should also be clarified that, contrary to the rumors published in the press and generated by the opposition, the amendment of the law would not stop or make impossible requests for data of general interest at the Hungarian Post. In relation to the request for data, the possibility of redress would continue to be granted to rights seekers, and the judicial path to deciding on data request cases remains open. Once again, I would like to point out that data relating to the universal postal service are becoming data of general interest within the meaning of the amending proposal, so the amending proposal even expands the range of data of general interest in some respects, i.e. rather than open letters and criticisms, the TASZ, Transparency International, K-Monitor or even Transparent, as further steps have been taken to increase transparency. Contrary to the rumors, all information on spending public money would remain public interest data in the future. The management of Posta will continue to be controlled by the State Audit Office, which is independent of the government and responsible exclusively for the Parliament. In recent days, the issue of constitutionality has also been raised in the context of the amending proposal. Under the Fundamental Law, Magyar Posta also has the right to the constitutional protection of business secrets, which serves fair market competition and the protection of state property at the same time. It is necessary to stress that the permanent practice of the Constitutional Court also shows that the right to access data of general interest may be limited to the protection of other fundamental rights or of a constitutional value, while respecting the principle of proportionality. In this case, several constitutional rights and values justify the creation of the info law, such as the right to property under the Fundamental Law. The business secret is also a right of property value in the case of a State-owned undertaking and is therefore protected in the same way as the right to property and the obligation to manage with national assets. According to the government, these rights and values are violated if the competitors of Magyar Posta, acting in competition on the free market, have access without limitation to all the company's business data. This was recognised by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in a recommendation in 2012 and stated that the broad interpretation of freedom of information which is not compatible with the social purpose of society should not disproportionately limit legitimate national interests. According to the authorities, therefore, a reasonable interest in keeping business data and information secret may also exist for companies with State-owned or majority public participation. In view of this, the Government supports the individual MEP's motion and we are asking Parliament to do the same. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-16-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The national justification and explanation of the government's opinion before us have now deeply convinced me that what happened here was not that Szilárd Németh, a member of the National Security Committee, woke up this morning and had the sudden idea that the interests of Magyar Posta must be protected against competitors - [[István Szilárd Németh: I did!]] for a fellow Member, it was very difficult for him to read the reasons for his own bill. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] - ; because it was heard that he began to be extremely concerned about Magyar Posta's parcel delivery service about how big competitors are here. Compared to this, the Magyar Posta website still has the full price reduction for parcel delivery, all the discounts, obviously, who wish to use them, can be reached there, but also competitors, this is completely public, it is on the Magyar Posta website, so this is a completely unfounded reason. He also convinced me that it was not an idea of his own, but not even of the government's idea, and not of coincidences, as these arguments, imagine, I have read and heard it, in the four or five lawsuits that are currently under way - I have launched data claim lawsuits - where several lawyers from the FHB group appeared on the site of Magyar Posta. There was a trial where 20 lawyers were sitting against my lawyer, and the same arguments were put forward in court that universal service should be separated here, competition and contracts and services in the market area should be separated. The same arguments were made that the data available to competitors could be detrimental to the Posta. I would like to say that I am not a competitor of Magyar Posta, I have not planned any postal service, any financial service available at the Post Office, I was interested as a Hungarian citizen in 25 questions, 25 contracts, 25 kinds of information, and imagine - I will certainly quote what I asked of the Posta, which of course it did not issue, and I had to turn to the court - the courts are about to pass a judgment, they wish to deliver a judgment of first instance, and, behold, such a restrictive and restrictive provision appears. Well, I asked the Hungarian Post why private intermediaries should be involved in the sale of sovereign debt on the Hungarian Post. This relates to what we have heard here, that Magyar Posta will be put at a competitive disadvantage as a state-owned company. Well, that's not true, because the financial activities you mentioned and the company that performed it are not exclusively owned by Magyar Posta, but also owned by the Spéder empire, the FHB group. Today, a small investor goes into the post office - the posthorn, Magyar Posta Biztoság Zrt. is outside. I asked János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, how he does this, because the postal law clearly records the use of the logo - so the small investor, Hungarian citizen, wants to place his small savings, and he is convinced that he will deposit his money at the Hungarian Post, and Magyar Posta will buy the treasury ticket, the sovereign debt only sold by Magyar Posta, and his money will go there. But that's not it. Magyar Posta Biztoság Zrt. it manages its small money, but first it opens an account at FHB - one of the 39 banks - and it records this security that can only be traded by post and probably does not know that it is not managed by the State-owned post office, but is also owned by the FHB group. But if you would like to invest your money in a real estate fund instead of buying sovereign debt, because you can get a higher return there, you will still give your money to this mixed-owned economic company, and then what happens to this money; there is information that you will put it on a private fund, some kind of Diófa fund, that buys different properties from it, but unfortunately, the citizen, the small investor, has no idea that his money is not managed by the Hungarian Post Office. This is why I was wondering what contracts Magyar Posta has concluded with this company, what its relationship with FHB is, how much this company pays Magyar Posta to perform these services. And the claim that the Hungarian Post has 39 competitors is not real, because say, Congressman, a bank with nearly 2,700 branches in Hungary. Tell me one thing. [[Dr. András Schiffer: He won't!]] The Hungarian Post has a mailbox at 2,700 locations, where FHB has acquired a special right, where he can carry on this financial activity. This may be entirely legal, but don't limit the opportunity for me to access these contracts and find out that what is going on at the Hungarian Post Office, which you said was 150 years old, is reliable and very important, strategically important, what is going on with the private investor's money. I asked the Posta about the terms and conditions of the FHB Mortgage Bank Plc. Magyar Posta Bézik Zrt. Half. [[15.10]] So how did the contract, under what circumstances and what does it contain, which actually sold Magyar Posta Investment Zrt., which is wholly owned by Magyar Posta? I was also curious about the conditions under which Posta allowed private FHB Mortgagebank Plc. and privately owned Takarékbank Zrt. JNT Security Kft. Almost half. Under what circumstances, how, why? What are the reasons and conditions for the strategic cooperation agreement between Posta and the FHB group, and what is its content? What are the conditions under which Posta, together with the FHB Mortgage Bank, purchased part of the privately owned Toll Collector Holding? In what circumstances did Posta buy itself into Magyar Távécszerkezeti Bank Zrt.? Who or who are the real beneficial owners of cooperation with the Posta? There was a meeting tomorrow, I invited the journalists to see such a lawsuit for my press conference today, and there it was said that Magyar Posta's Card Center had concluded a contract with Magyar Kártya Kft., which - see a miracle! - FHB Mortgage Bank Plc. is owned by the owner, in connection with the fact that the citizens who pay their utility bills with the Hungarian Post card are provided by this private company, so these services should go through it. I asked if it was possible to know the contract that the Posta concluded in this regard. I am convinced that this is data of public interest whether it is on the market or not - and it is on a limited market - because I have no idea whether there was competition in this regard, whether it offered the market - speaking of the market - to potential competitors, which you have indicated, in order to make better offers. So what I'm curious about is how this whole complicated story took place, what the contractual backgrounds of this, what information can be obtained from it, how it managed public money or this public service or the Hungarian Post with this public service, is the interests of the Hungarian state, the interests of the taxpayers, because let's face it, not everyone has 2700 branches where this activity can be carried out. How is it that only and only the various companies of the FHB Mortgage Bank and FHB are entitled to do so, that's what I was curious about. So these 25 cases are being dealt with, and this draft legislation is being drafted. I would like to say that I agree with you, and I also agree with Attila Péterfalvi, who says that there are business secrets the disclosure of which could jeopardise the business interests of the state-owned or state-owned subsidiary. Yes, but this is still regulated by the Freedom of Information Act, and the court may consider in a specific case which data are classified as business secrets and which are not. There were a lot of margin of data request and there is going on, there was one thing I won by allowing the data controller to remove the part of a business secret from a given contract, but you are in this draft legislation complete contracts..., so you say that your contracts or contracts are data that you would exclude from accessibility. So they go back to the administration of justice, restrict the free discretion of the courts; Szilárd Németh is willing to do so; he has also made such a statement in previous cases, and now, with his proposal, he narrows down the discretion of the court. I ask - obviously I am no longer surprised that this law is being passed in connection with the Hungarian Post - why, at the time, such a law had not been passed in relation to the subsidiary of the Hungarian Electricity Works. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't give me ideas!]] I couldn't have known about the contracts with MET in my life! There was a HUF 150 billion deal, which I received as public interest data - I would say, based on the decision of the Constitutional Court, the court directly referred to it - and now you here at the Post Office want to take away this opportunity. So, what kind of business are we talking about here? So I had access to the data at a $150 billion deal, and now you're trying to make it impossible. So I would like to stress, personally, that this law is unconstitutional, and today the court has the opportunity to consider what is a business secret, what is not, and I share the position of the head of the Office for Data Protection, but let the court now decide that. It seems that those FHB star lawyers - because I looked it up online, as a Pécsi I didn't know who the star lawyers were here in Budapest, but FHB hires star lawyers - they were sitting at this trial, and they probably felt that there was going to be some information that could be extremely negative for the FHB or Spéder empire. I don't know, I don't want to make assumptions, I'm asking you to withdraw, Szilárd Németh withdraws this bill. This is the beginning of something, so if this goes through the constitutional filter, then I can see that they will also pass such a law in relation to the MVM, also in relation to the Paks investment company, and then the state companies can go to cover up the reality completely and do whatever they want in these companies. I will not allow it, fellow Members. This is not your money, the Hungarian Post is not your plaything! Indeed, it is a 150-year-old state institution, and I would like it to stay that way, and it is not the plaything of a businessman you like and are well-behaved. This can't be about this. If you don't have anything to hide, you're gonna have to hand out the contracts. So I find this unacceptable, and we will not support the bill. I would like to point out that we will be looking for the President of the Republic, if Parliament votes not to sign, to appeal to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has several decisions to assess this situation, so I think that this law cannot be successful there, but I will also take advantage of the constitutional complaint in the case. I will do everything in my power to ensure that this law does not work, because this is a very serious attack on freedom of information and that public data can be accessed. Unfortunately, tomorrow's trial is canceled, the judge has reported illness, the trial will be held on 28 March, so there is no first-rate judgment in this case. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I must say, frankly, it is strange that the governing parties do not set up a keynote speaker; we have heard a speech from the national speaker, but that does not mean, of course, that this could replace the opinion of Fidesz and KDNP in the lead speaker's round. I trust that later - perhaps it was just some technical accident here and they could not deliver the lead speakers in time - Imre Vas will say, let's say, Imre Vas will say, I trust, as a lawyer on this subject, since this must be considered mainly from a legal point of view, what is ahead of us. It is possible to say nicely-sounding words to the Parliament about the business secret and everything else, but the problem is that the Fundamental Law is clear, I must say to you that it is too clear to you that it is too nice to express to you what counts as national property. By the way, in the wording of the Fundamental Law, this was a forward-looking passage, a forward-looking passage, because it was often possible to refer to municipal, state-owned companies as to what could be regarded as national assets, and what data on the management of which were considered to be public data. It's so short and so concise, I'll read it to you. Article 38 is quite clear:. The property of state and local authorities is national property. So everything owned by the State or by the municipalities. This is true of corporate property and even indirect corporate property, it is quite clear, the sentence closes with a point. If that is not enough - I will not read everything, I promise - but in Article 39 we can also find that data on public funds and national assets are data of public interest. [[15.20]] That's the basic legal background we're dealing with. It's clear enough that it's very difficult for you to vary, but you'll try. In addition, the information law, the info law, contains clear wordings, which are often tried to expand. This is what we saw last year, and I will talk about it, because we need to see what they have, unfortunately, caused in practice. The info law defines that in some circles, of course, you can talk about business secrets, there may also be data in a public company, especially if you try to cope in the competitive sphere, and it would be detrimental to market participants if they knew about its management, but so far the court has been able to decide that. By the way, look, there's been some data that's been denied, and the courts have decided that even in the case of Posta, it doesn't have to be published. And in other companies, there was such a thing as the court said, yes, it is a data that would be detrimental to competitors if it were found out. But basically, you have to see that when you talk about public money, you always have to be more careful about the subject. This reminds me a little of what the Hungarian National Bank has played and has been playing lately. When they gain profits, say, exchange rate gains, either because the exchange rate or forints are weakening, and they bought the euro, Swiss francs at a much better rate, they had hundreds of billions of forints in profits, and in some ways they will have a certain aspect of the National Bank, although it is clearly constantly decreasing as it sells its reserves, well, if these funds are realised, then they say that this is the money of the Hungarian National Bank, this has nothing to do with Parliament, it does not have to be paid into the budget, there is nothing to see here, everyone goes on, it is the money of Matolcsy and his colleagues, they spend it on what they want, whether it is for castles, overpriced properties, or for various alternative economic research and education. But what if there are other trends when the National Bank of Hungary loses? What then, fellow Members? Who's gonna make it up to you? Then Mr. Matolcsy will say I'll put it in his pocket? I mean, as long as it went well, it was ours, and now we're putting this money in our pockets. That is not what he will say, but the Hungarian taxpayers will put the money in it. I sense that in these companies - and the Post Office seems to be the first - they want to play this game. I ask the question, if you come here with a proposal - we might be able to make a point, but it would be more realistic - that if a public company makes profits, it is successful in its presence on the market, and taxpayers do not always have to put the money in it, then you may say that I work so successfully and well that I do not want to impose on competitors how I operate. This should also be very developed so that it can be a functioning construction and meet constitutional requirements, but without making any criteria or restrictions on how to interpret the fact that it causes disproportionate damage to the company or constitutes an undue advantage to the competitor, this seems to be a rather unorthodox proposal in this form. And I must also tell you that this is precisely why we said at the time that the liberalisation that the European Union expects can be harmful. Posta has repeatedly come up that in some cases it is demanded that Posta open the market for postal services, which is harmful to Hungary. And in addition to trying to push the deadline, you have not done much to act with the Union, or to ask whether these EU rules, where appropriate, are not offensive to the nation states, all the more so because companies that will enter the liberalised postal market will be pushed into sectors that can be run profitably. They will provide various urban services and everything else, and the residual areas, including rural or farmland life, will suffer from this, to which it is very uneconomical to take the letter out at a specific price. These companies, i.e. the market players, will not show up there, but the Hungarian Post will have to provide its activities at a loss in many cases, ergo we return to the fact that it has to be made out of taxpayers' money. And it wouldn't be a problem if a fellow countryman on a farm didn't have to give up a letter more dearly, it wouldn't be a problem, it would only have to be dealt with in a package, and if taxpayers quasi-dot certain services - because that's what this is about - they could expect to ask about and see what they're spending on investing in this company from all our taxes. Last year, as I said, by amending the info law, the public interest data that could be generated by municipalities or public companies were made more difficult to understand for all data that could be requested. Let me remind you that it could also be a pre-decision study, which, by reference to which - and such a reference can be made to almost anything - will not be published. It is necessary to pay the costs, but not only the direct costs, but also - and this has not been raised and rebutted here in Parliament, and this can be the result of the text of the law - either an electric bill or an overtime fee for the person with whom this is done. And the most beautiful is the reference to a spiritual creation. This was absurd, and I have to say it again, because it is not a question that anyone who writes a study and sells it to the State will not be transferable. And that's something you can take for granted. But once the state buys the property rights, it often pays billions for these studies, from then on, the part of intellectual property rights will be transferred to the state that he, as a property element, can apply that right per asset, and from the moment that public funds are paid for it, he must be available to the public. Here, the exception is very limited, which is acceptable. Otherwise, according to the info law, this would have been possible. And then we begin the first week of the Parliament by saying that this proposal lies before us, which is precisely why its justification is a lie, since it says that I will take it up with the info law; the general justification is a sentence, but it should at least reach the amount of standard text to be amended - so it says that it is justified in order to ensure consistency with the law on information self-determination and freedom of information. Well, that's exactly what they're doing to break the harmony. I don't know how you can interpret what you're describing so contraryly. And they're actually trying to smuggle or try to make a new rule out of the info law. And it is true - this has also been mentioned by my colleague before me - what the cases to which I would like to apply could be. I wouldn't make any assumptions here. However, it is very talkative that I would like to apply this law as soon as possible to pending cases. [[Dr. András Schiffer: For example, a judge gets sick.]] Then there are two things. There may be a court case going on, as my fellow Member Schiffer said, and then it can be applied. By the way, they did the same thing in foreign exchange transactions, but I don't want to get into that anymore. The point is, if you were thinking about the future and you were afraid that the competition would get in the way, you would say that you would do so for the future. If, on the other hand, they are aware that one of these evil western or eastern companies has already requested such data, because that could be the case, they should say so. Then they say that there is a dangerous endeavor here from one of the competing companies, they have already requested the data, and if the Parliament does not act, the entire Hungarian Post Office will collapse. Otherwise, if that were the case, this would be another criticism to the Union, since it would destroy a market, some of which would be interpreted as a competitive market for them, and another part is clearly a pure public service, as I have explained. [[15.30]] To sum up, I must say that the proposal will not meet the explanatory statement you are writing, nor will it stand the test of constitutionality. I trust that there will be a sufficient number of 50 Members who will sign this, and I also hope that the Constitutional Court will be able to reach a quorum by then, or at least 11 others, but can decide on this matter. By the way, we will also look at it, or it will be waiting for us, that the constitutional judges, who are constantly, sometimes with a circumstantial wording, have taken over the arguments of the governing parties, the Fidesz-KDNP - they have learned, because many of them have sat here, from these parliamentary benches to the Constitutional Court - what they will say about these very clear passages that I have read from the Fundamental Law. They cannot argue that this is a matter of national wealth in the case of Posta, they cannot say that it is not a matter of public money, of public property, and they cannot argue that the transparency of public funds is a constitutional interest which cannot be circumvented in this form. It can also be accepted, of course, that the Parliament can adopt any law, but we trust that the Constitutional Court will act properly on this matter. We also hope that this process will stop, and this has been said before me, just as it is now in front of the Parliament, because it can also happen in other companies, Magyar Nemzeti Bank, Tram Works, Szerencségy Zrt. Believe me, we've fought this battle in the local government. Business secrets were also referred to by local government companies which had no competition or competition in the relevant market. They provided mandatory public services and were also obliged to do so. For example, in the field of burial, if I were to give an example, we also fought with various municipal funeral companies, as they said that they were the only ones operating a cemetery, say, in a settlement, and that their competitive position would be impaired if certain farm data were published. Well, here at the Hungarian Post Office you can talk about competitors, but I think, as I said, the legislation in force ensures that competition can be protected and that the data can be protected. Other amendments are not eligible. Some amendments will be tabled, Mr President, and if they are accepted, although I doubt we can support them, but the merits of the whole proposal will change. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-02-16-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This proposal is a lie, a hypocrite, and a sly bill to the core. Since it is unconstitutional in all its tastes, I demand that it be withdrawn immediately. On three points, I would like to show why this bill is a liar, why it contradicts the political or most of the propagandas produced by the Habony works that we could read and listen to in the explanatory statement. But first, I would like to make a little historical detour, linked to what my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, said at the end of his speech earlier. The thing is, if there's an area that connects the old elite, the 20th-century parties, it's exactly how public property companies, public property, can hide. Prior to 2010, a series of lawsuits had to be used to beat out contracts for different public companies from the course at that time, including those that otherwise related to the robbery privatisation of the 1990s. Your predecessors, the fake left-wing coalition in the government before 2010, kept saying that you can't ask for contracts from state companies because you're violating business interests. For 20 years, the various Fidesz and Socialist authorities have been saying that we have nothing to do with how local government companies manage, because it violates business interests. Even during the first Orbán government, the practice of sponsored football teams of the Hungarian Development Bank supervised by their friend and sponsor Lajos Simicska, even though the Hungarian Development Bank does not have any competitors, I ask why there is a need for advertising. They continued the practice, and this ballib coalition, which took over in 2002, took over the fact that state-owned companies without competitors also wasted public money on marketing and advertising expenditure. They shared the brazenness of when MVM, MFB, other state companies such as Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. After his spendings was researched by a civil society organization, journalists, they kept coming with it, and there was no difference in the socialist and fidesz argument that everything that concerns the management of public companies is violating business secrets and hurting business interests. I'm sorry, I'm correcting myself. There was only one difference between you two. When one of them is in opposition, freedom of information is suddenly very important. Between 2002 and 2010, when the story was reversed, and the socialists were in power, you were in opposition, you were very pleased when, in long trials, you were able to beat out of the state trustee under socialist supervision, let's say, the contracts for the robbery privatisation of the 90s, or, say, the various public interest figures of the Ministry of the Fox. But it seems to you that János Kóka is not only a business partner, but also a spiritual father, János Kóka, who is escorting the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to Saudi Arabia. After all, what Szilárd Németh has just said is a chemical-pure cocaine argument. We heard the same thing in 2006, 2007 when the economic portfolio at the time did not want to release data. I have claimed that for three reasons this proposal is lying to its core and that it is very easy to expose the lies of this proposal. Congressman Németh comes with what is, of course, worthy of the fact that state wealth and public participation must be protected in public services, since the postal market had to be liberalised and the interests of the state as owner must be protected; is that not the way the justification was put? Very good. But the fact is, if you really want to protect Community property from competition from global large companies, then why liberalise public services? If what really hurts you is that, depending on a liberalised public service market, the type of settlement and the financial situation, Hungarian people will have different access to public services, then why should the liberalisation demands lie down? Why aren't they brave in Brussels? We do not have to talk here in Hungary, we have to go to Brussels and fight in European forums so that they do not lecture Hungary on various liberalisation obligations! Where were you, Mr Németh, the great national commitment at a time when we should have faced the liberalisation dictatorships? Where was the great fidesz courage then, where is the fidesz courage when it comes to confronting, say, the WTO, say, the European Union's liberalisation demands, such as health, education, postal services markets? I'll tell you what. At a time when Hungary was not yet a member of the European Union, and the trick was not yet used by global large companies to conclude separate regional contracts like the Americans now with the European Union, at the end of the 1990s, Hungary negotiated independently within the World Trade Organisation, since it was not an EU Member State and servilely offered to open up the market for education and health services. He offered in a solitude, and then the Prime Minister was called Viktor Orbán, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs by János Martonyi. That's the thing. This is your national commitment! Then this process, called the GATS, the process of liberalisation of public services, was suspended due to the critical protests of various globalisations. These dictators are coming back on a detour. If what really hurts you is that we cannot provide a quality public service in Hungary, that large multi-company companies are creating disproportionate competition, then we should have faced these neoliberal dictatorships. We should have beaten the table in Brussels to allow cross-subsidisation, such as rail transport, bus transport or postal services. We should have beaten the table for national sovereignty, because it is very clear that these liberalisation dictators may be good for the core countries, they may be good for Germany, the Netherlands or France, but they are harmful for Hungary, they are harmful for the other Eastern European and Southern European countries. [[15.40]] The Hungarian national interests are offended by the fact that you do not have a bad word about banning cross-financing from Brussels at public services, and you do not have a bad word about pushing these liberalisation dictatorships down the throat of Hungary. And you didn't have a bad word for it, and here's the first theory that you'd want to ensure a high-quality public service. They will not be able to provide it, and they cannot provide it because journalists are curious about Posta's contracts, but because they slylyly, slavishly meet all these demands out in Brussels. Moreover, this was practically recognised by the government when the new Public Procurement Act was negotiated. Secondly, you claim that you intend to protect Community-owned public services. Great, but this is not just about the Hungarian Post Office. I do not want to give you an idea, I also suggested to my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, that you do not do so, because they will do so at the end of the day, but if you were led by fair intentions, you would not bring here the Post Law, but would amend the law on national assets or the Public Finance Act. Note that then we should probably also touch the info freedom law and create a regulatory framework for the different rules governing the management of public service companies, but they do not. And for some reason, this bill is very urgent, so urgent that you could not even write a valid statement of reasons. Note, otherwise, this bill could have been rejected by the Speaker of the House, because what you call a statement of reasons is a shame, a disgrace: it practically repeats what is in the norm. You can't make a bill without a reason. I don't know who you think you're stupid. The fact is, then, your lie will be exposed in the second step. This is not about protecting national public services, because then they would not only have brought the Posta here. Third, what kind of harmony are you talking about in the legal system? The whole thing isn't true the way it is. Article 39 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law, which was rightly referred to by the President of the Data Protection Authority, and by my betterman colleague, have just been referred to, are quite clearly stated:.All organisations that hold public funds must be accountable to the public for their public finances. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. Data on public money and national assets are data of general interest. That's what it's used to say that the jury doesn't have any more questions. But let's just keep going. There is a law called the State Property Act, the 2007 CVI. Law and qualifies as public data in the public interest all data relating to the management of public assets. Then you made a separate law, the 2011 CXCVI. a law on national property, where it is also stated that the national property, its value and its changes are recorded by the owner, and these records are public. I beg you, what is more supportive of changes in the value of national assets than a contract? ! After all, the value of national assets changes through contracts, obligations, if that national property is a part of a business held by a public company. But let's keep going. Here is the Freedom of Information Act, the 2011 CXII. Law 27, which, by implementing the basic provisions, provides comprehensively for freedom of information, and there are indeed grounds for exclusion, as set out in Article 27. § 2 contains this. From (a) to (h), it says: in the interests of defence, national security, crime prevention, environmental or nature protection interests, central financial or foreign exchange policy interests, foreign policy interests, judicial and administrative proceedings, in view of the right to intellectual property, it may restrict the exercise of the right to data of general interest and list eight reasons. What you are referring to here, Mr Németh, is not listed in this list (a) to (h), so it does not create consistency but creates confusion within the legal system. Once again, I'm slowly telling you to understand. It is about the fact that there is a framework law on freedom of information, and it lists the eight reasons for which a separate law, even the postal law, may restrict the exercise of freedom of information. The interests referred to in this bill are not covered by the Information Freedom Act 27. In the list of paragraphs (2) (a) to (h), and even with the most fidesz, the most flashy creativity, it is not possible to enter any of the points, that is the case. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes, you can!]] In its list of paragraphs (a) to (h) and even the most fidest, flashy creativity, it is not possible to include either of these points, that is the case. (Dr. Vas Imre: Yes, you can!) So they are not creating harmony, they are creating confusion, because they contradict the principle that the law on national assets you have created, and they put forward a reason in this separate law that is not in the power of the Freedom of Information Act as a framework law. I would therefore like to point out that, in addition to the fact that this law clearly and clearly infringes the relevant section of the Fundamental Law, Article 39 is also contrary to another basic provision, namely: the principle of legal certainty is also infringed by this provision, since it limits the fundamental right in such a way that the restrictive law conflicts with another law governing the exercise of fundamental rights. And indeed, the situation is that the legislation currently in force, such as the Freedom of Information Act, also takes into account the business interests of a public company where appropriate. The legislator took over from the former Act on Freedom of Information (Ptk) 27. However, disclosure may not result in access to data, in particular protected knowledge - of course I have some idea of what protected knowledge means for you or for you - which would cause disproportionate damage to the conduct of business, provided that this does not prevent public information from being made available to the public in the public interest. As I recall, my fellow Member Tóth also referred to the current section of the Postal Act. The provision of the Freedom of Information Act and the provision of the Postal Law, cited earlier, enabled those seeking information on the dissemination of information in a previous case, for example, to be unsuccessful; quite simply because the provisions in force were also capable of protecting the business interests of Posta as a public service provider within a certain range. In particular, the Court of Justice has stated that there are indeed economic interests of the Posta in its activities which are not related to the public mission, which must be exempted from the public requirement, but that this consideration is perfectly carried out by the Freedom of Information Act. For example, in the case of the distribution of newspapers, Posta became a winner in substance because it proved it successfully [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that the publicity of pricing would cause a disproportionate disadvantage to the market for the distribution of newspapers with many players even then. Therefore, the current legislation is capable of achieving the desired goal, but your lies can be revealed on three points: they have no reason to defend national public services, they have no interest in achieving consistency, they upset consistency. This bill is against the law in all its flavors. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai. Here you go.
u2016-02-16-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to sell a bag cat, so I'd like to tell you right from the start that the Democratic Coalition doesn't support T/8829. Bill No. 1. Looking at the proposal itself, reading the not-too-long text and reasoning, it occurred to me that guiding governance, authoritarian control, more harshly speaking, is one of the characteristics of dictatorship, and the other characteristic of keeping information from the public. Over the past five years, the militia has been built in Hungary: Crown Guard, Palace Guard, Members of the House Guard, Acting without a judicial license, TEK, and I would like to add to this the various arms of the protection of the interests and the porporative nature, the Faculty of Civil Service, the Faculty of Pedagogism, the Faculty of Law. So, if you don't act at the same time, you don't get a rhyme by evening, bullying - this line has been quite well done by the pro-government representatives. [[15.50]] The other feature, which I mentioned, is keeping information from the public. In the last five years, we have seen on numerous occasions that not only ordinary mortal Hungarian citizens, but also representatives in the Parliament from the authority of Hungarian citizens, need to obtain information, but also to obtain the smallest and often irrelevant information. Meanwhile, you prefer to treat the state's wealth, the state budget, as if it were your own personal property. No, my fellow Members. The Hungarian Post Office is not yours, we operate it with taxpayers' money. You know, taxpayers who often scrape their last thousand forints at the end of the month to go into the store and buy the bun and pay the 27 percent VAT, of which a lot, not exactly what they should, but financed. Because there is money for a lot of things, but Hungarian families are getting less and less money for them. Why am I saying this? Because this bill, my fellow Members, has nothing to do with postal services. We heard from the author that otherwise this is as good as it is. We heard from the government representative that this is as good as it is. He, of course, sped it up by saying that the SAO is here, and then it checks things out. Secretary of State, you know who's in charge of the SAO. Who's standing? He's not an independent man! From there, from that bench, the President of the SAO sat in front of the SAO. It can be said that the President of the Republic will settle this matter. From there, from that bench, the President of the Republic sat in the Alexander Palace. It can be said that the Constitutional Court will settle this. No, fellow Members, some of them were your lawyers and, by the way, they were sitting in these benches. So don't come to me, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that, by the way, independent Hungarian institutions will settle these issues. No, you are one of these, I do not even say that you have derailed the Hungarian constitutional system, the Hungarian democratic institution system, the state apparatus and, by the way, all the institutions that would be meant to be able, on behalf of the Hungarian citizens and the Members of Parliament sitting in the Parliament, to check the steps that you are taking many times against the Hungarian citizens. As I said, this proposal has nothing to do with postal services. This proposal has to do with, I assume, knowing your activities, that this is the first step towards total encryption. Congressman Tóth has mentioned that he has an ongoing case, so obviously the retroactive effect is what we know. But basically, this bill is all about being tested now. They are trying to see whether the competition, the market, I do not know, under the aegis of property, this whole machine is to block as much information as possible from the Hungarian citizens and, obviously, the opposition representatives in the National Assembly. You are referring to the importance of competition because freedom of information is important. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you hate competition, you forge information, and you're terrified of freedom. So there's nothing, there's nothing in this information-free, competitive... I'm gonna add that they like property very much, to make public property private, to make it their own property. There is nothing in the world that would otherwise improve postal services in any way, and in any way make the activities of Posta more public and open to opposition representatives and Hungarian citizens. This proposal is only and only about making sure that everything is encrypted if possible. Of course, my fellow Members have already said that this is a fundamental attack on freedom of information as a fundamental right, because they are trying to make it impossible to obtain data that can tell us what machinations are going on in the background. I'm saying it's a machine because we've seen what they've done at the Hungarian National Bank, and we've seen what they've done at MVM, MET, and all the other organizations and businesses can be classified. Clearly, justice is not so much liked in this regard. The author himself has repeatedly objected to the activities of the Hungarian court. But let's face it, though, that while the National Court of Justice is at the head of a person who is under your full influence, there are still a few judges who say that, well, I will be at least a little European and a little democratic and a rule of law, and I will not give in to this incredible pressure. Well, with this bill, they're also trying to stop it. Not to mention that there is now a series of celebrations on the occasion of the black day of Hungarian constitutionalism, because they want to celebrate this horror, which they themselves call the Fundamental Law, most of all a fabrication, which is granite-solid, as they say, but I understand now they want to modify this granite-solid, I don't know what, man-work for the sixth time. It's even against the Basic Law they created. The President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information also said that there would still be something to do with this proposal, but as we have heard from the author, he believes that this is perfect as it is. I think that, of course, we can attempt to make amendments to it, but there is a problem with the basic proposal, the mentality that you represent in these matters. You do not want to amend the bill on postal services to make it better for Hungarian citizens. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to amend this so that you can be better off so that you can cover up more and more data. Obviously, this is a new tactic, although I can't even say it's new, because it's basically part of their whole political thinking to narrow down freedoms, including freedom of information right now. And, of course, the government representative hit civil society organisations. He forgot to say that, which is why I help: NGOs supported by György Soros, NGOs financed by the Norwegian Fund and, obviously, NGOs supported by the left; because they are often said. Oh, and Gyurcsány - I'd like to add that to make the picture complete. When civil society organisations act and speak on these matters, it is not because they have nothing better to do, honourable Members, but because that is what they have to do. As incredible as it is, their job is to read these billings by the way... [[István Apáti talks with Dr. András Schiffer.]] If Jobbik and LMP have finished their private dialogue before me, I think we can continue this conversation, Mr President. So, the job of these civil society organisations is to keep an eye on the incoming bill, and yes, if necessary, to criticise and propose proposals. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has also stated that they intend to apply this bill to pending cases; what is the reason, what are the things, what are the data, what are the information that they want to shut down and why they are preventing the Hungarian court from going through, for example, the lawsuits launched by Mr Tóth. If it were really the business secret for you, the Hungarian Post Office, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian citizens, you might say that they will form this law for the future. I would add that András Schiffer was right in saying that there are other state-owned companies outside the Post, where it would be worth looking at, but then it would not be the only law that should be introduced here, but the whole spectrum should be reviewed. I accept that there is a secret, there must be. Since 2002, I have been sitting on committees where we have met with substantial secrets. Of course, in recent years, we've seen things where there was no secret in the sky, only it was encrypted because then you could come out of the room and lie good, and I watched it myself. But I do accept that there is a defence interest, there is a national security interest, that it must be reviewed, and that there may be interests to be protected. [[16.00]] In this case, it is not a matter of trying to protect anything that, by the way, relates to national security or defence or, by the way, to public interest. It is not that they want to protect Hungarian families and Hungarian citizens. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik and LMP.]] Nor is it that they wish to protect the Hungarian Post. This bill simply shows that they are obviously trying to hide something. The thing is... [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Congressman Schiffer, we'll discuss this separately, if you like. [[Defiance. BOOKS: Oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, ……]] The thing is, today's the day to keep secrets. Today, all information can be blocked from voters and opposition representatives. [[Németh Szilárd István: It was a waste of furniture.]] But sooner or later, the moment will come when these contracts, this information, will be made public. This, which you represent, is the Hungary of the few. The Democratic Coalition represents the world of many Hungary. [[Interjection.]] As far as the fight against political corruption is concerned, our proposal states that these contracts, such information, must be made public as widely as possible, because this is in the interests of Hungary, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian democracy. Of course, you are not interested in Hungary, Hungarian citizens or Hungarian democracy. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] If you had been interested for a moment, you wouldn't have been able to empty your institutions, put your own stooges and paratroopers into different positions, become the Constitutional Court or the President of the Republic. I would like to say to Congressman Schiffer here at the end, because he said it very badly, if I recall correctly, about an impertinent lie. In many respects, you were right, Mr Member, about the brazen lies. I think that the pro-government representatives no longer hide their real intentions in this respect, and the essence of their political existence is simply that they stand up and say such things. However, I would like to remind Mr Schiffer that a lot of things are connected to a series of brazen lies. There's also a lie in Sukoro that doesn't make sense. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right. Why did you have to lie?]]
u2016-02-16-132	Welcome, fellow Members. As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr. [[Noise.]]
u2016-02-16-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Noise, Jobbik and LMP representatives consult with Dr. Agnes Vadai.]] I'm ready for it until I see there's some noise in the opposition benches, but, God, that doesn't stop me from saying what I want to say. [[Németh Szilárd István: István Németh. Defiance.]] Actually, my problem with this bill is that if it's to be classified, I can't classify it any other way, just because it's scandalous and shameful what they're doing. The bill itself is that the reorganization of the postal service or its revision is taking place in this new draft law, and in the meantime we are confronted with the fact that control of the use of public money and the other important moment, the recognition of data of public interest, are significantly restricted. The problem is, you may know and know what public money is, but you do not want to take this into account in terms of legislation, I'm almost certain of that. There are examples of this already discussed today, for example when we talked about the issue of tao. For a long time, they were considered to be donations from certain organisations and not public money for those who had to account for it. But another type of approach can be taken, it has already been mentioned in the case of the Hungarian National Bank. When there is profit, it is not public money; when there is loss, it will certainly have to be seen as public money and the Hungarian taxpayers will pay the story. So, the point is that you, the authors, draw and write the intention within the framework of the bill that you want to narrow down and limit the control of the use of public money in a clear way. That's insolence! But likewise, it is insolence that appears in relation to the restriction of data of public interest. If they wanted to talk about postal services and not about these two things, limiting them, they would have obviously talked about the multitude of questions concerning service providers and users, including what raised the income limit of HUF 2 million to HUF 5 million at the Post Office at management level; you would not have done this, you are carrying out the control of public money use and the quality of data in the public interest. I don't know what you're trying to hide, whether you're trying to hide what you said yesterday through the Prime Minister's mouth revealed that 1 million 800 thousand people in the national consultation received confirmation that the cost of this, let's say, how much such consultation letters went out and how much they received and what these costs look like. No! No, I think it's petty compared to what you're trying to hide. The problem is that there are far more serious issues here. It is no coincidence that many civil society organisations protest against this bill, the Company for Freedom Rights or Transparency International, or K-Monitor, or Transparent, and others could be said. It is no coincidence that Members are called upon to vote against this bill between Parliament's walls. Simply because of what I said earlier, they want to introduce significant restrictions in this respect on the control of public money use and on the availability of data of general interest. Whether this story is conscious or unintelligent, I prefer to explore consciousness, and not to say it in a good way, but to speak intelligence in a sense that, so to speak, should never reveal any of its categories. Don't let people see clearly, then there's nothing wrong, everything can be hidden and everything can be limited. I have nothing else to say, this is the peculiarity of dictatorships; it seems that in your benches the roots of the previous period are beginning to grow into trees and become sufficiently strong. The problem is that even in the framework of the Prime Minister's Office, there are those who, in the context of a committee meeting, are talking about the fact that this draft law broadens the scope of data that can be requested as a matter of public interest. Life basically denies all of this. I'm telling you, the questions that come out in this regard should never come out again. Posta is removed from the framework of the info law after the implementation of this bill. The problem is that, in addition to that, data requests are stopped even for pending cases. Why? What are you afraid of? Why should the knowledge of cases be limited in relation to pending cases? Or they may restrict or encrypt the knowledge of the data generated prior to the adoption of the law. Why? What are you afraid of now? Getting to know reality? Simply because you have to be able to account for the use of public money? From the fact that public interest data should be practically accessible? What's next? What's next? Next, after the Posta, the Hungarian National Bank will be taken out of the framework of the info law, either the Hungarian Electricity Works, or the Gambling Game or the financial service providers where there are 5 million HUF payments, in this sense, in the next step? What's next, what's next? [[16.10]] At least so far, you can say with a calm spirit, you could ask questions. Yeah, it wasn't easy either, but at least so far, you could ask. Now, I see the time for questioning is behind us. The possibilities of interest in or after the use of public funds for public companies or the State were given. Think back, that's how it came to light or so, in fact, what is the situation with regard to salaries, in terms of 5 million forints of money. Or it was the fact that various communication contracts or advisory contracts had come to light; about the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank what, by the time, how much could be spent or spent. This was how they came to light, but so did the studies of the Századvég, the many, many billions of forints that were adapted to this issue, so that they could become public, so to speak, known to people living in their everyday lives. There is nothing else to say, the process is visible, you can see what you have done in recent years: you have constantly narrowed the access to public money data. Think about it, think back to 2013. In 2013, when, if I remember correctly, 444.hu wrote that, if I remember correctly, I literally said:. Don't disturb me, I'm stealing! Don't disturb me, I'm stealing! He called the restriction that was introduced, which was related to the facts of abusive data claims, a law. But here's last year, 2015 year. I'm sure you'll also remember when further restrictions were introduced. You know, the one where they canceled the anonymous request for data. And they also know that at the same time only money could be provided, they could ask for information for money. But they also remember the summer of 2015 when the background calculations of the budget were made or withdrawn from the public interest data. What's 2016 about? We see the starting position, the withdrawal of a full company, Posta from the framework of the info law. And what will the future bring? As I have said, I believe that this can happen to other state-run companies where any process that you want to limit your knowledge of can take place. That's what's a shame, that in this sense, they think they can afford anything. There will be no public or public information in the public interest, which will become known. Once again, it is the effect of retroactivity that cannot be considered to be too fair with regard to the law. Retroactivity is generally accepted when retroactivity is established in the best way for their benefit, and not when it is at their disadvantage. This is what you want to do at the Post Office and at your subsidiaries with regard to the encryption of public funds. That's what they're doing, I can say with a calm spirit, an attack on justice. It has already been said here today, and I say on a confirmatory basis: yes, Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law makes it clear: public money and national property are data of public interest. Once again, public money and national wealth are data of public interest. You are going against what is set out in Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law. And you also need to know, and here I would like to read to you these two or three lines in detail, recorded by Dr. Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. This letter was written to Erik Bánki as Chairman of the Economic Committee:. The Authority welcomes first of all the fact that the proposal aims to ensure consistency between the Postal Act and the info law, according to the reasons added. However, the provisions of the proposal do not fully comply with the constitutional requirements set out in point 1. It doesn't seem to bother you at all. What doesn't or doesn't meet the constitutional requirements doesn't shake you a bit. Neither is the fact that, in relation to the reduction of freedom of information or the acquisition of data of general interest, the issue of controls on the use of public funds, which is reflected in the draft law, many people are protesting against - this does not bother you. Actually, in order to get a little further into this thing, I'd like to ask you a few questions. In the case of Posta, he is a practitioner of ownership rights, as I understand it, the Prime Minister's Office. And if that's the case, why isn't it the government that's submitting the proposal? Of course, the congressman has a right, and I'm aware of that, but why not? Why are they trying to encrypt the Post's activity? Why not the National Bank of Hungary? How many data requests do you have at the Post Office that are currently in progress during this period? It would be nice to know these facts as well. What are you really trying to hide? What are you so afraid of? What interests do you intend to serve? [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]] There are thousands of questions that make the adoption and implementation of this bill unfounded. Why don't you trust justice? Why? After all, in today's practice, the court, by reference to business interests, decides to set limits on the issue of data. Then why don't you trust justice? So, the point of the story is that what you do in this regard is really scandalous and shameful, and it's just - and I can't tell you anything else, and I can't feel anything else from this bill - it serves some self-interest, it's only in the interests of a narrow community, and it's not in the best interest of this society. However, if we are discussing a draft law on postal services, I think that it is in the interests of the users and should be addressed. And of course, it is also okay for the interests of service providers to be involved in this thinking. This is what should be done, and not what can be deprived of Hungarian society, either the possibility of access to knowledge or the knowledge of public interest data and the use of public funds. I'm sorry you're submitting such a bill to the walls of this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-16-134	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-02-16-135	Mr President, Dear House, The pro-government colleagues have specific self-control therapy. For some time now, they have listened to the critical comments that have been pouring towards them, and others, but they are not worthy to respond to them. However, the Secretary of State, like me, is very often in the gym, and perhaps there should be this self-control therapy, and not here, so much restraint. I understand that regular blood pressure is important, but on a strategic issue like this, you should take on that particular glove, and if you're right, stand up for it. The fact is that, by essentially removing Magyar Posta from the scope of the info law, they are still only doing one main test against the Hungarian national economy and against Hungarian society, since we can say that they are starting with a public company with less-minded activities, so much bigger problems could be expected if other companies were involved. But their justification is also false in that, where appropriate, they wish to protect or protect businesses with a public background, such as foreign influences, competitors, as the basis for this whole process is lacking. You still haven't put a reprivatisation strategy on the table to assess, for example, what public interests you want to regain, which you want to protect, at what value-for-value they do, as in recent years they have had an acquisition that has been carried out at a value of 2,5-3 times the market estimates. The Hungarian taxpayers' money was wasted because they failed to work out a strategy. Similarly, a lack of a national inventory of assets will be imposed on you until there is a substantial change in this area, and, unfortunately, since 2010, this criticism must always be said. And you can see that when you raise the fact that the next line can be MVM or MNB or Szerencsemény Zrt., you may not paint the devil on the wall, because this is how you typically do it in your legislation. [[16.20]] And let's not forget that the previous provisions on data of public interest, the possibilities to be closed now, have revealed, let's say, the salaries of state employees, the decisions behind the malltop processes, or just what the MNB's foundations spent and how much. And as far as the MNB is concerned, it is clear from the analyses available to anyone that since 2014, this company has already donated almost five billion forints uncontrolled, without any pre-defined rules, principles, and finally, it has been very difficult to ask the central bank how much it has spent in recent years. The so-called CSR programme, charity, for example 3.2 billion in 2014, 1.67 billion in 2015 and 28 million forints in 2016 have been donated, and this money has otherwise been partly committed to the additional revenues from the forint weakening and resulting in this. In our view, if, in the event of a deficit, the budget replaced the MNB, i.e. taxpayers would stand up for a similar surplus, e.g. resulting from foreign exchange movements, it would have been expected if it had not been the direct payment of the budget immediately, but at least the setting up of a compensation fund, i.e. once again on the basis of, say, the surplus resulting from the exchange of foreign currency loans, which could have been compensated by a compensation fund for those who have already been evicted or destroyed by certain banks and certain financial institutions, without their own failure. That this did not come up, and thus the government lied against its own promise, leaving crowds on the side of the road, is a historical sin, and it is simply its redemption that awaits you to this day. And it can be seen that the new law is trying to eliminate certain harms to business interests, but these harms of business are not certain to meet the needs of Hungarian society, because in fact, if someone is disturbed by the fact that they may find out how much money they make in public money, and say that the claim is HUF 5 million, then you are eliminating this disturbing factor. Only Hungarian society may be interested in this, and such needs of Hungarian society should, in a conceivable way, appear stronger in the legislative process than those lobbyists you are bringing in now, I say once again, releasing the spirit from the bottle. I mean, we're talking about company here, but who knows who's coming after him? By the way, I would ask you for a clear rebuttal here that if it can be said that you do not wish to continue this line with other strategic companies and other sectors, you will now declare this. We know very well that it may not be so, but at least take this timid step toward discernment, since their secrecy will be preserved. There's an amazing process here. By May last year, their decision to exclude from the public interest the number of backgrounds on which the budget is based. For example, on this basis, it was no longer possible to know what kind of background calculations you based on for all the family home-building benefits. And it is well known that this is true, because many articles, including the press analysis before me, are dealing with this, that, in fact, as the most natural thing, they have done so, but we can also see that this process, the continuous cuts, raise questions about the reliability of government activity, but if we consider that the liberalisation of public services, which has already been mentioned by several speakers today, is, in fact, a spill-over process against which we believe we should be fighting, it is not certain that you will choose the best direction for this, and it is not certain that the mass of information in which, say, we could defend ourselves against a mass of TTIP contracts, or a large number of multinational methods spilling in from overseas or Western Europe, should be locked away from the Hungarian national economy. By the way, we are very pleased that some timid separation on the TTIP has already been observed on your part this week, so as if they had said that they could not support certain of its terms. We would very much like to see this rejection position in official form, as we have not seen it so far, declaring, for example, that Hungary's GMO-freeness will not be threatened by signing such a madness, but we see that, as long as only these timid steps are taken, but such violent, unjustified cuts are being made, the flow chart points to the fact that we really do not know anything about the background calculations that establish the budget, so again they would just sign a blank cheque, and they would ask us to believe you again. A lot of people believed you, and the result is known. For example, they put it on their billboards to account for banks, and those with foreign exchange credit could tell a long story about how much this worked. So our request is that, even in addition to the amendments, if you would accept one or more of them, think about withdrawing this whole thing, because it is pointing in a very wrong direction. For the time being, only one company is trying to be excluded from the scope of the info law - this too is unprecedented, let us add, for the last ten years this would be one of the rapes of Hungarian legislation - but the fact that they do not have a reprivatisation strategy, there is no national property, there is no vision, there is no vision for the future and for the future, it makes the situation quite amazing, and we see that if your next victim is MVM or the MNB or the Szerencségy Zrt., then there is indeed a system of command in Hungary, the mister-brother system will continue, which the national economy will soon have to pay for. So far, she's just dehydrated, and it's still a good thing. So we advise you not to go any further on this path. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-136	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2016-02-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I used the naive assumption that there would be a debate in Parliament. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But in this debate, no pro-government has been able to speak. There's no argument about a learned monologue being told at the beginning and then reading it at the end. I expected that at least Imre Vas or János Pócs, if he had honored us with his presence, would at least defend the Fidesz position. Or Szilárd Németh will argue. But that doesn't happen either, so that's about how much you think about legislation. [[János Pócs: And you...!]] For three reasons, this proposal lies to the core... I would very much like to see Congressman Pócs press a button and argue with opposition arguments, tell me what he has against the public, for example. I'm guessing, for example, the cartel's big enemy. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] freedom of information and public... [[János Pócs: What an idiot! ...you can only talk like a parrot! Dániel Z. Carpathian: A real man hides in his laptop!]] The thing is... You know, Congressman, you can ask for a floor and speak in Parliament, that's why this room is here. Even if many of your fellow factions don't know that. The fact is that they have been exposed on three points, because you obviously have no interest in confronting multinational interests in the liberalisation of public services. It is also obvious that, when the proposal is introduced to a single sector, it is not about you wanting to protect national public services, and we have also demonstrated precisely that it is not about the consistency of legislation; it is, in fact, the legislative proposal, which is in force and which is already adopted by you, which is contrary to not only its basic laws, but also to other legal provisions. In fact, the fact that they are up to something wrong can always be read out of the person who made it, since the government did not present this proposal. It is generally known that if Szilárd Németh or Imre Vas is the author, then there is some underlying intention. After no arguments have been made in the debate, I will continue to use the suspect suit, as my fellow opposition Members have said here, that you simply want to get rid of certain lawsuits and do so by means of legislation. What Bertalan Tóth has already hinted at is that, in an ongoing trial, the continuation of the trial has just been postponed on grounds of illness, this is suspiciously coincident with this hastyly conspired bill, which has been put into effect in cases that are still pending. Stand up with the buttocks. Tell me exactly what you're trying to hide. I, unlike Agnes Vadai, think that you are really protecting the families, obviously that's why you brought this proposal here, but then come up with the name line. Which families do you want to hide? Come out with the butt! Tell me exactly which families, which clans we are talking about. Because it is quite obvious that, as last summer, the Freedom of Information Act was narrowed down in order to be able to rob freely, that is still the goal. They're up to something around the Post Office, I think it's not about basic public services, it's about something else. Come out, then. Tell me who, which families serve their business interests. Don't take anyone for an idiot. It is quite obvious that when public interest data are intended to be limited in an absolute disproportionate way by rushing to a single sector, including on-going cases, there are private interests here. You, in contrast to what the Prime Minister announced about this pulpit in the summer of 2010, put private interests ahead of the community interest. This is not about wanting to serve the community. [[16.30]] Dear Parliament, I continue to look forward to the answer to the fact that when the relevant provision of the Freedom of Information Act lists (a) to (h) the grounds for restricting freedom of information to a separate law, the basis for which this bill is based, because what can be read in the bill and its justification - if this can be called an explanation - does not correspond to any of the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. I'm really sorry that Vas Imre left, because I still think it might explain that this bill might be in the interest of defence? Is it for national security? Did it come in order to prosecute or prevent crimes? I think they're pretty creative, like they can put that in this passage. Is this proposal in the interest of the environment or nature conservation or central financial or foreign exchange policy? Foreign policy interests? In the light of court proceedings? We know that, of course, there is a judicial interest. Does the Postal Act intend to restrict freedom of information with regard to intellectual property rights? Don't mess with me. It is quite clear that the bill you have brought here is not merely contrary to Article 37 of the Fundamental Law, but contrary to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. These laws were made by you. So much for the fact that for Fidesz legal certainty is the safety of the few, and there is no constitutionality, precisely because for you constitutional rules mean so much if this is in line with their current power or business interests. We have also stated that there has been a final judgment based on the legal provisions in force, which, by the way, gave the Hungarian Post the right to retain certain pricing information. So that also disproves that you here would have fair reasons. The proposal that stands before us is practically a blank cheque, every inquiry, every request for data in the public interest can be rejected by Magyar Posta without practical justification. It is also a question of what you consider to be a valid justification; if you consider what Szilárd Németh has written here as a valid justification, then that is one thing. I am talking about the fact that, with this legal provision, they give a public firm the authority to hide anything from people, although this is in stark contrast to Article 37 of the Fundamental Law, it is also in stark contrast to the national wealth and information freedom laws that you have created. That is why we demand that this bill be withdrawn immediately. This bill, which has been put before Parliament, is an exact example of how Fidesz government legitimizes corruption. This is the legitimization of corruption, just like the Summer Freedom of Information Act amendment. Every move designed to prevent the connections of private pockets mixed with public funds from being used for the sole purpose. Yeah, they're right: the interests of families should only be named exactly which families they think of. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-138	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Valai.
u2016-02-16-139	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the head of the LMP faction, I don't think it's personal. The person of Szilárd Németh is not important in this case, but the position of the applicant. Your identity is irrelevant. I don't know who's with him. I don't think a lot of people would even talk to these people if they weren't MEPs, because the person is irrelevant. It doesn't matter. The position counts: a Member of Parliament and a Secretary of State. It's not a personal question. The faction leader is right in that perhaps, if such a bill is submitted by the government, it seems less puppeteering, but obviously the usual method has been followed. Someone somewhere asked the government representative to pass a law like this, and the government representative said it would be embarrassing for us, so we're gonna ask someone to turn it in. That is how this task came to Mr Szilárd Németh, who did not obviously resist. I think there's nothing wrong with that, it happens; we've seen worse in the past. The fact that the pro-government representatives do not speak here is clearly the reason why they know this, but I think that it is necessary to understand that such an attitude can be pursued. This may or may have worked as part of a tactic, because opposition representatives are talking about this very important issue here, because it is about freedom of information, not postal service, so let's face it again. However, it must be understood that the voters behind us would like to have a meaningful debate on some matters. I think it is a matter of fundamental rights, such as the possibility of getting as much information as possible in cases like this as possible from a Member, a voter, a citizen, I think this is an important issue. It may not be one of your national affairs, but I think that freedom in a world like this is an important issue. Not to mention, I would like to tell the pro-government Members that, of course, this is when we see the scornful smiles, this can be seen at committee meetings, but I will tell you that when we need the two-thirds support, they will sit with their eyes open and beg us to give the two-thirds mandate. My fellow Members, there in the pro-government benches, the three of us there, I would like to say to you that this does not work that way. So the way this works is to listen to each other, and this may be the way this bill is going to go, because you are ruling, but we must argue against what we are saying here in plenary. And it's not us. Don't take this the wrong way. I, as a congressman, wouldn't claim it so much. But because of the voters who sent you and us to this Chamber, they have to argue for these matters. Congressman Schiffer also said that I was wrong to say that you are not protecting the interests of Hungarian families; you are protecting Hungarian families, but certain Hungarian families. It sounds ironic, but I think it's a tragic impression of your government that a sentence like that can run out the mouth of a congressman, and not for the first time. Your governance, not even at the beginning, but then - and here I would like to quote Congressman Schiffer and several Members - has become so brazen that it is something amazing! You have been sent here by the electorate and given authorization, not two-thirds, to represent their interests. Compared to this, we know much more about non - families, networks of interests, and groups that surround the government. There is also a family in this, so make no mistake: Orbán family, Ripper family, but interest circles. And when my fellow Members ask me who's in the best interest of all of this, I would be ashamed, if I were you, of a teeny-tiny bit, of this kind of behaviour, although you are far from it, but I would at least think a little bit about why all Members, according to their temperament, are speaking of this bill because they have some ulterior motive. Not because they really want to improve the universal postal service, they want to make sure that I don't know whether the package or the letter gets there or not, or that the Hungarian Post is prepared for the competition. I would add that the competition is such that everyone there has to pinch themselves, and also those who are in a semimonopolise situation, have to pinch themselves a little bit. [[16.40]] Everyone sitting on this side of the horseshoe, in any opposition party, thinks there's an ulterior motive in the bill. And I say to the representative of the government, and I say to the author, that their silence is more than anything else. Sooner or later, we will find out who's interested in the individual who will eventually reach the leader in some way, because they shouldn't be wrong, so the end is that all roads in Hungary lead to Viktor Orbán. His buddy, his family bond, his, I don't know, vacation buddy, his one-on-one. And that's not good. It's not good for you, it's obviously good for you, it's not good for Hungary. This is so moral that the first moment we take in such a bill - not just us, but a lot of people who deal with it - it's not our idea that, come on, some of us are here, and they want something better for this country, but the thought that, come on, some of us are here, and they're trying to steal something again. And this, believe me, does not serve competition, freedom of information, freedom, the market economy or the majority of Hungarian families - and by no means do I mean clans and pillars of the Mafia state - or the interests of Hungary. And I would like to say to my fellow pro-government Members that it is not in your interest in the short, medium and long term either. They're all gonna be part of the criminal record they're gonna have to account for. Now, one of the three of you, I don't know which one of you, who is competent, perhaps the author, would you mind telling me the reason why you are now, like this, in this form? Why do they not trust in the functioning of the justice system, that it is able, for example, to decide such questions? What did the Magyar Posta say about this thing? 'Cause I think that's an interesting question. How many data requests are currently in progress with the Posta Group subsidiaries? Why would the activities of Magyar Posta be encrypted from this point of view? Or why did they start with the Hungarian Post? Then I think there's a lot of misconceptions that could be dissipated. I know that you do not care the least about what the opposition representatives say, we are used to the plenary sessions, the committee meetings, but at least a little bit about the fact that voters are interested in this matter. And there will always be those who want to know - with all due respect, that is why they are voters, and that is why citizens, if that word actually says something to you at all - because they are interested in this country, they are interested in the fate of this country, and not only in financial terms, but in moral terms. So I would suggest that we have a real debate on this matter here in plenary, and at least one such one-sided conversation, where you can either just smile or just whisper or just nod or eventually run out. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-140	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2016-02-16-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking you to tell me what you really want to hide and why you want to hide those things. Don't sit there like you've been mutely taken off in the benches, just say something. Speak, for simply so, without their opinion, without the release of knowledge, this bill is unacceptable! Public money is public money, public interest data is public interest data. You can do whatever you want, you can make any laws you want, you can encrypt anything you want, you can even encrypt pending cases, or you can also eliminate them in cases where questions have already been asked, whatever you can do, the truth will still be truth, and it will come out anyway. You know, when you no longer want to do something in economic interest, in any other interest, as my fellow Member Schiffer mentioned eight, but you want to prohibit everyone from having access to data in the public interest, so that you can control the use of public funds, you want to limit it to a level that is unacceptable, because the court itself, by relying on business matters, can still make decisions that, where appropriate, say that these data cannot be issued; then it is incomprehensible and unacceptable what they are doing. It's incomprehensible and unacceptable, so to speak, it seems mindless. What they do is self-dangerous for themselves, not for the benefit of the people. And I'm not going to do repeats. When it comes to postal services in the draft law, it's not about postal services. This is not about denying the use of public funds, it's about denying access to public information. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-16-142	I am also giving the floor to Mr András Schiffer in two minutes.
u2016-02-16-143	Thank you, Mr. President. After we don't get answers, so I'd like to put it on the table, see if there's any chance there's a connection between the current bill and the fact that this week's dismissals started at the Hungarian Post Office. Is there any connection between the current bill and the fact that today the Postman Trade Union website has seen the news of mass redundancies? So, while there's this bill that allows you to steal the Post behind a curtain, you're making mailmen runaways. No connection? Or are you not aware that the Hungarian Post is launching a mass dismissal? And let's keep going. I've given up trying to embarrass you here with all kinds of fundamental rights and morals, because I can't do that. Let us be clear: the money you want to spoon out of Magyar Posta Zrt. will be missing and missing when, for example, small post offices should be restored in the countryside. Remember? When MSZP-SZDSZ eliminated the mail, you supported the protesting small settlements from opposition to reopen the mailboxes, as well as the youth schools. Where's this fidesz protest today? Today, there is no money to provide free, easy access to the Internet in small settlements or to re-open small mail because you are stealing this money. In the same way that there is no money for wage increases anywhere else in the country today, there is no money today for the development of the local economy, as is the case, because these funds are being stolen. And they can steal effectively if the citizens don't see into the different dark transactions. That's what I'm talking about. So once again, I would like to ask the representative of the government to clarify the link between the mass postal redundancies that began this week and the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-16-144	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh.
u2016-02-16-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To the last speaker, I would like to say that if Mr Schiffer is aware of a crime, and stealing is a serious crime, the Btk. it is discussed in several stages, then a report must be made. If you don't press charges, then you're committing a crime, and technically, what you're accusing us of, you're doing it. On the other hand, I would like to say that I would also like to have a sensible debate on this bill, which, in the absence of dyslexia, seems to be because, if we look at the norm and the reasoning, it is not the same, not even in its quantity, but it is not the same in its text at all. It takes a very serious misstep to read the same text from the norm and to see the same meaning as in the reasoning. On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear that, because lies can be told here in the walls of this House unpunishedly, and that practically without any responsibility, orbániktor, orbán, without any heartache, you can have your fellow Members, Mr State Secretary, our fellow Member, Imre Vas, or even insult and insult me, this does not mean that you are right on this issue. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I defended him!]] [[16.50]] The raised tone of voice and the continued self-expression and expression of self-gratitude, the expression of their pc-hungry does not mean that they are right on this issue, but that you are in a different political position, if you like, of a different opinion than the national or government opinion that supports the author. I asked myself the question the moment I saw the opposition unit breaking down a little, because Ágnes Vadai and András Schiffer were so cute about a little interlude. I almost thought there was going to be domestic violence, but luckily, we avoided that. I asked myself what we had experienced, how it could be that Gábor Vona, Ferenc Gyurcsány, András Schiffer and János Kádár's successor party are now on a platform on many, many issues. I think the answer to this is quite clear: the hunger for power resulting from a miserable long opposition existence, and the indicators of opinion polling, which are a very bad message for all opposition parties, are pushing you into one platform, and practically nothing else, your position on any public issue is not to shoot the government and shoot the Fidesz the way it can. It can't be easy to keep this community of interests together, but it looks like we're going to make it. Most of all, I am surprised that the Jobbikon is no longer a question of transparency in the functioning of the courts, of the overpower of the judges, of the constitutional amendment, and now of the amendment of the Postal Law, which is otherwise known to be extremely liberal, extremely left-wing, as the congresswoman said, they are standing behind what we have heard as NGOs supported by György Soros or the Norwegian Fund, Transparency International, K-Monitor, Átlátszó.hu or don't give a djsság a TÁSZ. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these organizations have never served Hungarian interests, never in life, and in every subject, in the reduction of fees or in illegal migration, they have always served foreign interests, and never in the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families. They have been responsible for a number of cases involving the launch of EU infringement procedures. When we find that ten victims of the Red Sludge Disaster are acquitted when we see that the Metropolitan mob boss, Miklós Hagyó, gets away with his whole act with a suspended sentence, when we find that there are judges who refuse to apply the laws in force, where are these defenders, where are they afraid of legal certainty and democracy? Once again, I would like to say that this amendment is nothing more than to try to remedy the situation that the postal service market has been liberalised in Hungary since 2013; this has been fully completed in 2015 and that in this liberalised market, where very serious and capital-powered opponents have appeared, Magyar Posta, owned by the Hungarian State, and the related companies which also operate postal services owned by the Hungarian State, are required to be present in the universal service on the one hand on the basis of a contract with the Hungarian State. It also states that except for data relating to postal service contracts established under the universal postal service. Therefore, public money data and all universal service contracts and related data are available in this respect. The only thing I wanted to achieve with this bill was that, in the competitive situation, the Hungarian Post should not have to go uphill, but straighten the track in some form. That is why I asked you a good two and a half hours ago - and I think that this proposal was quite professional, because I justified everything I did in my proposal to amend the law - to try to deal with this together and try to serve Hungarian interests, the interests of Hungarian people and the interests of Magyar Posta by adopting this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-16-146	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We've reached the end of the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, who will give his speech with the title "Report on the Colonial."
u2016-02-16-147	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow members of the Government must be very tired of constantly confronting you with the promises you have made earlier. But this is such a sport, so let's take out a not-so-old saint of István Jakab, because repetition is the mother of knowledge, and let's see what he said. For those living in the countryside, it would have irreversible, fatal consequences if the state land were sold by the government. We have said many times that the capital forces at the bids decide who gets the land, and obviously everyone, except the government, has made it clear that in terms of capital power, large owners, and not small farmers with the crimson palms favored by the government at the level of words, have an insurmountable advantage. But let's look at Somogyország's tidings of NFA and county government office data, as well as the New Faithful Colony. In Somogy County, 9659 hectares of state land were sold at 592 auctions out of the nearly 12,000 hectares of land for auction, with an income of some HUF 11 billion 900 million for the government register. It should be noted that a third of this amount, i.e. 10 out of 4 billion, has been bought by interest with the palm of the hand. During the parliamentary debate on land auction, I asked the poetic and, of course, unanswered question: what small farmer can buy the 189 hectares of Göllei and 187 hectares of Adamic land, which is also a criminally beat to the drum, starting from a bid of 382 and 345 million forints? The latter, by the way, was eventually taken for 431 million forints in the village area, for a total of 680 million, by a shopping, busy-crushing small farmer. But I'd like to quote one more thing. Of course, it is possible to twist and twist that this is not how it should be understood, but a good five years ago, Viktor Orbán promised at a Magossal Assembly in Hajdúböszörmény, you can be sure that, as long as he is in the Fidesz government, foreigners in Hungary - whatever they decide in Brussels - will never buy land. How did it happen that no, the Belgian Claessens family, which had been farming in the South Somogy region for about two decades, managed to obtain some twenty-four Iharosberény, flea, Nagyatádi and Somogyszobi estates for HUF 840 million? Therefore, in the case of merci beaucoup or Flemish origins to the government, the thank-you dank je wel. And the grazie mille can sing loudly, too, because what failed in 2014, as an Italian farmer, to get the 107 hectares next to your feet, has now come together. In fact, at that time, 135 million forints would have been added for the land, but that must have been an incredibly high price on the part of the natives, so the state now saw fit to give it about 60 million forints cheaper - once more, just to make it perfectly understandable - the land that had previously been saved by the NFA, so to speak, on a better initiative, from foreign acquisitions. Now they gave it to me with a big discount. [[17.00]] What can we say about all this? Just what we said from the beginning, that in this dark game, the real farmer society is merely a beautifying bush on that government hat that covers so much filth. But also to place a real authority on the table:. State-supported land speculation is one of the worst areas of conflict between the interests of local communities and speculating capital. The end of the process is a vulnerable rural and economic society, and the security of food for society as a whole is at risk. József Ángyán wrote down his opinion on the land auction that was interrupted for Christmas in a few weeks. In the light of the outrageous court decision of the Red Sludgeper, it is no longer surprising that the Curia declared the privatisation contract concluded in 1992 for 99 years, whereby Hubertus Bt, owned in Germany, was valid. For just 10 forints per hectare, the area of the Nagyberek was rented for nearly 8 thousand hectares. I understand that the cost of managing water at an annual cost of approximately HUF 30-80 million and the cost of maintenance and renovation of the 100-year infrastructure puts a heavy burden on the foreign company, and they believe that this is only compensated by ridiculously low rental fees. Let's just say that they have about a billion shares in the agricultural register, they don't really like to talk. But on that basis, following this logic, an ad could be posted in one of the great Western newspapers, and it could be drummed up, and the whole country could be trashed. I'm sure there'd be all 9 million 300 000 hectares of ingenious foreign investors, let's say a little naughty György Soros, who would take on the country's operation and real estate management for a symbolic HUF 10 per hectare for a total of 93 million per year. We're not a colony? Yes, you can. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-148	Mr Lajos Kepli has applied for a statement following the next agenda: Will there be justice in red sludge? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-16-149	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, you have run out, but you are more enthusiastic. Well, we understand that, too. The day came when a judgment was given in the case of the red sludge disaster. And only deep shock is the appropriate term for what happened in the courtroom that day. As we all know since then, all 15 defendants have been sentenced. Jobbik was there, and I myself, as former chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on the Red Sludge Disaster, was present at the announcement of this outrageous judgment, and I also voiced my objection, or, if not, by presenting a picture of a molino, for which, obviously, I was led out not only of the courtroom, but even from the courthouse. It is therefore strange, when our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, makes concrete arguments in question that Jobbik would have sided with the court in the case of the red sludge disaster, whether in the last few weeks, or in the Hagyó case or in any other case, when a judgment was given that did not meet the sense of justice of society. Well, that's not what happened. Technically, before they woke up the next day, we didn't say that we had forgotten, because unfortunately, we couldn't forget this outrageous judgment, but we were already at the next step, and by the time they came out to hold a press conference that they were actually condemning and talking about the partiality of the courts and all that. That's not what we were talking about. We acknowledge the independence of the courts, if there really is one, we acknowledge that politics, legislation, cannot interfere with justice, that the branches of power cannot intersect. At the same time, our objection must be expressed when, obviously, a judgment is passed that does not meet not only the sense of justice of society but also the truth itself. However, for a year and a half, we conducted an investigation in the framework of a parliamentary inquiry committee, and obviously not by means such as the National Bureau of Investigation or the Public Prosecutor's Office or even the court, but with our own tools we have clearly and clearly revealed that the cause of the disaster is the cause of MAL Zrt. is responsible for his leadership, and we continue to maintain this statement to this day. This report, in which we described it, was adopted by Parliament with almost complete unanimity at the time. It is therefore my duty not only as a better Member of Parliament, but as former President of the Commission, to take this path that we have begun and to stand for the truth of that report. After all, the main body of popular representation, the report adopted by the Parliament, was the voice of the people, when we said it, no matter what broke the wall of the reservoir, let them understand this phrase in quotes. The question of what was in the reservoir, whether the owners should have stored such corrosive toxic alkali in such quantities, is clearly not the answer. And no one ever denied it. Everyone was concerned about what broke the reservoir and whether it was the operator's responsibility or the designer's responsibility. It may be the responsibility of the designer and the designer that can no longer be placed on the bench of the defendants, because either he is out of date or he is no longer alive or we do not know what is with him, but it is certain that the operator, if he does not use that reservoir as intended, is responsible for the act or the event that occurs. Because it wasn't the dense sludge that killed the ten people, it flooded three settlements, but the large amount of thin alkali, but it was also very concentrated and corrosive alkali, which was on top of the red sludge, not a foot and a half thick, as it is in the permit, but in some cases 6-7-8 meters thick. I have said it many times on all kinds of forums, unfortunately the judgment does not reflect any of this. The Court has taken into account expert opinions which support the innocence of the accused, and has not taken into account any expert opinions which support what I have previously said. We hope that we can only hope that the Győr Court will change this as a second-degree authority, and that it will make a more acceptable judgment for society and for the sense of justice of the people. We have told you several times, I myself, but we hold only a strict sentence of contempt for all defendants who have actually been in a decision-making position and who have contributed to this terrible disaster; for sin cannot go unpunished. We will continue to work in this spirit. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-150	Mr Sallai R. Benedek, also spoke after the last agenda, with the title: "Learnings of the Red Dipper." You have the floor. [[17.10]]
u2016-02-16-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is indeed difficult to leave this judicial judgment and what is happening here in this country before our eyes, because it is clearly the symptom that we are experiencing now that there is always a profit in this country, but there is no owner of trouble, no responsibility, and this court judgment supports this. Let me give you five numbers. A million cubic meters, that's all that spilled and contained chemicals that weren't supposed to be there. It's a river, this Tarna, whose entire life has been destroyed, which we don't usually talk about, because there's been much more damage, but it was remembered by a river after all. 40 square kilometres, which had to be completely reconstructed and rehabilitated and had a long-term impact on the habitability, market value and quality of life of all living in the affected area. Forint 38 billion, that's what it cost the taxpayers, the Hungarian public, to be able to do at least the most necessary recovery processes. This is what Hungarian taxpayers have paid for the irresponsibleness that happened there. And ten lives. That's exactly what it cost, and that's what - these five numbers - at the moment, according to the court's judgment, has no responsibility. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, has discussed the responsibility of MAL Zrt. in full detail with a historical overview, but at the same time we obviously need to look at the whole matter here, how the responsibilities are still to be borne, and everyone has to look for their own role in this. Obviously, I and the May Other Politics have also been saying from the beginning that we must also take a look at the responsibilities of the authorities, because each of these plants must examine the technical parameters of this, and the technological background of its operation must be controlled. Here in the previous proceedings, there was also no responsibility, and even to this day there is still official work by persons who have not seen any danger in advance. However, we also need to talk about the responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament, because it has been the fifth year since the Hungarian environmental protection, the government's ambition to preserve Hungarian natural resources and natural values has been in deep flight, since not only the system of institutions has been rebuilt by the Fidesz administration, but also the sector itself. And he's doing it all the time, because last year, he just shut down the environmental inspectorates and practically melted everything into the government office because they know everything at the government office. Obviously, for this reason, we in Parliament must, as legislators, examine how legal guarantees can be created so that such accidents do not occur, such disasters. We need to look at how to move the proceedings of the courts in a clear direction which, in the legislative framework, excludes the possibility of not being responsible. And we need to see how these procedures can be prevented. The May Other Politics presents proposals in many ways, the amendment of the Btk. is not primarily ours, but in this case, last week we presented an amendment to the Btk. with András Schiffer Group leader, which is clearly about the accountability of those authorities who indirectly contribute to the occurrence of such disasters out of consideration or blindness. And there is another proposal that I would like to suggest to the attention of the honourable Parliament, and this is the introduction of the environmental liability insurance system, because as long as it will be a common practice, it will be financed from public resources for each environmental damage, while businessmen put it in their pocket during the profit process, this system will not change, and there will be no willingness to prevent any operating plant. And the terrible thing is that we are not talking about just one incident, but at the moment we are talking about 20-30 plants, reservoirs like Scented Roads that can potentially pollute at any time when simple weather factors determine whether another disaster will occur. At the moment, we are not doing anything to prevent it, and the government is looking at it with sinful irresponsibleness, and it provides neither resources nor professionals to do so. The environmental liability insurance system could be an important step, because insurance professionals, after such damage, which has occurred at the moment, would probably pay more than HUF 38 billion, after not wanting to pay for it, with a greater conscience on how to prevent it. Although, obviously, I realize that the solution would be to have a normal government for the country once, where official procedures would ensure that they happen on their own rather than to think in a pipe-end system. I wanted to draw the Parliament's attention to this, and I would ask you to support our proposed amendments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-16-152	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:13 p.m.]]
