u2016-12-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 33rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and István Tiba will help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting address was put forward by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, with the title of "destruction without reason." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-13-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In these days, this country will experience the second PISA shock after the change of regime. There's a lot of shock in everyone. In fact, the shock is not because we have not seen the mistakes or even the delays to be made and the tasks to be carried out, the amount of tasks to be carried out, but the extent and speed of destruction are quite simply astonishing. I'll tell you the truth, I didn't expect such a fall myself. It has now become clear that the scale and speed of the fall show that teachers and our education system as a whole have lost their immune system to the stupidities of politics and politicians. Beyond the shocking results, there is only one more shocking thing, and that is the devastating fidestic reactions to PISA results. If I take into account the logic of politics - and why shouldn't I take it into account? - and the calculation of the practicality of politics, then your reaction is simply exhausted in the three of relativisation, denial, and scapegoat training. John Lazarus blames only teachers for the results. In the same logic, József Kaposi, president of OFI, does not see any errors in the silly textbooks. It's quite simply astounding as they deny reality and try to explain the obvious unexplainable now. Because it's possible to say that we have good teachers and less good teachers, and I'm sure there are some lousy teachers in this country, but there's one thing you can't do: you can't pretend now that you weren't even there, like you weren't here. Because the results show errors, even system failures, which are already largely caused by you. By now, you have not become the solvers of the problems that have already existed in recent years, but the main cause of it, and even in my humble opinion, you are now the main problem. Terrifying scapegoat training, on the other hand, points to something far deeper in this country, which actually shows the political and I think I can say the human difference between us and you. Instead of immediate scapegoat training, we real politicians believe that the essence and meaning of politics is to bring out the best in everyone; we bring it out of people, including our teachers, our children and essentially the whole country. Infinite faith in this is the meaning of real politics. What you're doing right now and in the last few years, the diversion, denial, scapegoating and not taking responsibility, it's not politics. What you do is a disgrace to politics and politicians. And finally, to take away knowledge from children, to take away their future; now, this is true treason. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-13-2	Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to answer. You have the floor.
u2016-12-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, What's shocking? When there are good and worse educational survey results in the PISA, TIMSS and OKM surveys, or when 17,000 teachers are released, will education in Hungary end in 381 places? While textbooks are increasing year after year [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't you have a better answer?]] There's not a free meal for everyone in school who needs it, and besides, they're taking a month's wages from teachers, and they're just on cocoa-proof computers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You haven't bought a new one since!]] Well, you decide which is the greater shock of the Hungarian education system. If you look at the results yourself, honourable Member, you were talking about falling. In some respects, the scores have indeed fallen, but there is another part, your party partner, István Hiller, quoted the interpretation of the text on yesterday's meeting day among the interpellations. He said that there was a period - every three years, this survey - when he rose and read it triumphantly, but he did not read the result of the three years that followed. Then there was a 12 point decrease during the same period. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Did you subtract two of them? When was that? How many years?]] You can see it from this. They are happy to quote the two surveys that are positive, but the ones that followed the 12 points decrease are not quoted. The performance of Hungarian students has indeed deteriorated in natural science and understanding. This, as we have said, is something that we want to deal with specifically and specifically with the actors of education, parents, teachers, students, school leaders, all other experts involved in education. In mathematics, however, the 21-point fall that occurred during your period has stopped, and fortunately now there is stagnation. We hope that this will be the beginning of a positive process. If you look at the PISA results at an international level, in the case of Poland, the United States, Australia, the Netherlands, Austria, all three of them, both in science, text understanding and mathematics scores, but even for many of us, for Finland, mathematics has reached minus 8 points, text understanding plus 2 points, and science has achieved minus 15 points. So, in many countries, there have been a wide variety of results. Nevertheless, we need to focus primarily on our own and on what justifies the results of science and text understanding. The reason is that we have converted, and now we have these surveys not on paper, but digitally. You can also remember, honourable Member, in 2008-2009 we have a similar pair of testers when students completed the same methodical test on paper and digitally. It is not even the surface that is the only important aspect of this that is read from paper or screen, but that after reading on the screen they cannot go back to the previous questions according to the software. There was also a significant difference between the two results. It is also worth looking at the influence that this has had, but the introduction of broadband internet in all classrooms by 2018, which has now reached all schools, will certainly be able to improve these results. You know that Hungary's performance has improved in both mathematics and science in the fourth grade and eighth grade based on the other survey, mainly on lexical knowledge. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They're good at biflancing.]] So there are results that are improving, there are some that are deteriorating, so before the entire Hungarian education system, as a teacher, as a school principal, starts to bury MSZP, I think you should give it [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Ágnes Kunhalmi: János Lázár buried them in one minute!]] the Hungarian Socialist Party. Do not consider yourself the sole depositary of education, for this will be a smile from the electorate. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are on the government!]] rather than helping teachers and students to do their own work in calmer conditions. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And indeed, there is an OECD average of 5 percent, but we trust that the background, the additional resources that the government provides for education, public education in the previous years and the following year, this is an additional HUF 104 billion in the next year, which is a sure foundation [[Zoltán Grimlock: No copycats yet!]] This will also help educators to further develop themselves, and to pay greater attention to children, so that these results and other outcomes can improve as much as possible. [[9.10]] Let us not forget that students who participated in this survey spent almost eight years in the previous NAT system and only nine months in the new NAT system. With the Klebelsberg Scholarships, free textbooks, free meals and mandatory kindergartens from the age of three, we hope that these numbers will improve in the next three years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-4	Thank you. Mr László Szászfalvi applied for the next speech before the next agenda: the year of 2016 on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As we approach the end of the year, everyone looks back and makes a balance, so it is in our personal family life, but it is also in the lives of businesses and communities. It is therefore not only our duty, but also our duty, to look back on the last day of the meeting for the year that has passed, and to balance the important events of the year. The parliamentary faction of KDNP regards the country as the most important result of the last year to preserve the safety of the Hungarian people. The measures of the government and the Parliament, as well as the decision of more than 3.3 million people in the October referendum, protected the safety of Hungarian people and families this year as well. Security is the fundamental value of all of us. Dear House, This security is the basis for achieving extremely important social policy objectives within a stable political, economic and budgetary framework over the past period. The labour market situation is constantly improving, with 4.4 million people employed, with an increase in employment of 680 thousand since the government change in 2010. Employment has increased by 126 thousand in the last year, the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.9 percent, while the EU average is 8.2 percent. In parallel with this process, real wages increased on average by 15.4 percent between 2010 and 2015, with more than average purchasing power for multi-child workers, 20.6 percent for families with two children, 42.6 percent for families with three or more children. Real earnings increased by 7.5 percent in the first eight months of 2016 compared to a year earlier, with real wages rising by 24 percent overall compared to 2010. The government's ability to directly influence wage developments is in terms of minimum wages and in the public sector; there is no time to explain in detail all these government steps that have been taken recently and are well known to everyone. The KDNP faction welcomes the government's agreement with legitimate workers' and employers' organisations, as a result of which the government provides employees with extremely significant wage increases and an existential vision both through minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage and public sector workers' careers. The 2016 budget was a budget for tax cuts, with a reduction in personal income tax rate of 15 per cent and an increase in family tax relief for two children. Reducing its key to 15 percent reduces the tax burden of more than 4 million taxpayers by HUF 120 billion per year. Dear House, In addition to all these measures, KDNP considers the measures taken in the fields of job protection action, Gyes, Gyed, Gyed extra, family taxation and the catching-up of disadvantaged areas and layers to be of particular importance. These priority issues included the purchasing power of pensions, the provision of free children's meals, the provision of free textbooks and the establishment of a new system of family home-building benefits, to which the budget will spend HUF 365 billion in 2016-2017. I also have to mention the adoption of the law on the introduction of family bankruptcy protection and the protection of pensioners, which tightens the display of goods, and the decision to condemn and support the persecution of Christians to be adopted today. Dear Parliament, Based on all of this, we have done a lot of work this year with modesty, but with good conscience. These results are significant successes, everyone could take a step forward this year, but we still have a lot of work to do in the coming years. The KDNP parliamentary group considers that the greatest value of the work carried out is that it has not been achieved with newer and newer government borrowings, and we have achieved these extremely important social policy objectives not by increasing public debt, but by working together with the Hungarian people. On behalf of the KDNP, I would like to thank everyone for this joint effort and for their work, and I wish for our future task in the festive period ahead and a good rest. I wish all of us a blessed Christmas celebration and a successful, successful new year! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-6	Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to answer. You have the floor.
u2016-12-13-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, thank you for your good wishes. Who will graduate next year as an 18-year-old, although an average Hungarian youth graduates at 19.3 years of age, but who will graduate next year may say that the number of children per mother or a married couple in Hungary has never been as high in his life as we are now in Hungary, as we are making an 18-year record in Hungary in terms of demographic indicators. The so-called fertility rate, which is now 1.44, is an average of 1.44 children for a father and a mother, if you can put it that way, has never been this high, and we remember even in 2010, when it moved around 1.1, that was the demographic low point in Hungary. This is a very, very happy news, I think, but it is equally important that the number of people exposed to deprivation has been decreasing since 2012-13, now year after year in Hungary. If I look at only the most recent data, which are data from surveys carried out in the same way in all countries of the European Union, can be compared with any other EU country, the same methodology, the same data collection, we can see that the number of people exposed to poverty or social exclusion has decreased by 194 thousand in one year. So for those who are at risk of insecurity, the number of those who live in extreme poverty has fallen by 194 thousand, who are exposed to the greatest deprivation, and in one year we see a change in the number of those who have really suffered a great deal of misery by a hundred thousand people. Fortunately, they are now able to live a little better, thanks to this tax reduction, which is due to the creation of jobs, thanks to public employment programmes as well. [[9.20]] And obviously, if parents themselves are less vulnerable to deprivation, so is the case for children. Fortunately, there we can report one of the greatest reductions, as the proportion of children exposed to poverty or exclusion has decreased by 2.5 percentage points between 0-17 years of age. As more and more income remains for families, the financial situation of children is likely to have improved even more, as while the exposure in adults has decreased by 1.9 percentage points, children have reduced child poverty by 2.5 percentage points, i.e. to a greater extent than poverty has generally been reduced in the country. One positive source of this could be that women's employment has also reached a record since the change of regime. This rose to around 50 percent in 2010 and to 60,8 percent in September 2016. When we are talking about a shortage of labour, it is very important that we can offer the mothers the forms of work, telework, part-time work, flexible work that their expertise appears on the labour market, but they can also deal with the child. Their spread is visible from 10.8 percent, from 50 percent to 60.8 percent. Obviously, the extra possibility of the child contributed to this, as 29 thousand people took advantage of this new option in addition to the child or the kid. Your brother was used by 18,000 people. In 2015, these numbers generally increased - because the previous ones were in 2014 -, the Gyed extra in 2015 gave a discount to 59 thousand parents, 35 thousand as jobs near children, and 24 thousand as siblings. The best targeted and best successful form of family support is clearly the family tax and contribution allowance, as it helps 94 percent of households with children. 94 out of 100 Hungarian families can make use of this, and more and more year after year, because since 2013, the amount that a family can use, the amount of money that remains there and does not take away from the state, has increased by 20 percent. In 2015, a family could use an average of 228 thousand forints, and this year it could be up to 244 thousand forints. The first married couple's discount - which is new - was also used by many, 21 526 people. I think it's a huge amount of money that we could use to help the first married and not just the family with the child. If we look at the CSOK's claim data, they have really appeared in Europe as a novum that thins the pair. There were 20,000 applications received between January and September 2016, 16 thousand contracts were concluded, and we were able to support families' homes with 42 billion and more than 42 billion HUF 43 billion. I think it's a nice scale of the year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-8	Ms Erzsébet Schmuck asked to speak before the next agenda with the title of another wasted month. You have the floor.
u2016-12-13-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, today is the last day of Parliament's autumn session, and a balance should be drawn. We see that the autumn session can be divided into two very different stages. In the first phase, the government did almost nothing, and in the second, it tried to repair its own damage in recent years, but chose the wrong means. At the government level, the beginning of autumn was about a completely unnecessary, pointless, hate-hating and, by the way, a referendum campaign costing tens of billions. The LMP has said many times in the campaign that neither the referendum nor the subsequent constitutional amendment will solve the problem of the refugee crisis, so the LMP has not been involved. Already in these months, the LMP has been dealing with people's daily problems and talking about how to solve them, the ever-increasing emigration, the associated labour shortage, the wage crisis affecting millions, the disintegrating health care system and the broken education system. A few weeks later, we proved ourselves right. The referendum and the amendment of the Constitution have failed. With the failure of the referendum, people sent a clear message to the government. Perhaps this has caused the government to notice what the LMP has been talking about for years that today in Hungary the wages of the lower earners cannot be earned. Perhaps because of the failure of the referendum, because the elections in 2018 are approaching, the Prime Minister stood up almost without any precedent and said that a wage increase was needed, because this is how Hungary's competitiveness can be increased. He has done this, who has done almost everything in the past six years to curb domestic wages, who consciously destroyed employees' rights, to make workers more vulnerable to multinational companies, who, with the introduction of a single-key tax, took more than a hundred billion forints from the worst earners and gave them to the most capable. According to the government, wage increases have been made possible by the success of economic policy over the past six years, but we know that is not the case. Nevertheless, it could be welcomed that the government has now at least noticed that hundreds of thousands of people are migrating and millions of people are deprived of wage cuts, but unfortunately, so-called solutions are likely to do more harm than good. The government is now only capable of brazen and flawed correction of a bad economic policy. In preparation for the 2018 campaign, another hundred billion will be scattered along their own misguided thinking, while this money could really eliminate the wage crisis, stop migration and rebuild the country's systematically destroyed competitiveness over the past six years. However, this would require a complete change of direction rather than a correction. First of all, it should be stopped serving the interests of foreign large companies unconditionally. These companies always come here because of cheap labour, so if we really want to get out of the downward wage competition, they cannot be based on growth. For this reason, it was completely wrong that even in the current package the largest 1,300 companies would receive the largest tax relief costing HUF 100 billion for the budget. According to the LMP, the subsidies should have been used to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. We also need a real turnaround in wage policy, because only it has a spillover effect on the economy as a whole. If the government uses all available means, it is necessary to raise the minimum wage in one step above the minimum wage so that it does not constitute a wage cost for Hungarian small enterprises. The unfair and bad single-key tax system must be abolished, and the wages of civil servants must also be significantly increased. Indeed, there is a need to improve the country's competitiveness, but to do so, we need to increase the resources for education and replace everyone involved in the education reforms of recent years, because that may be the biggest failure of the entire Fidesz government. And eventually, we have to shut down the public money taps. We see that the government's measures that have just been announced are very few to solve the real problems and expensive to start a campaign. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-13-10	Thank you. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2016-12-13-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He gave the address of his speech that he had wasted months and spoke in this sense. The LMP may have wasted months behind it, but I don't think that can be said for the country. Millions of people worked in 2016 to strengthen this country, and I think that we have taken steps in the right direction in this area. I'm sorry that you didn't say anything about the things that mattered. Allow me to look at a slightly wider period. When the government presented this year's budget last year, it said that it was a budget for home creation and tax reduction, and it was a success. It was a budget for home creation because this year the new home creation program received a new impetus, and perhaps it is not indifferent to you that more than 30,000 Hungarian families could claim a home creation discount. This is also a great help to less wealthy families, by the way. As far as tax reductions are concerned, tax relief for families with children has increased again in January this year, as will be the case now in January. Personal income tax is now 15%, which, regardless of the size of the action, is much lower than in the case of left-wing governments. As of January this year, the VAT burden on the Internet and the most important food will also be reduced. The decisions on these were also made in the months that you called wasted months. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition to the goals of home creation and tax reduction, the aim of wage increases was also well established. What we want is not only for everyone in this country to have a job, but also for everyone to be worth working for. [[9.30]] Accordingly, higher wages have been paid in recent months, or higher wages will be paid by government officials, district officials, cultural workers, post-secondary daycare workers, higher education teachers and researchers, law enforcement workers, teachers, doctors and nurses. It is difficult to say this in one breath, but this should be our biggest problem, honourable Member. I would particularly like to point out that doctors will be able to take 207,000 forints more home, and nurses will take 65 percent. I raise this because you yourself have shown a keen interest in the issue of health care. Of course, wage increases must also affect the market sector, which is why we can be happy that next year the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent and then by an additional 8 percent in 2018. This is an 88 percent increase compared to 2010, i.e. 88 percent increase. That is why it is an important development that the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 25 percent next year and then by another 12 percent. At the same time, it is also important for businesses to be able to manage this, small and large, so employers' taxes are reduced by 5 percentage points, and therefore the corporate income tax is reduced to 9 percent, which will otherwise be the lowest in Europe, small and large. These tax cuts, I would like to say, were not voted for by the LMP; they were not voted in favour. You did not vote for Bernadett Szél, Ákos Hadházy, Benedek Sallai, István Ikotity, and you did not vote for it. They did not say no to the government, they did not go against the government, honourable Member, they said no to Hungarian businesses, they said no to them, both small and large. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think there's a debate between us in principle, and it's gonna stay, and it might not be bridged. If someone takes the trouble to look through the LMP's not-so-many, few-point program, one thing is marked by a tax increase, one of its drastic types. You're looking for a multi-key sja again. We know what that means. We remember well what it's like to have a 38 percent key in the sja system. You are crying back this period, and you are enriching those who are looking for people around the average and who could still have more wages. I think it's incredibly insensitive. If any of their plans were to come true, it would again destroy the Hungarian middle class, including many LMP voters. Don't do this. The government is stubbornly sticking to the policy of tax reduction, which is the only way to make Hungarian businesses competitive, thus maintaining wage-raising programmes. Let us not turn back to an era, I ask you, which has not brought much good for Hungary, only high taxes, lower wages and fewer jobs. We do not expect the government to applaud from morning to evening, but I would like to ask you not to discuss the country's achievements in recent months, not even because there are millions of people and millions of Hungarian families in it. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-13-12	Thank you. Mr László György Lukács has now applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that you will not receive the muzzle mentioned in the title, which is undoubtedly one of the main characters of today's news, Mr. Marcsi Broker, who, as you may have heard, from the Central American Paradise in Belize, seems to be on his way home, as he has caught this woman in a decade-old financial scam and who otherwise damaged nearly 800 people in the area of Karcagon and Karcag, causing damage of nearly HUF 20 billion. I think this is the most important thing, and it will have to refer to the lack of a muzzle to find out what the details of this series of crimes were; whether they were involved in government circles, and hopefully we will find an answer to where the 20 billion forints that he had pocketed were found, and which seems to have gone completely elsewhere. Well, this muzzle is not only typical of such cases, but also of the hospital director's circle involved in one of the biggest health scandals in the past week. Unfortunately, the State Health Services Center sent a muzzle using communist methods to the hospital directors, placing a muzzle on them; precisely so that they would not be able to declare any cases, any maladministration in their hospital, which, unfortunately, we see, occur on a daily basis. It is precisely with this secrecy that the government seeks to create intransparency. If we really need something in health care, whether it is the financing of health institutions, whether it is the wages of health workers, working conditions or even the situation of patients who want to heal in health care, the most important thing we need is transparency. The lack of transparency reduces the trust that patients, workers, are putting in health care, and that essentially holds health together in its entirety. We can safely say that the attempt to combat transparency embodied in the muzzle is XX. It's a hundredth-century secret, XX. It covers political ambitions of the 21st century, even though it is the 21st century. We're in the century, and the patients are in the 21st century. They need 100th-century health care. What is going on behind this phenomenon, and the reason why the muzzle itself belonged to the hospital directors, the unfortunate deaths that did not occur in hospitals in connection with the operation of health care, whether in Győr or in an institution in Budapest, but unfortunately, these were deaths that appeared, apparently, due to the looseness of control, the lack of cleaning, but, if you will, due to the dysfunction of the entire institutional system. These cases are not really health, but they show that health care is under increased pressure. In the past six years, since the Orbán government has been authorised by two-thirds to put the country's affairs in order, and thus the health care sector, there have been shortcomings. For example, the government could not remedy the indebtedness of the institutions. Although there is always a new source in the system, it seems to me that the management of the institutions always recreates this debt for some reason. The government has not been able to make our health care safer, which is also a requirement for transparency; to know the conditions under which patients can heal, what they can expect from that medical team what they can expect from that hospital. But for example, the government has not been able to correct the tragically bad health indicators that Hungary is currently struggling with. Now we are there, and people themselves feel that something is wrong in health care, because a poll has shown that most of the people, even two thirds of them, in a fidesz language, have created a new unit, so two thirds of people believe that health is perhaps one of the worst sectors in the country, or the worst sector in the country. In fact, two thirds of them believe that the quality of health has deteriorated in recent years, for which, although it can be pointed backwards, and obviously Bence Rétvári will do so, but whoops, Mr. Secretary of State, whoops, these are six years of data from your ministry, the six years of activity of your ministry that you are facing. So the repositioning, the blame for the problem on someone else, it doesn't make any sense now, they've issued your certificate. Overall, health is in a situation where crisis stories emerge daily, and the government should work not only to avert them but also to increase confidence in health, not only to increase confidence in health, but also to destroy health by further pushing for transparency. We propose that you move away from this plan immediately and make it transparent not only for the management but also for the full functioning of health institutions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-14	Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to answer. You have the floor.
u2016-12-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know why you brought it up in the health care business, Mr. Broker. It is certain that during the 15th Táncsics körút, if you would show up near your former office.. [[Dr. László György Lukács, Balázs Ander and Dóra Dúró intervene.]] So it's enough to look out the window of your own office, and to see if you can find out if Broker Marcsi is popping up. As you've seen for years, when he was working there, if he showed up there, you'd see it now. Please consider this further if you have been able to operate in a building for years. But seriously, if we look at the amount of the health fund now and look at the beginning of the government, because you wanted to cut the balance of six years, honourable Member, we can see that while the health insurance fund was around HUF 1500 billion in 2010, this will go beyond the limit of EUR 2000 billion in the next year's budget. [[9.40]] This is a kind of surplus that shows that every year this government has put additional resources in the health sector in excess of inflation, and even in excess of the last few years. This is said not only by the government, but not only by the budget numbers, honourable Member, but also by the latest OECD statement and the latest country report, Hungary has increased its health expenditure by 1.2 percent of GDP between 2010 and 2015. The surplus, the HUF 171 billion that comes to health from this year to next year, can be measured in an additional order of GDP, as it represents an additional resource of 0.5 per cent of GDP in healthcare. These extra resources ensure that hospitals are able to operate, operate better, and perform healing work better. In addition, wage increases are important, as a good part of this HUF 171 billion next year, HUF 82 billion will be spent on healthcare wage increases. In the case of doctors, a HUF 107 thousand increase has already been made from 1 September this year, which will increase by another HUF 100,000 next year, and in the case of nurses there will be 26,5 percent and 12, 8 and 8 percent wage increases this year, as has already been said, a 65 percent increase overall. Breaking this down to a specialist's basic salary, for example, after 30 years of employment, it can no longer be less than HUF 546 thousand, or for a nurse working for the same amount of time, the increase is HUF 88,000. These therefore serve both to improve the financial recognition of health workers and to increase the sources of health care. You mentioned cases from Jahn Ferenc Hospital and Petz Aladár Hospital. If we look at how Jahn Ferenc Hospital's annual budget revenues have increased, we can see that the hospital has received more than a billion forints. From now on, how well you know and how much you cannot organize the hospital's cleaning, internal control, control, is already the responsibility of the hospital's management. Here, the cleaning was arranged for a company called Profi Comfort to do this work on a regular basis. The regulations were in line with the recommendations of the National Centre for Epidemiology, but this is the case that when the investigation is over and it turns out exactly how much time that body spent in that bathroom, it turns out whether the hospital's management has complied with the requirements of the National Centre for Epidemiology, which, as I say, the hospital has more than a billion forints a year now, many other tasks than before. But from now on, this is a matter of hospital organization, as the government has been able to provide additional resources to this hospital. Petz Aladár Hospital has received 13 684 172 455 HUF development resources in recent years. The body that was found there wasn't in the hospital's medical building, it was in a rented section of the building where there was a sports organization. But it is also obvious that it will be the responsibility of the sports organization to see how well he himself managed to maintain the property he owns. So I see, Mr honourable Member, that, although you have never supported this in the budget, neither wage increases nor surplus health resources, you have managed to increase these in health care. In fact, at the end of this year, we will also provide the hospitals with an efficiency-enhancing, structural change source of HUF 15 billion, in addition to the usual hospital consolidation, which is now almost as usual, with the possibility of converting debt-generating structures and debt-generating parts from money to hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-16	To speak before the next agenda, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi came forward with a new title on wage developments. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-13-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, let me remember that the civilian government and the civil alliance behind it have been constantly replacing the resources taken from health care during the governing of socialists and liberals since 2010. [[Dr. László Varga:]] It is evidence that Hungary's biggest hospital development program was implemented with HUF 500 billion, and so far we have spent HUF 300 billion on wage management for healthcare workers. In addition, the number of patients on the waiting list has decreased by half, and after the change of government, the greatest development of all time has been achieved at the National Rescue Service. Our goal - and our goal in the future - is to allow health workers to take a step forward in the coming years. We will therefore launch a multi-annual payroll programme. We would like doctors and nurses to take a step forward in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The sectoral wage increase will be carried out in 2016-19 as follows. The salary increase will take place in four stages, with an average increase of 26,5 per cent from 1 September 2016, 12 per cent from 1 November 2017, 8 per cent from 1 November 2018 and 8 per cent from 1 November 2019. This affects more than 79 thousand employees in total. For example, the basic salary of a nurse employed 31-33 years of employment increased by HUF 35 thousand from 1 September, with a total gross increase of HUF 88 618 by the end of the wage increase programme, i.e. HUF 228 thousand. The basic salary of an anesthesiological assistant employed in 16-18 years of employment increased by HUF 47 thousand from 1 September, with a total gross increase of HUF 103 thousand by the end of the wage increase programme, i.e. it will increase to HUF 238 thousand. Thus, the workers' wages increase by 65.5 percent on average in the period 2016-19, as Mr Secretary of State has already said. The workers' wages, if compared to 2012, will double on average in the period 2012-19. Residents' basic wages will rise by 50,000 forints from next November. In the case of specialists and hospital pharmacists, wage increases will take place in two steps. In the first stage, they increased by HUF 107 thousand gross from 1 September 2016 and then their basic wage increased by HUF 100 thousand gross from 1 November 2017. The basic wages of doctors and hospital pharmacists - we are talking here about non-graduating class H payment class - will rise by HUF 50,000 gross from November 2017. Doctors' wages thus increase by 56.8 percent on average in the period 2016-2017 and will increase by 27 percent in 2016 and 29.7 percent in 2017 as a result of the increase in wages, i.e. by almost 30 percent. Let's compare again to 2012, because in 2012-13 there was a wage increase in health care, then on average the basic wage increase was 27 percent. Compared to current medical wages, doctors' wages will also double on average in the period 2012-17. During the sectoral wage increase, the basic wage and the mobile wage elements related to basic salary - this is an important issue, many asked: on-call fee, standby fee and overtime fee - will also increase. On the basis of the above, healthcare workers will receive a wage supplement for the months of September to December 2016 as the first step in wage-raising measures. The first payments were made in October 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, Our goal is for health workers to take a step forward, so their wage development will continue in the future, as well as those of teachers and as well as those of those working in the cultural field. Thank you very much for the sacrifice of healthcare workers, and we also wish them a peaceful, blessed Christmas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-18	Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to answer. You have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2016-12-13-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, After the teacher's wage increase, the government decided to launch similar wage-raising programmes in all other sectors where it has the opportunity to do so, thus, in addition to the 170,000 teachers, it will increase the salary of 97 thousand health workers, the salary of 93,000 social workers, the salary of 14 thousand higher education workers, and, according to the latest announcements, the salary of more than 20,000 people working in culture. In recent years, it has been seen that in Hungary, who is looking for a worker, he is now most likely to find himself, as employment figures are at an unprecedented height: 4.4 million people work, which is 680,000 more than six years ago. This is supported by a record low, 15 percent personal income tax compared to the previous one. This increased the purchasing value of the actions by between 7.5 and 8 percent, and that is exactly what trade traffic has increased. Real wages in Hungary have been rising steadily for four years. For four years, it's been worth more and more of every man's salary every semester he can bring home. This means that since 2012, the value of people's money has increased by 15 percent; they can buy 15 percent more things than they could buy from their salary before they took it home. If we look at it by sector, we can see that in the cultural area, as I said, there will be an average wage increase of HUF 27,000. If I look at its maximum value, it may increase to up to HUF 55,000, but in the case of secondary graduates, they can receive a salary supplement of approximately HUF 15,000 in the region and of HUF 30,000 in higher education in the next period. The congresswoman explained very in detail what positive changes the next year will bring to health workers. Overall, doctors can talk about the increase in wages over several years and the doubling of salaries in the case of nurses. In the social field in 2014 and 2016, we provided a sectoral wage supplement, which allowed their wages to increase by an average of 22 per cent, with HUF 31 thousand. But if I look at a specific example, a child inspector with a professional degree, who has been on the field for 37 years, will receive more than HUF 36,000; a college graduate family carer, so when he starts his career, he will receive HUF 43 700 more than in 2013. A career-starting social advisor, when he starts this activity, makes 52,000 HUF more than he used to make when he started as a career starter. And here comes the additional increases from 2017 and 2018, which will increase the gross average earnings in the social sphere to 208 thousand forints and 233,000 forints. Wage development has already started in higher education, with a 15 percent wage increase in 2016, followed by an additional 5 percent wage increase in 2017 and a further 5 percent wage increase in 2018. This means that a university teacher who is in grade 3 will increase his gross salary from HUF 437,000 to HUF 528,000. In the case of educators, there has also been an increase in teacher's wages for several years, every September. Overall, the average wage increase will be 50 percent. In the case of a teacher with 18-20 years of experience with university education, his salary increases from 172 thousand to 304 thousand forints. This is a very noticeable increase, I think, for everyone who works in the education sector. If we are also talking about children's educators in kindergarten in relation to the extended career model, we can see that the young child with 18-20 years of experience will receive HUF 257 instead of HUF 190 thousand, then HUF 274 thousand, but also a young child with secondary education will rise from HUF 153 thousand to HUF 170 thousand next year. It can be seen that both in the market sector, due to tax cuts and minimum wage increases and in the public sector, there is now a marked increase in wages for everyone, and we hope that by Christmas everyone will have more, whether working or retired. This is how I wish everyone, members of Parliament and everyone else in this country peaceful, unpoliticated, pleasant, blessed Christmas holidays. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-13-20	Ladies and gentlemen, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr István Tiba to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2016-12-13-21	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of László Tasnádi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, will be terminated with effect from 10 December 2016. Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-12-13-22	Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/13269. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/13269/2 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and the summary report is T/13269/3. You can get to know him on the network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2016-12-13-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. The appearance of settlements is a key part of local culture. The place where we live determines the everyday moment of our lives, it has a significant impact on quality of life and on the vitality of settlements. The need for a quality urban environment is becoming increasingly pronounced for municipalities as well. The Law on the Protection of the City Image wanted to draw attention to these new aspects by defining new principles. The aim of the already adopted law is to appreciate the development, activity of the Hungarian settlements and their natural environment, and by legal means support the efforts of the settlements to develop a quality residential environment, to improve the built and natural environment, to preserve historical value, to protect unique architectural character and image. In the light of legitimate expectations, we have extended urban planning's toolkit focusing only on land use control, urban environment planning, infrastructure development, and this has been complemented, focusing on the quality requirements of architecture. In addition to the definition of the new instruments, we support the settlements, together with the legal instruments, with HUF 3.5 billion in total, to make use of the possibilities of the new instruments; with a wide range of social involvement, they can draw up the municipal image manual and define the local provisions with the essential requirements for aesthetic environmental design. In this planning process, it is very important to damage the values of the living environment as little as possible, to maximise the benefits and to rethink and, where appropriate, to exclude any advantage. The latter can be seen as an obvious example of the increasing size and number of advertisements and the equipment bearing them, which have a significant impact on environmental quality and which reduce landscape damage in urban sights. Dear House, For many years, legislation has dealt with advertising in economic and consumer protection aspects. As a result, economic interests and the advertising market have taken over urban planning and their needs have shaped the image of the settlements. With the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the City Image, this situation has fundamentally changed, as the law has given settlements the tools to shape the visual environment. It entrusted local authorities, inter alia, with the definition and enforcement of advertising requirements. Given that the subject matter has a direct link to a healthy environment, rules on fundamental rights and obligations are laid down by law, the full regulation of the subject matter of advertising cannot be transferred to individual municipalities, it has become necessary to clarify and supplement the regulation of the law on advertising, advertising and posters. [[10.00]] Since the publication of the Law on the Protection of the City Image this summer, the Prime Minister's Office has been in constant consultation with professional and representative bodies. During the discussions, special attention was also to be paid to advertising issues. These professional discussions have convinced us that advertising, the regulation of their appearance, has a fundamental weight that must be dealt with by law. The primary objective of the bill before you is therefore to harmonise the wide range of aspects of advertising placement and urban image protection, to approximate the position of advertising and Community interests and, not least, to create a reasonable framework for advertising tools that have a negative impact on the urban image. The aim is also to establish a stable legal framework for advertising-related construction activities, while cutting red tape. For reasons of simplification, the law is not burdened with technical details, such as physical and formal requirements. The detailed rules are placed in a government decree and the local specifications are included in the municipal regulations of the municipalities. It is not negligible that the process will result in the aesthetic, harmonic and safe environment becoming a value-enhancing factor in the lives of settlements. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Specific amendments to the bill include, for example, a principle requirement, that, in order to protect the image of the settlement, it is noted that advertising and advertising from public areas should not disproportionately affect or impede the value of the settlement, its architectural image, its size and its quantity should be reasonable in terms of settlement image. The bill also strengthens the protection of protected settlement areas by prohibiting the placement of advertising media and advertising in highly protected areas such as the World Heritage Area, the conservation of monuments and nature conservation areas in Natura 2000. It protects the owners of the territories by concluding a contract for the placement of the advertising medium for a maximum period of five years. It protects the owners of private areas by ensuring that no more than one advertising medium may be placed on a property, unless otherwise provided for in the Municipal Picture Regulation in respect of certain areas of the municipality. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the Government's decision, in order to preserve the distinctive and valuable image of the Hungarian settlements, to protect the built and natural environment in a healthy manner, and to align advertising activities with the Community interest and to bring them within a reasonable framework, please support the bill with your vote. Mr President, thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-13-24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2016-12-13-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 12 December is the House Rule 62. On the basis of Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in the light of the rules governing the exceptional procedure, the Court discussed the protection of the municipality's image in LXXIV of 2016. T/13269 amending Act No. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own proposal, which contains only codification and language positioning clarifications. The aim of the bill before us is to supplement and resolve the rules on advertising, advertising and posters in the administrative area of settlements. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-13-26	My fellow Members, here are the speeches from the Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor first to Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-12-13-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As an architect and city engineer, I am particularly pleased with the current amendment of the Law on the Protection of Municipal Image. The fundamental right to protect a healthy environment also mentioned in the Fundamental Law includes not only the protection of the natural environment, but also the protection of the built environment created by man's creative work. The already mentioned law on the protection of settlements provides for comprehensive regulation to shape the visual environment of settlements in the long term, in this connection essentially entrusting local authorities with the definition of municipal visual requirements for the placement and use of advertising and advertising equipment in the public area of settlements. One of the basic locations of human life is the urban environment, which has a significant impact on quality of life and the viability of settlements. One important element of this is the appearance of the built and natural environment, the aesthetic quality of the external image of the settlements. This quality is seriously affected by the increasing number of advertisements and advertising equipment appearing in Community spaces and public spaces and in many cases boasting. In many cases, this is already on a scale that already exhausts the concept of visual pollution. To date, the mere economic interests and the needs of the advertising market have been the most decisive elements in the development of visual elements affecting the image of the settlements. The legislation in force covered advertising only in terms of economic and consumer protection aspects. In view of the direct link between the subject matter to a healthy environment and the fact that, under the Fundamental Law, the rules on fundamental rights and obligations should be laid down by law, more detailed legislation is also required in relation to the requirements on settlement image based on the previous introduction. It is therefore appropriate to supplement the law on the protection of the settlement image with regard to advertising, advertising media and posters in the administrative territory of the municipalities. The primary objective of the bill before you is to create a reasonable framework for the placement and design of advertising tools in public areas or public areas of settlements, which are in private areas, which are detrimental to the image of the settlement. Furthermore, it is a task to align advertising activities with Community interests and to provide a legal basis for all this in order to preserve the image of the settlement. On this basis, the aim is to implement a stable, legally based regulation that establishes a reasonable framework for public advertising. However, the detailed rules that can be considered technical are not included in the proposal, as they will have to be laid down in a government regulation. Local authorities should also have the possibility to define the sub-rules applicable to their competence in a municipal townscape decree. Dear House, This initiative is not unique in the world, and we really want to join the ranks of countries and settlements that have been trying to clean up the settlements of visual pollution for ten years. In fact, it is typical of large cities that there are various advertisements and valuables in public areas, and this new concept has emerged, the concept of visual pollution. In 2006 the Mayor of the Brazilian city of São Paulo announced the clear city movement of the clear city of São Paulo as a radical response to this problem. The package of measures that had been developed has banned a significant proportion of advertisements and advertisements from the Brazilian city, making buildings visible again and greatly reducing advertising noise. 15,000 billboards were removed from the public squares of São Paulo, which completely changed the cityscape. [[10.10]] The Brazilian city summarized in a great video how the view had changed, always compared to how it was, and how it turned out. I think you should take a look at this video for a few minutes. In addition to the Brazilian metropolis, they also took similar paths in Europe. In France, outdoor advertising platforms are regulated by national law, for example, on monuments, and in their 100-metre radius, it is partially prohibited to place advertisements, while in the case of settlements under the ten-thousand population, the placement of certain large-scale advertising media is completely prohibited. In Barcelona, advertising intensity is regulated per zone. There is a complete ban on advertising in and around historical and cultural areas, including parks and cemeteries. Only street furniture and surfaces managed by the municipality may be advertised in restricted zones. Dear House, In addition to the basic objectives and principles of the bill, it is set out in an annex that the priority areas which are particularly protected from the perspective of the urban image are identified. This is worth listing in order to inform the public, so that we can see the areas that we really want to protect. 1. is the territory and protection zone of the World Heritage Site. The 2nd is the area of the monument and the area of monument importance, the area of the historic environment. 3. The historic memorial and national memorial sites. 4. An area of historical garden and historical landscape. 5. The protected cemetery area. 6. The area of archaeological value and the archaeological site. 7. Area of protected value of local importance. 8. The Natura 2000 area, the area of the national park, the area of landscape protection, the nature conservation area of national importance, the protected area, the core area of the national ecological network and the ecological corridors. 9. The landscape protection area, the area of the unique landscape value. 10. Nature conservation areas of local importance and protected natural values. If it's my own constituency, it's XV. I am thinking of a district, which has created a quite excellent regulation on the protection of value, and it turns out that a very significant part of the district will be included in the regulation of this law. However, this bill also states that the contract for the placement of the advertising medium may be concluded for a maximum of five years. This ensures that there is a time limit in this area. It also specifies that no more than one advertising medium may be placed on private property, unless otherwise provided for in the Municipal Picture Regulation. An important element is that the proposal does not affect the provisions on road advertising for road safety purposes. These are aimed at road safety, i.e. safety of life, and, on the other hand, advertising rules for transport and roads are well balanced and constitute a strict and coherent system. On this basis, the proposal ensures that the requirements for advertising equipment and advertising for road safety purposes do not conflict with similar municipal rules. The proposal provides for a specific fine to sanction infringements of laws and regulations. The fine will greatly help to comply with the municipal image provisions relating to the placement of advertising media and advertising. The penalty can range from HUF 150,000 to HUF 3 million. In addition to the level of the fine which may be imposed, the competent authority shall be determined. The revenue generated by the fine will be the revenue of the municipal sub-scheme of the general government. For reasons of legal certainty, the proposal defines the terms of advertising, advertising media, posters and public space subject to the amendment. Under the Advertising Act, commercial advertising can be regarded as advertising, having regard to certain exceptions for which the rules of the Act do not apply. These are: the company sign, the business sign, the other inscriptions placed on the property in which the company is used, promoting the business and other graphical representation. I note here that it would also be good to draw up regulations or to put out applications for which, for example, Article XV applies. In the district of Rákos út we will launch both portal and sign competitions. It shall not apply to commercial advertising placed in the store window, to commercial advertising on the vehicle, or to advertising placed by the owner on the property for the disposal of the property, or to small advertising placed on the surface provided by the local government for the placement of retail classified advertisements. The proposal also sets out the rules for introducing new advertising rules and transitional rules for existing advertising media. New advertising media may be placed in accordance with the provisions of the bill and the legislation issued for implementation. The advertising media already in place before the entry into force of the law, which do not comply with the new rules, may be used to publish advertising by 31 December 2020 at the latest on the basis of the contract in force at the time of the entry into force. On the basis of the proposal, local authorities are obliged to adapt their regulations to the legal requirements by 1 October 2017 and to review their existing licensing contracts within 90 days of the entry into force of the implementing regulation of this amendment. If the amendment of a contract or the conclusion of a new contract in accordance with the legislation fails, it may terminate its contracts in force. The proposal states that organisations in the public and municipal sectors should only be allowed to use advertising media in accordance with the legislation. The bill empowers governments and municipalities to develop the necessary detailed rules for implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the Government's decision, in order to preserve, develop, protect the typical and valuable image of the Hungarian settlements, protect the built and natural environment, and align its advertising activities with Community interests and bring them within a reasonable framework, I would like to ask you to support the bill by voting in favour of São Paulo, Barcelona and the laws prepared for the cities there. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-13-28	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-12-13-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, as I am watching his manifestations on many development policy issues. We also agree on many issues, if any. However, today's exposé was living proof that as Secretary of State, you can't always choose, even before Christmas, what kind of topic you're going into. I also listened with great interest to the lead speaker of Fidesz, who continued in a similar tone, talking about São Paulo, Barcelona, the need to protect the settlement image. Obviously, this could be agreed, but if, before Christmas, the Parliament negotiates such a proposal in an exceptional procedure, please allow me to try to talk a little more about the deeper reasons for this, or to start a common reflection about it. Mr Secretary of State pointed out that there were serious professional discussions here that preceded this proposal, which was very long, which had been very long, and that many opinions had been incorporated. If these discussions have been so long and very professional, then I do not really understand from this aspect why it is necessary to bring in something in an exceptional procedure. In particular, it is not that its effects can really be felt and interpreted from the autumn of 2017. It is, therefore, more to the point that there is something to be done in this bill, which, on the last day of the sitting, is in the mood that, for example, the speaker before the Fidesz agenda wished for a merry Christmas at the end of his speech, in this mood, there may be less communicational noise to be done. In other words, the topic of public speech will be less the real reason for the amendment. [[10.20]] Because the real reason, I see, is that it is not the clear city principle, nor the example of São Paulo and Barcelona, not the protection of the settlement image, the elimination of visual pollution, but the transformation of the advertising market here, that a transformation should take place, and that such a process should start, and then end, even though the 2020 deadline in some parts of the proposal should be completed by the autumn of 2017. That's your goal. After all, what is happening is that, in fact, the interests of a major contractor with whom you previously had a close relationship are being barred from the advertising market, and today we can see that there are serious conflicts with the Prime Minister. In this context, in a completely absurd way, they are actually creating a legislative monopoly, creating a legislative monopoly around the government, the government will regulate the advertising market with the help of a fully Orwellian authority. To use Mr. Secretary's sentence, then the government can tell me what is aesthetic and what radiates harmony in a given settlement. Obviously, it's ridiculous that, let's say, the government or an authority it creates would have the most information about it. It is probably not a coincidence that these issues have been regulated by local authorities in recent decades. If such an ad market carrier, such a product, say, irritated the settlement image, so if it was not appropriate and the residents did not like to say so, they obviously had a way of doing so, the local authorities managed such aesthetic environmentally polluting advertising market products. However, that is not what the proposal is about. In fact, the proposal now involves these types of advertising media in private areas, arbitraryly, applying a rubber rule, resulting in an arbitrary practice of law enforcement, which, obviously, in relation to the reasonable level of advertising, to quote such another subjective element, will result in only kissers having access to the advertising space in the future. The autumn 2017 date is not a coincidence in this regard, either, because in the spring of 2018 there will be parliamentary elections, in Hungarian, the state in which advertising companies and advertisers that do not please you will be excluded from the market, and you will have the right partners in the market, and this process will certainly come into play in the parliamentary elections in 18. You could say that if you have this kind of conflict with Lajos Simicska, then perhaps it is not worth entertaining the Parliament and the whole country here before Christmas, discuss this, for months and a half or two years. They didn't. We could say that, and we could deal with that, if we were not talking about a question that could affect the purity of the choice, and not about a question that could, in fact, affect people's everyday lives as far as their absurdity is concerned. Just think that the otherwise also subjective and disproportionate fine, which was actually created to crowd out advertising users, could also be imposed on citizens. After all, the proposal actually penalises private advertising, or, let's say, the placement of an advertisement note in the same way, let's say, a note on which a citizen advertises a property, or a citizen advertises a sublet; the same items may apply here, and very serious penalties may be imposed on a citizen if he places a note. Here, by the way, in the event of a crime, if you immediately remove this kind of sticky or advertising from the perpetrator - that, let's say, in a slightly absurd way - you can be exempted and only be released. How lifelike is it that when a public authority investigates the most serious and very serious crime in a given settlement or investigates a very serious violation that someone has posted a note like this, how lifelike is it that he will catch you in the act? Obviously, it is not lifelike at all, so this exemption is incomprehensible in this way. In fact, I can also say that in the life of citizens, a completely ordinary question, in Hungarian, that an advertisement like this is being posted, is being sanctioned to the extent that, by the way, an entrepreneur with whom they have quarreled is being pushed out of the market, which is unacceptable and unviable. Obviously, the limitation of the powers of the municipalities in the given area is also so; there can be no other reason than that, if a given municipality would not otherwise wish to participate in this game, it should not be able to afford, otherwise, a wider range of advertisers, if appropriate. So the proposal is clearly for party policy purposes, so the timing is clear before Christmas. We must ask ourselves once again for the exceptional procedure, because it is not the first time that topics of this weight are introduced in this form. The proposal is nothing more than to transform the advertising market before the parliamentary elections in 2018; I could say that if Simicska can no longer kick the ball, Andy Vajna will be prepared. Discuss your problems and don't burden the country's population with them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-13-30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-12-13-31	Good afternoon. [[Defiance.]] I'm sorry... I very much welcome the House, the President and the Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to reply to Tamás László that he introduced visual pollution as a concept for us here in the legislation, and in this connection I was reminded of another, intellectual pollution, which the government itself had done not so long ago, when he wrote with eloquence on large blue posters that if you come to Hungary, you cannot take the work of the Hungarians. After that, just a month or two, another, let's say, has committed ethical environmental pollution by establishing the number of third-country nationals working in Hungary in 65 thousand. I think you feel the huge contradiction between the two, and all of this on those billboards that you're about to ban most of. The municipal law itself was supported by us at the beginning of this year, I'll tell you the truth. Just because we thought that the terrorist action in Rogan - which took place in November 2015 in December 2015 - practically at the same time that our fellow Member Rogán had declared himself Minister - had dropped the results of the settlement settlement settlement over the past 25 years with a handshake, and took away the whole meaning of the building permit procedure with an amendment of the law, it was, in some sense, corrected by this municipal law. Let me note here, Mr Secretary of State, that the image manual you mentioned, that the government will spend HUF 3.5 billion on it in the next period, this is a very good thing, according to the government decree published, and it is indeed a missing element of settlement planning and value protection in Hungary. However, I think that this HUF 3.5 billion is very small in view of the fact that we have a total of 3,200 settlements. Very little. Obviously, in the case of smaller settlements, this is just over a million forints, if I count it pro rata, may be enough, but in the case of a larger town with county rights it is likely to cost much or much more. After all, if you really want to process this in the original sense of the Municipal Picture Act, then you and the person who will do this image manual will have to say a number of things, and this amount will certainly not be enough. [[10.30]] So I think that there is an urgent need to increase this envelope in this regard. We also supported the original Municipal Picture Act because the Local Value Protection Regulation will finally have meaning, a serious legislative framework, and it will also be an effective tool in the hands of the local leaders to enforce these regulations. So this proposal, which had become a law, was a proposal to be supported, but now what lies before us is, in our understanding, politically motivated, and it is clear that the professional arguments here are far from behind. That's what I'd like to say to you right now. First of all, I would like to bring here the problem of protecting the landscape environment, which is actually the essence of this whole story, because they have a different role for these billboards outside and inside, and unfortunately they have a different impact, let us add. In this respect, however, the bill itself, which is before us, does not make any distinction, but it is very important. In Annex 1, point 9 and point 7, when you say that the area of the protected value of local importance, or the area of the landscape protection area, the area of the specific landscape value, is, according to the law, areas where certain billboards or advertising carriers cannot be placed, this regulation, as I understand it, contradicts the fact that regulation cannot be laid down on the road or in its surroundings, the local regulation. I see a very significant contradiction here, because precisely in terms of the protection of landscape values, these are the great billboards on the side of the roads, which are the most destructive. So now we either regulate landscape protection or landscape protection in such a way that they cannot be placed, and that is absolutely all right, a goal to support, and then we do not put this exception into the law, to put it in the road and its environment, or to include it, but then we do not want to protect our landscape values. The other is the loophole, let's say that the areas set out in Annex 1 can be exempted from these exceptions three months a year under the local regulations. Then why are you defending these areas in the first place? I think that this loophole opens up too much of the opportunity that the government is obviously trying to provide for itself by having giant billboards placed for certain government propaganda purposes a few times a year across the country. But then again, I just have to say that they are advertising carriers that cannot be installed or brought overnight, so they will probably be constantly in some way, but they will be elements that destroy landscapes. Then there's the question of authority. This is an extremely interesting problem, I'll tell you the truth. I've been thinking about whether there's a type of municipal decree that doesn't give an authority the opportunity to implement it. What do I mean? By default, it is the various departments of the notary or the notary's mayor's office that are responsible for the implementation of the municipal orders. The exception is the authorisation procedures for construction, in Hungarian: the question of the implementation of the HÉSZ and the regulatory plan. So this is also a municipal decree, but it is now largely withdrawn from municipal offices and integrated into district offices. So it's an exception, but there's also an authority. But it's a decree with 1-5. The notary shall be responsible for the implementation of Article 6-7, after which the notary shall be responsible for the execution of Article 6-7. There is no such decree for the implementation of the paragraph of this Article, any other authority not yet named. I don't know if that made sense to the Secretary of State. [[Nándor Csepreghy nodds.]] I would ask you to give me such an example in your reply as to whether there is such a type of municipal decree that shares the responsibility for implementation in this way. Because I don't. There isn't! I believe that this alone will cause terrible chaos in implementation. The other, which is also in this context, is a question of a municipal fine. Here is what you are putting forward in the proposal. Article 1 Paragraph 1 states that the mayor of the municipality may impose a municipal obligation and fine, not including the unlawful placement of advertising media and advertisements, and the municipal image fine. So this is gonna be number one. § according to the new law, which is the original 8. § 2 will be regulated. On the other hand, the 11th you didn't change. Paragraph 1 states that the mayor issues a municipal obligation, and consequently, pursuant to paragraph 2 the body of representatives shall impose a fine on the basis of the obligation, in brackets: a municipal fine. The fact that there are two concepts of a municipal fine within a law is absolutely unicus, there is no other concept of fines in the Municipal Picture Act. Now you're creating a coherence disorder that will be irresolvable. So far, the mayor of the municipality did not have the opportunity to impose a fine because it was the responsibility of the general assembly or the body of representatives, and he could only issue an obligation. On the other hand, you are giving him the opportunity to formulate a kind of fine, but this kind of fine is, by the way, given to the municipal body as a municipal fine in an additional part of the law. I don't know if this terrible contradiction is understandable. It is not possible to legislate, it cannot be codified with a bag-sewing needle. You have to be able to put it nicely so that it can be implemented afterwards, whoever we give this opportunity to. Here's what I'd like to say about point 4. It is, let's say, an extremely eligible part of this law that anyone who places a poster on a foreign asset can be fined - it is indeed a very important thing - and the amount of this fine will be transferred into the municipal sub-scheme, because it is indeed the duty of public area supervisors to impose a public-area fine and a fine on-the-spot. I think that this is really trying to deal with a very difficult and bad situation by showing hundreds of thousands of posters especially during election periods placed in places that really make the settlement image very much worse. At the same time, however, it should be replaced in some way and replaced by local governments, so that there should be some kind of surface where they are entitled to the election, so those who are elected can post posters, where appropriate, advertising themselves. Overall, I have to say that this bill before us, by the way, gives the government such a broad framework for further regulation in the government decree, which in fact will probably contain the essence, which is a blank cheque, which we cannot issue to the government, because it is clearly the political goal so far, but how exactly this will be regulated in the government decree, we cannot know that, and that is most of all what is the political motive for us. Because if the Secretary of State had told us in his exposé what the government decree would contain, he would have made at least one or two binding remarks, then perhaps we would have seen better, but I must say that it is clearly used as a political weapon by the government, and therefore we absolutely reject it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[10.40]]
u2016-12-13-32	Thank you. Other factions have not indicated that they would set up a keynote speaker. He's not an independent Member, so they don't speak to him either. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to comment on the debate in the remaining timeframe. Yes, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has indicated that she wishes to speak to him. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-13-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The LMP is not in favour of the bill, and it is incomprehensible why it is necessary to adopt this regulation, for which even the author himself cannot prescribe any aspect which would give rise to urgency, to double-cross the Parliament in two days. The current governing parties like to sell their goals for a little less sublime reasons in principle. The most typical example of this has been the buddy legislation on the advertising market. We all remember that, since it was not so long ago that the government wanted to put Lajos Simicska's businesses in the advertising market, then the ban on advertising on roads was sold by means of road safety arguments. That amendment of the law had to be accepted immediately, as you said then that the motorists were in danger because of the many advertisements hanging from the electric column that drew their attention. Then, when John Lázár announced the withdrawal of the measure with the usual sly half-smile on his face, the reason was, of course, that the ban did not have any road safety effect and, of course, in no case, that the company that ruled the market of the re-licensed advertising type was successfully eaten by the fidesz economic background. Of course, this is just as much the proposal for a bill for the protection of nature, the image of the settlement, the cultural heritage, don't give it to God. When you say those words on your lips, you mean, in fact, the money and their re-election, directly and indirectly in addition to the media purchased from public funds, are easier communication platforms. We have found only one provision that could indicate that at least incidentally, the protection of the townscape and landscapes has come to the mind of the drafters of the proposal. We could even support the fact that the law prohibits the placement of posters in world heritage, cultural or natural protection. However, the horse's foot also hangs out here, as the proposal also provides for a derogation from this rule for a lower level of legislation. That is, if, over the past year, a government communications think tank spending ten billion-dollar public money on posters will want Kossuth Square or Andrássy Road to be filled with its messages, then world heritage or not, there will also be a way to do that. This amendment does not in itself completely eliminate the advertising market, but it is perfectly capable of controlling its operation by municipal authorities to a lesser extent, but on important issues. If they make good and unscrupulous use of the system created by the law - and we can count on this on the basis of our experience so far - then, as a result of the combined legislative bans, government regulations and municipal regulations, it will somehow be possible to place advertisements where and as today's governmental interests benefit. As the end of the story can be seen clearly, perhaps the stations on the road to that point are not so important as to say that this is a particularly harmful and dangerous bill. Even so, it is obvious how possible the bans and restrictions to the law are. Why shouldn't a private individual or a condominium provide for the sale of posters over five years? Why can a single advertisement be placed on a property, whether it's a corner building at the end of a village or a ten-storey housing house or a multi-acre factory complex? Why doesn't the same limit apply to state and municipal property? As a drop of the sea, there is the essence of the concept in their only provision. The municipal image decree issued by the local government may grant derogations from specific prohibitions and requirements for a total of 12 calendar weeks per year if necessary to inform the municipality of an event relevant to the municipality. What the pro-government authorities believe to be significant for the life of a settlement was well seen in the part of the quota campaign that operated with particularly shameful means. Thus, this 12-week exception rule cannot and should not be understood as a general exception for the conduct of politically highlighted campaigns in the event of too good a central regulation. There is a question to be regulated in the advertising market. Any public advertising that is purely public propaganda should be banned. The LMP proposal for this, which has been voted out several times, is still in front of you. Trust me, the settlement image would still improve a lot. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-13-34	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Yes, Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-13-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Allow me to answer a few points. On the one hand, I thank the pro-government group for their support. With regard to what Congressman Varga has said, I would like to say that there is a great deal of Christmas confusion here, and I think that the reason why you have raised it is because the opposition has such a great potential for communication that it would not allow it. [[Dr. László Varga: I'm flattered!]] , and voices all kinds of oppositions. So I am sure that those news or readings will be sufficiently published in the press, even in Parliament. So I don't think that your fear is justified. It is neither regulated nor regulated by the bill before you, nor by the government decree to be adopted later, that the surfaces that appear as advertising platforms in the given settlement are the municipality which, if it is in public ownership, to whom it sells, therefore, to which company it enters into an agreement. Neither the bill nor the government decision can specify specifics in this respect. So it is quite clear that you can formulate formal, formal requirements, but in addition, who the provider is on this surface is not part of this bill, it is decided by each municipality itself. From this point forward, the argument which Mr President assumes behind the regulation is that one or more market players should be given the opportunity or, where appropriate, to make it impossible. As a result, it is not entirely clear to me how the purity of the elections is influenced by the number of poster companies in each settlement. Government actors have the same opportunity to buy as any party, so not the government will provide these surfaces, but the bill supported by the government and adopted by Parliament, I hope, can only define the framework and conditionality of the whole. I would also like to add a few additions to what Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said. On the one hand, yes, the debate we had in connection with the municipal image protection law, I also thanked and thank Jobbik for their support. In essence, the bill before you now is nothing more than a further resolution of this, because if I remember correctly, it was a representative woman who called for the uniform image of the farmland world and for it to be dissolved at the time when a new type of regulation was introduced by the state in terms of authorisation procedures and urged that this regulation be clarified. This can essentially be interpreted as one of its sub-headings from the government's point of view. What you have mentioned is that the settlements receive HUF 3.5 billion in total for the preparation of these image manuals - let us say this - and this is indeed a small one - the government did not intend to support the richer large settlements, and we would really like to carry out only one contribution amount there. In the case of a Szeged, a Hódmezővásárhely, a settlement the size of Békéscsaba, of course, this cost is not sufficient, but these cities have completely different financial conditions than small settlements. [[10.50]] In addition, in most of these cities there is already an image manual that needs to be updated, so it is a completely different task. However, 80 percent of Hungarian settlements are small settlements, where this amount can be sufficient to carry out these works. So there will be settlements where this amount of nearly HUF 1 million will not be enough, we can see that, but there was no intention. With regard to the detailed rules, as has already been said in many debates, the Government decree is always the rule that can be applied back to. I do not see a problem in time with the fact that this will be born later, since it will complete the framework of the law, but this is a permanent debate. In connection with the three-month term or exception, the legislator or the government thought of events of local importance when they laid down this proposal, which may be important for local life, for local festivals and local community events, and this should be decided by the local body of representatives, the local government, when and how they open this option. I'm guessing that's gonna be a good farm for all the municipalities. I do not want to be pleased with the appearance of omniscience, if I do not have all the knowledge, so I will answer the question, which is the assignment between the notary and the authority, but I do not have enough preparation for that today, so allow me - I hope this is not against house rules - to comply with the Member's question at a later date in this regard. In any case, in relation to the fine, the municipality is the one who can impose the fine and is obliged to impose it. I would like to respond to what Congresswoman Schmuck has said in the sense that if I took part in a debate or if you took part, I would be able to respond better if I knew what your position was. In one sentence, he complained that regulation is too strict and restricts the free functioning of the advertising market, and in the other, he said exactly the opposite when he said that he had too many options. So it's hard to come up with a point of view. I suggest that the writers add this on the following occasions. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-36	Thank you very much. Decisions will be taken on this day. A joint debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to the exercise of public burdens and the task of public bodies follows in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/13268. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/13268/3 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/13268/4. You can get to know him on the network. Honourable Members, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill.
u2016-12-13-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Not only the Government of Hungary, but international organizations also declare a fight against tax evasion, the offshore knights. This fight will enter a new phase next year. The most effective instrument for effective action is provided by the multilateral agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts under the auspices of the OECD. The first exchange of information will take place until 30 September 2017 in the case of new and existing high value individual accounts. This means that information about Hungarian financial account holders can be received from more than 70 countries from 2017 to the Hungarian authorities. From the autumn of 2017, the National Tax and Customs Office has also made available data on high-value foreign bank accounts, which are compared by the tax office risk analysts with other available data, so that it is easy to exclude those who have not paid public burdens on their income generated in our country by damaging the budget and decent taxpayers. The NAV may also impose a tax penalty of up to 200 per cent and a late payment of twice the central bank base rate in addition to the hidden tax. This means that next year it is not possible, but it is not worth hiding from the NAV the balance of foreign bank accounts. The possibility arises for individuals to display their income in or otherwise hidden in a foreign bank account and to comply with their tax liability prior to the start of the transfer. Dear House, On the basis of the bill before you, a private individual who decides to pay a 10% tax on his income from interest, dividends, exchange rate gains or income from an enterprise before starting a check is exempted from the legal consequences of any tax revision. This income is not subject to any payment obligation other than the 10 per cent tax and the self-control bonus. However, no tax benefits are available. The application of the method is subject to the payment of the total amount to the account of the bank designated by the NAV by 30 June 2017, from which the bank transfers the 10 per cent tax anonymously. During a six-month transitional period, it will also be possible for individuals to acquire at least 10% of their share in the enterprise at a reduced rate. If the acquisition of the shareholding is notified free of charge by the author to the State tax authority or the payment of the purchase price of the holding is made by a bank located in the EEA Member State, no tax or other public liability shall be payable, so that the amount can be used for the growth of the enterprise. In accordance with that measure, the institution of the Stability Savings Account will be released after a 30-day transitional period. Dear Parliament, The bill also initiates the amendment of another law.
u2016-12-13-38	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to tell you, but your phone keeps coming in. If you move it a little bit, you can hear what he has to say. [[András Tállai: It's off.]] I can see it's constantly lit, so I'm sure it's confusing, and that's why we can't hear your performance. [[András Tállai: I will give you this one sentence, Mr President, if I may.]] Yeah, okay.
u2016-12-13-39	Mr President, The proposal aims to create a legal environment which, while respecting the independence of sports organisations, aims to promote better the achievement of the goals of Hungarian sport through cooperation between public bodies and the world of sport, by increasing opportunities for direct exchange of views and by creating relative organisational interoperability. Dear Parliament, I ask you to vote today to support the adoption of the law. I'm sorry if my phone was distracting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-13-40	Thank you very much. The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2016-12-13-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that yesterday the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13268 by way of a derogation from the house rules. The Commission presented a bill amending certain laws relating to the exercise of public burdens and the task of public bodies, with 23 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions, and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own proposal of eight points, which aims to clarify the technical, linguistic and interpretation aspects. At the same time, the Legislative Committee did not support György Szilágyi's proposal by a better representative, who would have ruled out the possibility of holding the position of political leaders as sports associations or sports associations. I note that in the Legislative Committee, the debate around this subject was essentially being discussed, all the other issues being put behind us. Government parties do not see the principle of preventing political leaders from taking part in the management of sport as long as the persons concerned are not directly and simultaneously exercising supervisory, official law. It is probably the primary problem of opposition representatives that, thanks to the government's flagship sports policy, sports performances will not be missed, and we will certainly achieve great success both in sports fields and in the field of sports diplomacy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.00]]
u2016-12-13-42	Thank you. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a maximum 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-12-13-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In front of us, T/13268. Legislative proposal No.3 implements amendments in three areas. We believe that the practice of fair public burden-sharing so far should be further extended to those who, as an offshore company, are among the companies that do not engage in activities in the country of registration and that part of their income is unduly excluded from taxation. The first change relates to the taxation of offshore businesses. The aim here is to give the government, as a last chance, the opportunity for the owners of income in or otherwise hidden in a foreign bank account to confess and pay up the 10 percent public space required by the law by 30 June 2017. Therefore, those who decide, before verifying the NAV, to pay a 10% tax on income or income, such as interest, dividends, exchange rate gains or income extracted from an undertaking, are exempted from the legal consequences of any tax revision. This income is not subject to a payment obligation other than a 10% tax and a self-control bonus, but no other benefits are available from the tax. The tax method can only be applied by paying the total amount to the bank account designated by the NAV concerned by 30 June 2017, from which the bank transfers the 10% tax anonymously. In parallel with this measure, the Stability Savings Account will cease to exist. The regulation on hidden income is ensured on the basis of an EU Directive on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts concluded under an OECD agreement. The first exchange of information will take place until 30 September 2017 in the case of new and existing high value individual accounts. This means that information about Hungarian financial account holders can be received from more than 70 countries from 2017 to the Hungarian authorities. Since the NAV will now have data from high value foreign bank accounts as of autumn 2017, it will be easier to detect those who have not paid the public charges imposed on their income in our country. In their case, the NAV may impose a tax penalty and double the default rate on the central bank. The OECD's automatic data exchange initiative will be able to close the loophole globally from 2017 to offshore companies with non-transparent structures. The latter are well-known companies from the Hungarian press, whose ownership background is opaque, their real activity is not in the country of registration, so they are used for fictitious transactions, and their owners do not admit their incomes from their companies. According to the OECD programme, from 2017 not only the income of private people, but also all interest income and account balances of foundations and companies, as well as the identity of real owners and beneficiaries, will be automatically available to the tax authorities, including in Hungary. For example, if a Caribbean offshore company of one of the owners of a domestic company opens a bank account in London, then the managing bank must automatically notify the national tax authority of the identity of the real account holder behind the company and of the specific account balance. All major states and popular offshore locations have already indicated their willingness to participate in the global exchange of data. We need to know that on the ownership side there are a lot of people in Hungary who are not operating a transparent offshore company. The adoption of the OECD Convention will be a major challenge for them, but it will not affect the functioning of fair companies, since they have nothing to hide. I would also like to stress that today it is less worth taking a company abroad from a tax point of view than before. While the profits of the companies were taxed at a corporate tax of around 20 per cent before 2010, while the dividends paid from the taxed profit were further 35 per cent personal income tax, many thought that it was worth setting up an offshore company, as it was still profitable despite the significant maintenance costs. Today, however, these business owners think that they are better off working cleanly, since the lower rate of corporate tax is only 10 percent, and as we know, this will be reduced to 9 percent next year, and they will be able to take on their profits with only 16 percent dividend tax. Another important element of the draft legislation is that it also provides opportunities and facilitation to companies which have at least 10% of the company's share at a reduced rate. After all, they do not have to pay the tax when they acquire it, so the company can use the amount of the tax that is quasi-pre-empted for growth. This is primarily a question of competitiveness, as this can make the domestic entrepreneurial environment more attractive to both domestic and foreign investors at the same time. Imagine a business based on a good idea, a good start, but it doesn't have enough capital to expand, develop. You can then resort to the method to sell a certain proportion of the company and thus obtain capital. The draft law also allows for exceptions to the strict rules of conflict of interest for political leaders in the exercise of certain positions of general interest. In this context, we believe that a legal environment must be developed that enhances cooperation between the bodies of the state and the world of sport, direct exchange of views and facilitates the achievement of the goals of Hungarian sport more effectively through the creation of relative organisational interoperability. The issue of domestic sport is promoted if more direct communication between sports associations and the government can be achieved. If you agree to tax offshore assets, tax relief and more effective cooperation between sport and the state, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-13-44	I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-12-13-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, After all, listening to the expo, which wasn't five minutes old, I wondered how much time it was worth to make this amendment, since the government has already asked for it in an exceptional procedure. In practice, this means that the bill will be negotiated this morning, and in the afternoon the Parliament will decide on the law itself. There is no doubt that the Fidesz and KDNP majority of Parliament will support this proposal. The exceptional procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is not, however, a daily routine. It is for cases where there has been a major and unexpected event in the country which cannot be dealt with under the legal conditions so far, and therefore it is in the country's primary interest that, if necessary, the Parliament responds to this unexpected new situation within a day or two and formulates the necessary legislation. The question is, what is the reason for the exceptional procedure now, since behind the proposed bill there is no such high-profile, unexpected, unexpected natural disaster, economic or social movement, which would explain why this bill must now be discussed and adopted in one day. It is a well-known fact that sports associations are rushing after government representatives with both hands, and the various professional associations are doing the same. The bill makes a change in this area that will allow political leaders, state ministers, ministers and even ad absurdum, the Prime Minister, to make this opportunity possible in the future. There is nothing in the future to prevent the President of the Swimming Association from becoming Viktor Orbán. It's obviously impossible now, but it's not impossible for a secretary of state or a minister to fill this position. The question is whether this is the right way to support sport, whether it is indeed the best means of modern sport funding, if the individual associations try to get as large a man as possible for themselves, regardless of whether that politician understands the sport of which he is the president. The point is, the more money you can get from the government's neighborhood, the more state aid you can get to the respective alliance, and then it's going to get really, really bad in various ways that the alliance has spent. [[11.10]] We consider that such a far-reaching change in domestic sport is not necessary, and if we look at what unexpected event might have justified the exceptional procedure recently, there is only one thing: Tamás Gyárfás' resignation from the position of president of the Swimming Association. So this was the unexpected event that led the government's decision-makers to make a quick decision before Christmas, and rip-rops presented to the Parliament the bill which, in addition to many other things, fixed this issue. There's no reason why I don't want to show you names anymore, there's no reason why a minister, a secretary of state, or even the Prime Minister, should be able to fill such posts in the future, more precisely, such assignments. We don't consider this an eligible journey. The funding of sport should not be based on which alliance has a stronger head of the alliance, which federal president can make more money from the government, but on performance and transparency. The other change, which the secretary of state did not listen to, and my fellow Fidesz lead speaker said frankly about it, is another major element of this bill, since it amends the existing legislation on a number of minor issues, and the fact that it does not close a loophole on the taxation of offshore companies, but maintains a loophole. The government effort would otherwise be eligible for transparency in the operation of offshore companies. If someone in offshore companies has an income that has been overlooked by the domestic tax authority, then account for these funds, tax them according to the legislation in force, and it is also in the country's elemental interest to always know who the owner is in the case of large offshore companies moving in Hungary. This is not exactly possible in every case to give a different example, in the offshore business around the settlement policy, which has so far become an interesting thread, it has all pointed to people close to the government. But if the Hungarian state was worth entrusting this business to offshore companies on such a far-reaching issue, on the issue of resettlement, for money, instead of doing it through consular services, well, this has already demonstrated precisely the willingness to practice this bad practice. Well, this bill does not eliminate this possibility, but by maintaining a loophole, it allows those who still have invisible assets, incomes in offshore accounts, to pay it through a favourable tax, and to be exempt from any other legal consequences and tax liability. If the government had sought to close all the loopholes in this regard, the MSZP would consider this to be an eligible proposal, but this bill maintains another loophole in this area, but we do not consider this to be eligible at all. To sum up, therefore, we believe that nothing in the world has justified the haste, the haste that we now have to accept this bill in one day. The only change that would have meant any movement in this area was the change at the head of the Hungarian Swimming Association. If the government believes that this is worth an exceptional procedure so that a political leader can fill the vacant seat of Tamás Gyárfás in the future, then their soul on it, for our part, we do not support this kind of legislative activity. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-13-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-12-13-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, This is the fourth time we've gone to tax laws this year. I've always found a way to justify, even if it's not right, that we touch it four times, but why it's justified. Fourthly, I am not trying to do this because I accept Mr Burány's claim that we are discussing it in an exceptional procedure. He explained the real purpose of the exceptional procedure. I accept this statement, but at the same time I add, of course, in any case the Parliament may decide to negotiate a law in exceptional proceedings. That's what he did now. However, I would mention that it would not have required exceptional foresight to perhaps settle these issues during the negotiation of the third legislative package. I consider the changes to the sports federations to be the least important, to be more precise, to indicate a change in the rules on the status of state ministers and ministers, and a change in the rules on conflicts of interest. I do not consider this a very exciting question, and I even say sport as a lover, that if Hungarian sport is more effective than choosing leaders the way they want to choose, it is not objectionable to me. The other two issues, which are a substantial part of the law, are exciting, and I consider it normal for the Hungarian fiscal figurer, the government, and the financial farmers to do their best to obtain income. On the one hand, it is obvious that we are taking action against phenomena which are disturbing the functioning of the internal market, and are also in our interest; on the other hand, European Union directives, international rules, which have been referred to by the Secretary of State, which will enter into force next year - here I refer to the new possibility of mutual information about 70 countries from bank accounts - this is to be welcomed. The adoption of these rules is justified, because we obviously believe that this will also make the Hungarian market more transparent. This is in the interests of all of us, and proportionate public burdens require this. The adoption of these rules is not only justified but also legally required of us. The fact that Congressman Burány said that he did not support this part of the bill because we are opening a new loophole, I do not think so. This loophole, if you like it, has been, that, after earning incomes that have been made in the past by those who have been able to do so, when they were very taxed here and evicted from their incomes, is now being legalized with a reasonable amount of money, this opportunity has already been made. Now this option is working differently temporarily, so they can practically legalize their income by paying 10% of their income in a regulated order. Basically, man's moral sense is obviously troubled after every step of the way, but we know that either we get these incomes for the budget or we let them die for life. Then it is more rational to attempt to obtain these extra incomes for the Hungarian budget. There are tens of billions here, so it is worth taking this situation seriously. The other purpose or part of the bill here means the acquisition of preferential shares in certain companies. My fellow Fidesz lead speaker spoke on this issue. The legislator is obviously thinking of companies that are created from almost nothing, based on a great idea. The company is starting to grow suddenly, but it doesn't have the money to raise capital, or it could only do so expensively, so they're considering selling their share or part of it. It is in our interest that our fast growing companies operate on the Hungarian market under Hungarian control. That is why the legislator here offers the opportunity to obtain temporarily preferential shares in these companies, because it is not in our interest to say that companies built up by such great ideas are in the hands of foreigners. Overall, I propose that, because of the substance of the bill - and these are the two areas I mentioned, apart from the sport alliances, I do not consider this to be a matter of substance, although I support it - the Christian Democratic Fraction simply supports and votes for the bill in order to further improve the conditions for rational budgetary management. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-13-48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[11.20]]
u2016-12-13-49	Mr President, Dear House, It would be possible to hold a sensible debate on this bill, not in the manner in which my fellow Member, KDNP, has just tried to justify the inexplicable one, because if it were true what he was saying - it is factually not true - then it would not have been in rush work, before the holiday, and not in two days that they would have tried to fooled us with this package, but would have clearly taken the time they needed, which would have passed through the committees, not through extraordinary proceedings, not with urgency, but in a fair manner through the professional debates that you have completely negated. The fact is that this package is about making it easier for you to pack your own people for the head of a sports league or for the head of a sports league. This is not what the sports associations want, which is typically not what the relevant professional organisations want - that is what you want. Then, obviously, when a sports association is forced into an emergency, they try to choose the least wrong, but the thing is, this package is not about that. I would add what is in it is also interesting; it was especially interesting for me to hear from a KDNP, how and in what way it can be legalized that you would actually leave the operation of offshore companies in the grey zone. Indeed, it was justified of the opposition that, if you were to take action against offshore companies, you might first have to look around your friends, in terms of the residency bond business, your good friends were enriched with more than a hundred billion brokerage awards during the period concerned. Mr Vas, this story is not funny at all, because it will have very serious consequences. The thing is, you're releasing potential terrorists to this country, your good friends are getting rich on this, and while you're fighting about reviewing the bond system in public, what are you doing? A motion to extend the activity of the Cypriot intermediary to Seychelles will be brought into the Economic Committee. My fellow Member from Harghita, stand up and explain to us the need for you and your friends to deal in bonds in the Seychelles. Explain to me the interests of the national economy, especially under the circumstances that since December 2014, with regard to the assessment of the yield environment, it is more worthwhile to finance this from the market than from your dirty money bond business. It's almost time for the holiday. The fact is, you promised to review this system, lie again, lie as usual, this system has not been reviewed. [[Dr. János Hargitai: Zajlik!]] The holiday will take place with your system of getting dirty money still here. What did they do? Your friends in Iraq have opened another office. You can also go to the mall in Iraq and buy settlement bonds, while thousands of other rich foreign families were allowed to settle in Hungary for family reunifications. This is your certificate! Brussels, in the wrong way, threatened the unjustified introduction of 1300 aliens, whereas you and your friends have already settled thousands in Hungary, giving them the right to settle. The government's elimination of the stability savings account for cleaning illegal income with this proposal is one thing that I would be even more interested in as part of the justification. Why didn't this system work properly? What scale can you draw? Why are they shutting it down now? Why open a different loophole instead? If it didn't work, what methods should be changed in order to make this work? From a national economic approach, it could be accepted to pull companies back from the grey economy into the white, normal operating entities, but to do so, we should explain why in recent years you have failed to do so fully and explain how this will work more effectively by eliminating this method and opening another loophole. Obviously, there will be domestic economic operators who will say that at present 15 percent is the key, whereas a discount of 10 percent will be possible to bring home income either illegally or partially legally acquired, in fact, this is a retraction to the white economy, not yet there, only towards it. So there will be people who will object to this. Obviously, it should also be considered whether it is worth opening a loophole for interest, securities lending income, dividends, SWAP, for all types of different forms of income from exchange gains, or whether it should be selected, and perhaps focus only on those economic spheres where legal income is, let's just say, more typical than others. What we see here is that there is an end to an opportunity, which has not been examined, and there is a new loophole, which seems to have failed to model, but there is still room for that in this debate. So help us by explaining their views on this matter, their visions. Obviously, the temporary amnesty for the tax-free sale of companies also raises interesting questions, as it can be seen that this is a pre-complicated, OECD-level anti-money laundering offer, a market offer that you are now making to companies operating either in the grey economy or in the black economy. Here, too, we need to see who can be returned to the Hungarian market, who can be returned to so-called legal limits, through this last incitement. I see that the government is in a hurry, but in fact, you have pushed this amnesty-like thing in an additional way in two days, and the point here is really around the sports federations, which will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Member Szilágyi. We also see that the fact that stromens can exchange foreign companies tax-free between themselves may not be a good approach in itself. It may be necessary to set certain limits, perhaps to approach the whole from the sanctioning system. In the event of the withdrawal of these companies to the white economy, the fear of sanctions tends to work and the operation with it, so they may be able to achieve much greater success on this site. We have to say that I really want to talk very, very little about sports associations, but all I have to do is say that this is being submitted because they want to achieve direct communication between sports associations and public bodies, practically rename communist manual control in a completely mean way, because you are not needed either at the head of sports associations or at the head of sports clubs. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to point this out to you: you may have the hardest - well, as the person responsible for the NAV, as President of the Mezőkövesd? I'm sorry, but how many horses would you like to ride at once? The Secretary of State and I could talk about the weekend Honvéd-Mezőkövesd match [[Defiance.]] And it's true, I commend you, during your regency, Attila Pintér carved a massive middle team out of the rookie, and when the Honvéd, my team, triumphed against you this weekend at the end of a very heroic battle, I say that he triumphed over a massive team, this success has a sporting value. But I'm also saying that it's not necessarily effective that you can be responsible for sports clubs besides the NAV, you can ride a thousand horses at the same time. We've done exactly the same job accumulation in the last six years on countless occasions. If you talk to the simple fans - please do - they will say that out of politics from the stadiums, from the leader of sports clubs, there is no need for you there, you do not need to be in the wrestling alliance, no one invited you there; you would like to enter there, but you were not invited there, you were uninvited to enter somewhere inappropriate at least. So what we have to say is, if you're talking to real fans, you'd be hearing the card drop, stop punishing the fans, and at all, withdraw from this sphere, you're not needed there. [[András Tállai: I've been there for 30 years, I've only been doing it for 30 years!]] Secretary of State, you've become a massive middle team from the Mezőkövesd, I give you credit, but try to ride a horse. That's why I can say, "Just Kispest, forever!" ! ! Come on, red-blacks! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Defiance.]]
u2016-12-13-50	I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-12-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today we have reached the last day of the autumn session, and yet today we are discussing a bill that was submitted yesterday, and today the majority of governments want to accept it. We believe that the exceptional urgency in this salad law has no reason, unless we are before the holidays, and you want to hide these proposals from the public. Unfortunately, you are abusively using the exceptionally urgent procedure, which would otherwise have the function of making Parliament able to decide in cases of extreme urgency. Of course, there's nothing to be surprised about, you're encrypting everything, centralizing everything, disrespecting Parliament and Members. The most shocking part of yesterday's salad law on public burdens is the amendment on the role of state leaders. The LMP has repeatedly called on the government to recall political commissaries from the sports associations. Cleanliness of sport life and effective work would require that organisations be managed by truly well-trained professionals, who have confidence in sport, instead of political appointees. On the other hand, the current proposal would not remove this corrupt situation, but would also give state leaders the opportunity to take up positions in sports associations; I believe that Mr Tállai is sufficient there. This may well be due to the fact that they plan to replace Tamás Gyárfás, who resigned from the Swimming Federation scandal, with a partner in the current position of minister or State Secretary, which requires the adoption of this law. But this amendment is yet another step on the road to subjugating state arbitrariness, towards the eradication of civil and civil autonomy. [[11.30]] The LMP once again calls on the pro-government representatives not to vote for this amendment, because it has a damaging effect on Hungarian sport. You are referring to the fact that with this amendment you are promoting the centuries-old tradition of Hungarian sport and thus guaranteeing future success, while achieving the exact opposite by not operating with a professional eye, but driven by political interests. And from centuries-old traditions, the worst parts, nepotism and corrupt mister-brother world are revived. In the other part of the bill, they refer to the suppression of offshore activity - a false and hypocritical reference. You keep saying that they will reduce corruption and that the Hungarian state will operate with sufficient transparency. On the other hand, last week the Prime Minister removed the country from the Open Government Cooperation Association because he was offended that he was criticized. This step confirms precisely that the current government has no other purpose but to operate unscrupulously without any control and to have a public asset without any liability. In addition to such international steps, it is therefore in no way possible to say that the government would really want to reduce the offshore; it will take a maximum of a few minimum measures under pressure from the European Union. If the government were really interested in the fact that thousands of billions of people were going out of the country untaxed, shortening the state register by hundreds of billions, all of us, it would also have accepted the proposals submitted by LMP, which would have really helped to reduce tax evasion. On the other hand, pretend measures are constantly being taken, but the actual substantive steps are always lagging behind. In support of tax avoidance and common cash-breeding pests, they shall be referred to in Articles 8 and 11 of this Regulation. The changes described in paragraph 2 of this Article are also made. While they eliminate the state money launderer, officially called Stability Savings Bill, which is highly and rightly criticized and which faces honest taxpayers, they also lower the rate of post-taxation to so low, 10 percent for income from capital and financial activity, that it is simply ridiculous. It can be said that they prevent money from flowing to offshore, but if they achieve this by bringing taxes down to their level, it cannot be called a real solution. They therefore reduce the tax on interest income, exchange rate gains and other income from securities, dividends, income from capital market transactions and income extracted from businesses to 10%. In English: the speculators, the offshore knights, the beneficiaries of the international financial system, the bankers and brokers are supported by the government with a highly preferential, 10% tax, while an average Hungarian employee will pay off half of his salary. Here is the truth of Fidesz: the teacher, the factory worker, pays five times as much tax as the speculator. This is totally unacceptable. This perpetuation of offshore incomes is everything but public burdens. It also shows how cynical it is to address the bill. Once again, this is in the interests of the wealthy who wish to escape public burdens, and it is not an offshore repressive measure, but a measure serving the offshore knights. This is bad for the country on both sides. On one side, when the property was saved, it was already damaged, and with this government's help to bring their assets home so easily, laundered, the state also loses a lot of tax revenue. The LMP is of the opinion that the government is taking false measures to reduce money laundering and to reduce tax evasion, but it is also serving the system. Instead of the current measure, real action should be taken, and the primary aim should not be to have party soldiers fill important sports associations positions, but to choose professionally competent people for the sake of sport. The LMP cannot accept this bill. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-13-52	Thank you. Independent Members are not present, so they do not speak to the debate. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-12-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017 there will be a World Swimming Championship in Hungary. After the Rio Olympics, Katinka Long and Tamás Gyárfás got into a professional debate, and the clean-up meeting of the Swimming Association is expected to take place around February. Now, normally, the President could tell me not to deviate from the issue, because this bill changes the personal income tax law and changes the corporate tax and dividend tax law. I will read further: it provides for post-taxation, then provides for Hungary's economic stability, and this is how we can read it, the acquisition of a participation discount, and the rest, and so on. And in the end, there is an amendment in this salad law that doesn't fit at all, as it provides that from now on political leaders can become officials of a sports association or a sports association. How this got here should be explained to you, but yesterday you couldn't answer how it actually got here. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] In our opinion, you know who will be president of the Swimming Association, even though the renewal has not yet been announced, even though the date has not yet been set. However, yesterday I asked you, again, that, since society was very interested in this Long Katinka-Gyárfás Tamás debate, which came into the spotlight after the Olympics, you should not keep society waiting. Tell me who will be president of the Swimming Association, because I know that there will be a democratic election there, according to what you will determine for the people attending the assembly. So I would like to know who will be president of the Swimming Association, because this change means that from now on, the Prime Minister, Minister and Secretary of State will be able to lead the Swimming Alliance. There is one more interesting question, by the way, perhaps the Secretary of State can answer me that, if you would be willing to answer. If I look at Wikipedia now - and my fellow Member mentioned the Honvéd-Mezőkövesd match here - I find the following at the Wikipedia at Mezőkövesd, President: András Tállai. You are now changing this law. Secretary of State has been Secretary of State for quite some time. From now on, you could be president of this association when you vote for it. In my opinion, so far, the President of Mezőkövesd, the Secretary of State, has been unlawfully chairman of an association. [[Disseminations from the benches of the governing parties from the same place: No, no! Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] That would be incompatible, but we'll have our lawyers examine this case and see if it's ever been illegal. This may be why we're changing it, but that's what we have to say, that the team is a success, and it still wants to be president of the Mezőkövesd-Zsóry FC and the SE, because it's the president of the sports club, at least according to Wikipedia. It might not have been possible then, but we'll see about that. Once again, we'd like to know who's going to be president of the Swimming Association. The other thing we would like to know, or I would like to draw your attention to the fact that here the difference between Jobbik and Fidesz is absolutely obvious, how do you imagine, say, Jobbik is steering, and how Fidesz is imagining government. [[András Tállai's constant intervention.]] It's probably the best thing to do in sports, sports. I mean, what do we agree with the Fides? In that sport is a strategic sector. Indeed, we believe that sport has a very big impact on society, almost all segments of society, from health care to economics, when there is a strong sport life in the country. We agree on that. What we don't agree with is that you imagine funding this sport life, and you've proven it over the last six years, that you've been treating the public money that you're spending on sports as if it were your own. It's like you guys are reaching into your own pockets, giving and doing associations, sports associations, and everyone else. And we say it's not government money, it's not your money; it's all our money, all our taxpayers' money, because they support these sports clubs from their tax dollars. [[11.40]] Their tax dollars are included in the sport, so you're not doing favors by supporting sports, you're doing your duty. But the way you're going with this question is that you're doing favors, so you're saying that I'm going to give it to one of the sports trade unions, I'm going to give some of them public money if they put my man in the lead position. If there are Fidesz party soldiers in the sports associations, Fidesz party soldiers in the associations, you will get money - and unfortunately, this is how the sports associations are forced to do it. That's why if we look at all the sports associations, we might find one or two where you haven't been able to replace the old president, and you haven't replaced your own guy. This may have been at the bottom of it, and I said that at the TAB meeting yesterday, but I also mention it here in Parliament, so that it can be read back from the record later on, it was at the bottom of what you did at the wrestling alliance. At the head of the wrestling alliance was a sportsman, a man who could set an example in Hungary with both his human qualification and his sportsman's qualification: Csaba Hegedűs, who is European champion, world champion, Olympic champion. He won his first World Championship by punching everybody in the face. He's been on the board of the wrestling association for 20 years, and he's worked for this sport. But you thought he was much more capable, much better able to help the wrestling sport by a man sitting in your benches, namely Szilárd Németh. Szilárd Németh has so much to do with wrestling anyway, while Csaba Hegedűs is a European, world and Olympic champion, Szilárd Németh has so much to do with wrestling that he wrestles with words every day when he speaks. [[Dr. István Józsa: Their limitations!]] That's it. And what did you do? Csaba Hegedűs was replaced by sending their own mayors to the general assembly, nearly 40, and they were able to replace him with their votes. Then, when he was replaced, this man, who was in the presidency of the wrestling alliance twenty-some years ago, as I say, champion of Europe, world and Olympics, went up to his office after the election, and with your very intelligent, barely arrogant behavior, Szilárd Németh sent up three lawyers that he had five minutes to leave his own office. Then, since Csaba Hegedűs wasn't a small man, and even Norbert Plant was in the office, he thought the three lawyers, when they said it wouldn't go that fast, that it would be better if they left this room. That's how you guys handle sports. It's like their own vassal system, and it's outrageous! That's not how Jobbik thinks it is. Jobbik, I say once again, imagines that sport is a strategic sector, that sport must be supported, that there must be every opportunity for different sports to develop properly, and that energy sources must be provided. But this is neither a condition nor a condition for a better politician to have to join the sports union. No! We find the most suitable person in those sports associations, in those associations, the most suitable person to ensure development. That's how we want it. You're different. In 2018, voters will decide which way is better. I'm afraid that, despite the fact that you've spent a lot of money on sports over the last six years, you've done a lot of damage. Think about what you've done with the Hungarian Olympic Committee, by the way. Here in Parliament five years ago, despite the opposition saying not to give all the licenses to the Hungarian Olympic Committee and not to take them away from the Secretary of State for Sports, you said that this is the way of the future, that everything must be handed over. I was also handed over, because he was a new president of the MOB, Zsolt Borkai, who still enjoyed your trust as a Fidesz party soldier... - it is not your decision, but it is not your decision - that is the confidence of Viktor Orbán, sitting in that chair, because what Viktor allows is happening in this country. Orbán enjoyed his trust, everything was transferred there. You didn't care how the opposition said it wouldn't work. Five years passed, Zsolt Borkai fell out of Viktor Orbán's favor, refused to give up his position as chairman of the MOB. What are you doing? They're putting everything back into the sports secretary of state. It's like nothing ever happened, and now they're saying it's the way of the future. Simply what they do in sports is outrageous. And I'm afraid that there are such patina and prestigious associations as Francis City, by the way, and then you're gonna drink the juice. After all, we remember that during the first Orbán government, they had similar aspirations in the field of sport. Only at the time was Gábor Kubatov, but József Torgyán, placed at Ferencváros. Ferencváros worked so well under József Torgyán that it went bankrupt afterwards and went to the second line. I'm afraid that maybe, when Gábor Kubatov doesn't become president, and it turns out that at the moment, let's say how Ferencváros is financed so that a similar bankruptcy doesn't take precedence and destroy that association. So we think about sports in a completely different way. This shows very well the difference between Jobbik and Fidesz. I hope that the voters will also notice this, because we will not only allow ministers and ministers of state to be senior officials of sports associations or sports associations, but we will also ban them, not just ministers and State Secretarys, but also Members of Parliament, Deputy State Secretarys, or mayors who make decisions so that they do not have to lobby. It shouldn't be, and the associations will admit it, because look back, you can look back, Google is their best friend, see what they said at MTK when they elected Tamás Deutsch as president! They said that they asked Tamás Deutsch because they expected him to be able to lobby him so that MTK could get as much money as possible. Do you think that's a normal point of view? Is this to be considered by associations? Well, the Jobbik for Hungary Movement, as soon as it has the opportunity and depends on us, we will present the bill that we submitted once on 26 March 2012, but you voted against it. Gábor Vona and I have tabled this amendment, which states that the position of sports leader is incompatible, incompatible with the parliamentary assembly, the mayor, the state secretary and ministerial level. We will not be able to do this, we will be able to accept this, we will make these two incompatible, and then we will wish for sports associations, athletes and sports leaders to control Hungarian sports. They know what is best for Hungarian sports, they decide what they intend to use the resources that the Jobbik government will provide for them. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-54	Thank you. András Tállai, State Secretary, now wishes to comment.
u2016-12-13-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, after I had to leave in a few minutes, and on the other hand, one of the speakers was asking me a personal question, and I would therefore like to respond to that. Mr Szilágyi can view it with lawyers, I am telling you, before he accuses me of conflict of interest here: the title of President of the Sports Association in Fezkövesd and my position as Secretary of State are not incompatible, because this regulation is about the possibility of political leaders in employment and other contracts to hold the title of President of the Sports Federation or possibly of the President of the Sports Association in the future. Moreover, the legislation currently in force does not prohibit a person from carrying out this activity in a social mandate and without remuneration. So I assure you that there is no conflict of interest between my commission 30 years ago and my current office as Secretary of State, state leadership. By the way, speaking of Mezőkövesd, you can do it after the Mezőkövesd, you can do it after me. I have been working in the sport for 31 years in Mezőkövesd, not only was I not a Member, even Fidesz was not founded when I was already working for the sport of Főkövesd. I went down the ladder, and for a few years or so, yes, I'm his number one leader, which I'm very proud of, by the way. I'm really sorry we couldn't score a goal for the Honvéd, but we didn't miss much at the end. But I'll admit the Honvéd didn't win undeserved against us. I trust there will be such a good match. Regardless of the fact that this regulation now allows a political leader to lead a sports professional association and association in this legal relationship, otherwise it is not against the law. [[11.50]] I believe that the rules that have been in place so far have been too strict. That's what you saw, that's what the government recognized, and that's why you want to change this system now. Thank you very much for your attention, and I will soon hand over the government representation to my colleague Peter Cseresnyés. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-13-56	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2016-12-13-57	Thank you very much for the floor. I would just like to hold this debate briefly after the Secretary of State has also spoken a little bit about his career in public life across political systems. There may be a situation where, by the way, my fellow Member Szilágyi has something missing from his good summary, because some assumptions can still be made. It may not be related to the Swimming Alliance; it may be, let us say, the Vice-Presidents of Fidesz, and let me also raise this aspect. Szilárd Németh, who, by the way, wants to be Vice President of the Fidesz State Secretary, wants to continue with him, let's say, the visible construction of the wrestling alliance, which has also been embodied in Rio. But I am obviously saying this in a picnic, because my fellow Member has also said what he has said about the unfortunate conditions of the wrestling alliance and the circumstances of the election. Or even Gábor Kubatov wishes to become State Secretary, but in parallel he intends to continue his fan-friendly, spectator-enhancing activities in relation to one of the Hungarian sports clubs. Obviously, I'll put this on the table without surprise. I would also find this as outrageous as what my fellow Member Szilágyi said in connection with the Swimming Alliance. We have made countless proposals on this subject, and the latest proposals are also visible and do exist in the anti-corruption package of the MSZP for state leaders and Members of Parliament. It's unfortunate to meet them at the head of sports clubs and fraternities. Obviously, this type of merger between sport and politics is not only a corruption hotbed in the case at hand - of course it is outrageous that any political attachment is needed to obtain greater support from a club - but I also have to say that this situation is contrary to the basic rule and logic of sport, in particular to competition neutrality, from the point of view of politics. I think that the fact that Hungarian sports events, although the infrastructure is improving, are being visited by few people, the best example of this is the NB I football championship, there is a serious role to be played by the fact that viewers are becoming less and less convinced that they see real competition. They're getting less and less convinced that every single moment is on the field. They think that it is very decisive that each club has its president, what is in the professional association, what politics thinks, for example, about Hungarian football. In light of the fact that hundreds of billions are being poured into sport, especially in Hungarian football, I say this as a football and sport-loving man, this is unacceptable in light of this. So this exercise needs to be changed, and it is not the type of Christmas presents to be placed on the table, otherwise a sentence should be included in a completely different type of presentation, that from here on out, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State could be president of the sorority. For certain sports, this is completely contrary to the practice and requirements of international associations in the given sport. In particular, I am thinking about FIFA, UEFA's practice and regulations. Most sports specifically ensure that politics does not have a direct influence on sports life. I could say that right now in the Christmas spirit, so they can come to their senses, withdraw the proposal, not vote for it, but I think it's completely unnecessary. I very much hope that life defies the worrying revelations that many of us here have made to my fellow opposition Members. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-12-13-58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes.
u2016-12-13-59	András Tállai has already left, but I would say that it is commendable to someone who has worked for a sports club for 31 years. Mr Secretary of State should not be offended, but give answers to the opposition questions that we are asking. We have no choice but to speculate, because you do not tell us what the reason is, and indeed, as Congressman Varga has said, there may be other reasons for this; there may also be other reasons for wanting to take a political position in existing sports associations. Or you might even think about who they want to replace Zsolt Borkai as MOB president for the next meeting of the MOB, and they might be preparing it. So I'm gonna say this again: you shouldn't be offended, you should be given answers. I mean, that could come up, but now, I'm telling you, it doesn't even occur to you, because András Tállai has been working for the team of Mezőkövesd for 31 years as president, as he said he might want to get paid for it. 'Cause you just said that this is going to change in so far as these presidential positions are going to get money from the top politicians from now on. I don't think András Tállai wants to get paid for this, but they're opening up this opportunity to get serious amounts. We also spoke about what Congressman László Varga said during the stadium constructions about the number of viewers in the NB I teams. By the way, there's a huge increase. Thirteen thousand is about the average number of viewers... [[Dr. László Varga: In all the games?]] Yeah, not one game, every game. That's why there are 20,000 stadiums. After all, one thing is forgotten: building a stadium is one of the smallest costs, about 30 percent of the stadium. Operation accounts for 70 percent of the costs, and in order for such a stadium to operate with at least zero salons, a large number of audiences would have to be in there, but you are not doing it to get as many people in the stadium as possible, but to keep as few people in the stadiums as possible. I mean, not you guys. We don't need to talk about plural here. Here only Gábor Kubatov is the only one who resists the fans entering the stadium and boycotting the matches. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-13-60	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. Thus, the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions will be taken on this day. This brings us to the end of our work at the moment, at 2 p.m., we will continue our work with the votes, so until then I will take a break. [[Break: 11.56-14.03President: István Jakabjegyzők: Lorántné Hegedűs and Dr. István Tiba]]
u2016-12-13-61	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We'll get back to work. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Before we proceed to the decisions, allow me to inform the Honourable Parliament: the forms for the name required for declarations of property may be taken at the Information desk of the Office of the Court of Auditors by the end of the meeting. My fellow Members, please take the forms. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, After your fellow Members have taken their seats, please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Decisions will be taken. Dear Parliament, It follows that H/12934 on the adoption of the report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2015 in the field of the provision of a legal unit and the control of local government standards. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/12934. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] H/12933 on the adoption of the 2015 report by the President of the National Court of Justice Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/12933. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 120 votes to 30, with 31 abstentions. It follows that H/12932 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2015 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/12932. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 122 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Following up is T/12733 on the amendment of certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection. Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the legislative proposal and the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote at its meeting on 6 December, the national T/1273/13. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The Legislative Committee proposed an amendment before the final vote T/1273/14. and T/1273/15 before the final vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1273/14. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1273/14. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 152 votes in favour, not by vote, with 31 abstentions. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/1273/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended single proposal by 177 votes to two, with four abstentions. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. T/13270. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/13270/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/13270/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13270/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 184 unanimous votes in favour. [[14.10]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13270/5. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 181 unanimous votes in favour. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13270. the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, with three abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13270. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. T/13269 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/13269/2 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/13269/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rules are 61. Paragraph 6 of this Article provides that there is no possibility to maintain a proposal for amendment in the course of the decision and to request a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13269/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 121 votes to 32 with 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13269. amended bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill with 122 yes, 60 no votes and no abstentions. It follows that T/13268 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the exercise of public burdens and the performance of tasks of public bodies will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/13268/3 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/13268/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rules are 61. Paragraph 6 of this Article provides that there is no possibility to maintain a proposal for amendment in the course of the decision and to request a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13268/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes to 32 with 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13268. amended bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 122 yes, 36 votes against, with 24 abstentions. It follows that T/12929 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the removal from cultivation of properties registered as closed gardens Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12929/10. T/12929/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes to 118, with five abstentions. Amendment No 4 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes to 119, with two abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes to 114, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12929/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 149 votes to four, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12929/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes to four, with 28 abstentions. [[14.20]] It follows that T/12695 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12695/6. T/12695/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12695/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 172 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12695/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 33 abstentions. Next up is the 35/2013 Hungarian Defence Office, which has a detailed breakdown. H/12926 on the amendment of the parliamentary decision Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/12926 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 147 votes to 32, with 1 abstention. Next up is the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. T/12728 amending law and other laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12728/13. T/12728/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 8 and 9 and the MSZP group of amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstention. Amendment 9 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/12728/13 of the Fidesz Group, A separate vote was initiated on point 1 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 1 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up Article 3 of the bill. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 1 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment point with 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12728/13. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 145 votes in favour, no votes against, with 35 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12728/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 32 abstentions. Next up is T/12120 on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12720/11. T/12720/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 5, 6 and 7 and the Jobbik Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 119 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 122 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 121 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. [[14.30]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12720/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 36 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12720/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes to 31, with 28 abstentions. The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service T/12699 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12699/5. T/12699/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12699/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 30, with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12699/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes to 30, with 26 abstentions. It follows that T/12477 on the amendment of certain child protection and health laws to enhance the safety and protection of children will be adopted. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12477/12. T/12477/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 4 and of amendments No 6, 7 and 8 of the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 was tabled by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 7 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please, let's go. Fuck me! [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 122 against and 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12477/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 173 votes to two, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12477/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes in favour, 34 against and 3 abstentions. It follows the H/12700 on the condemnation of the persecution and genocide in the Middle East and Africa and on the support of the persecuted. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/12700 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 175 votes to one, with three abstentions. It follows that T/12722 on the modification and acceleration of procedures relating to the registration of civil society organisations and firms will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1272/16. and the summary report by T/12722/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of the Section, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 8 and 11, the group of the MSZP Group Nos 2 and 3 and Jobbik Group Nos 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is the motion of István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 11 is István Ikotity's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 121 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 2 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 145 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 122 against and 2 abstentions. [[14.40]] Amendment 5 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 122 against and 30 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1272/16. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1272/19. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 149 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. The 2015 LXXV on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal ownership of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. T/12910 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12910/7. T/12910/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12910/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 181 unanimous votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12910/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 181 unanimous votes in favour. Next up is T/12921 on the declaration of Social Work Day as a public holiday. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain proposals for amendments. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendment No 4 and the Jobbik Group of the MSZP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 proposed by Nándor Gúr and Anita Heringes, and amendment 3 by Sebestyén Vágó and his fellow Members, presented a proposal with the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and the amendment summarised for the proposal was not tabled, we will decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12921. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 123 votes in favour, 2 against and 53 abstentions. The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment for the extension of the scope of the simple notification and further reduction of bureaucracy in the field of construction follows. T/12723. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12723/5. T/12723/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12723/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes to 30, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12723/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes to 30, with 28 abstentions. The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. T/12928 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12928/5. T/12928/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12928/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes to 28, with 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12928/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to 30, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will consider the amendments necessary by Ákos Hadházy, LMP and its fellow Members on the transparency of the state security past and on the laws necessary to exclude the professional personnel of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices T/12626. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will consider the necessary steps of the government by Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP and its fellow Members on the dispute resolution rules of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. H/12783. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 57 votes in favour, 114 votes against and two abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Magyar Zoltán, Jobbik, Member H/12843. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 58 votes in favour, 115 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our decisions and agendas. Before the speeches on the agenda, I will order a two-minute technical break and allow me to thank you for your cooperation and wish you a blessed holiday and a very happy new year. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Post-meeting speeches will follow. After the agenda, Mr Péter Ágh applied for a speech with the title of the anniversaries giving Vasi strength. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[14.50]]
u2016-12-13-62	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In 2016, I had several anniversaries in my constituency that were important to smaller and larger communities. It is important, since they have been able to draw strength from them to the future's tasks. The citizens of the North Vas County took pride in these occasions, as they pointed out the legacy that we received, which we are obliged to carry on. Allow me to explain these to you. It's been 15 years since Répcelak was inaugurated. It is symbolic that the year we remembered this, Répcelak received a large, long-awaited gift. The M86 has been completed, which has brought a new quality of life to everyone who lives there. Instead of roaring through traffic, it will ensure the quiet and quiet of the home; it has also turned the city into a system of four-track roads in Europe. It is already 180 years since the Evangelical Church was built in Sarvar. In the last few weeks, he's been re-sanctioned after restoration. Because of its past, the city is also called Hungarian Wittenberg. It is worthy that on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, with government support, this historic and ecclesiastical place became an eye-catching place.In 2016, the Berzsenyi Dániel Secondary School of Celldömölki celebrated its 70th birthday. Thanks to the government's help, the work that brought about the beauty of the institution could have been launched earlier. I trust that the school's name giver can be a good compass so that students can be good Hungarians and, above all, good people. Even before Kemenesalya's great personality, we bowed our heads. Ferenc Kresznerics was born 250 years ago, priest and priest. The whole department of Vas can be proud of it, as it has made a lasting contribution to the care of the Hungarian language. Thus, he became the builder of our nation. He was on a rock to celebrate. This year he was 150 years old for the city's wind band. Since 1866, much has happened in the world, but Kőszeg City's Flute Band has remained up and running despite the challenges. To do so, it was not luck, but the love, determination, and solidarity of the people who took part here. This feeling is common in all those who have been members of this band for the past 150 years. The winds have always been ambassadors to Kőszeg in their performances, since they have the city's reputation. Next to them was another art group celebrating in the former free royal city. Founded in 1996, the Kőszegi Stringers have grown into an art group that not only shares the beauty and love of string music with their audience, but, in cooperation with other artistic and civil society organisations, gives room to meet different trends. For the millennium, the famous point of the Kőszegi Mountains, the Seven Source, was completed in 1896. The 120-year-old spectacle was able to renew this year through state development, serving people who love nature. In November, the Csepreg Retirement Choir celebrated its 15th anniversary, which was at first only a congregation of people who wanted to sing, but their efforts were followed by success, gaining more and more recognition, contributing to the reputation of Csepreg. In addition to the cities, the villages celebrated. In 2016, he was 10 years old at the Nicki St. Anna Church Foundation. With its activities, it has contributed to the strengthening of Nick's consciousness, to making the settlement even more beautiful. It was the 120th anniversary of the establishment of the kindergarten in Kemeneshigh, which was renewed with government support. It is symbolic that the transfer took place on the day of national integration. This is also proof that our nation can stand up after every tragedy, because this development is designed for future generations, thus bearing the message of hope. The 25th Pentecost festival and the 20th regional folk dance festival were held in Gencsapáti this year, pointing out that in the settlement of nearly 3,000 people, outstanding work is being done to preserve our values. In 2016, the Sitke Cite Orchestra celebrated its 50-year anniversary in October. The orchestra founded by Zoltán Lábodi in 1966 has now become an integral part of the cultural life of the county. Its popularity is indicated by the fact that many of its members are represented among all age groups, including children, thus ensuring the replacement of the band. Also celebrated a round anniversary for the 30-year-old Chapel of Sitkei, led by our former colleague Ferenc Kovács, which organizes the national rock festival of Sitke every year for the renovation of the local chapel. Thanks to the many years of support, the two-towered monument's Calvary Chapel has been saved, and today you can admire it again in its natural glory. Dear House, The celebrations of our smaller and larger communities have a worthy, persevering strength. I trust these will encourage new generations to carry on the work of their predecessors. Thank you for your attention. [[15.00]]
u2016-12-13-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: 70 days ago in a Russian prison. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This will be my last speech this year. The aim of this speech is to promote the return of Károly Varga to Russia as soon as possible. Károly Varga is known to be a native of Nyírgyes, a respectable family man with two children, who was in the right position for a film when, on 27 September, in the early evening hours near Orjol, 120 km from the Russian-Ukrainian border, he was on the road with his truck, and ran into the supposedly unlighted Russian garden machine with him, and the Russian leader of the small garden machine lost his life on the spot. That's when the Calvary of this good man began. From 27 September to 4 October, he was in a commercial accommodation facility, at the disposal of the Russian authorities all along, without even thinking about escaping justice, although he could have done so in principle. Then came the first cold shower when he was arrested in advance on October 4th, and - hang on to everyone - not because of a road accident or a fatal road accident, but because of suspicion of manslaughter. This is a serious difference between Hungarian and Russian law. There is clearly a fatal traffic accident here, and it is not a traffic crime, but one of the most serious crimes against life that the Hungarian driver is being investigated. Even after the accident, the Russian authorities performed routine tests, crime scenes. They took blood from the driver. According to the information so far, neither alcohol nor drugs were found in the blood of the Hungarian driver, so he was driving the truck properly, cleanly, without alcohol or drug influence. In the first four to five weeks from October 4, Russian investigative authorities, judicial authorities and the Russian enforcement did not, to put it mildly, facilitate contacts with the Russian Consul of Hungary, and especially contact with the family. It took about six weeks for Károly Varga to talk to his close relatives, and they did not even allow him to communicate on the phone until then. Then two opinions were prepared, a third one still has to wait. What is unofficial is, if you like, based on oral information from family and other means, that you may have driven the truck 10-12 km/h faster than you could have; otherwise, the tachograph tests are also favourable to you. So far, it seems that the 70th day of Károly Varga's very poor quality prison has been suffering as a result of a slight increase in speed. A hearing was scheduled for 24 November, which was again postponed to 28 November; for some formal reasons this hearing was postponed. At that time, 50 thousand rubles of bail seemed to set the Hungarian driver free. Yes, but the widow, the widow of the deceased Russian driver, filed an appeal. On December 2, the new black soup came in, another cold shower came in, the pre-trial arrest was maintained, the bail was denied. In addition, I must add that the release in this case does not mean that Károly Varga can come home to Hungary, but that he should continue to stay in a specific commercial accommodation, so that he would be converted into a kind of house arrest or an exit ban for the amount of 50 thousand rubles. So, even in this more favorable case, we should wait for the return home. It should also be added that the senior consul has been on the ground several times, has personally participated in the negotiations several times, and has done everything in his power to keep this gentleman from being held under the best possible conditions. It appears that the third and very important expert opinion should continue to be pending. For reasons unknown, this goes on. I myself contacted the Attorney General of Hungary, one of the Chief Prosecutor's Assistant Prosecutors. The State Department provided the D.A. with appropriate information. As a result, a few days ago, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office turned to the Russian General Prosecutor's Office for the transfer and receipt of criminal proceedings. From then on, therefore, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has joined the proper and correct procedure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Ministry of Justice also seems to have something to do with the transfer and receipt of proceedings. The main task is therefore to coordinate the work of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Hungarian Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Hungarian and Russian main prosecutors in order to celebrate Christmas among Károly Varga's loved ones, and to end this nightmare as soon as possible, to return to Nyírmeggyes as soon as possible. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its exemplary and fair attitude and ask the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and all the decision-makers for all its influence. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] use it to allow Charles Varga to return to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, from Jobbik's group, also applied for a post-meeting speech in memory of László Paukovits. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-12-13-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, Uncle Laci left us - mourns his daughters, grandchildren, Mosonmagyaróvár and the national emotional community of the region. He was born in 1933 in Jacob, where he also graduated from primary school, then he acquired the toolmaking profession in Szombathely, and he graduated from Győr and mechanical engineering at Jedlik.He lived in Mosonmagyaróvár since 1952, worked in the metal assembly plant for forty years. In 95 he joined the MIÉP, he was never a party member before, and in 97 he also became president of the city organization. That's when I met Uncle Laci. In 98 I was very young, but I tried to help the organization. Then - I remember - I just turned my 18th birthday, and the first thing I did was ride my bike over to Uncle Laci's and bring the entry form. I couldn't wait to be officially part of this community. Then, of course, it was the 2002 campaign that really shook us together. What was Uncle Laci like? Above all, he is thoughtful, kind, selfless and modest. We have never experienced a boastful or loud attitude on his part. Today's tabloid, unscrupulous, selfish political approach was far from him. He led this community, but he was more of a background. His commitment to the nation was unquestioned, and I am not just referring to his political activity. He may not have been engaged in strict party politics, but rather he was motivated by common national affairs, and rather, these were the issues in which he had a lasting effect. Every Mosonmagyaróvári knows where the Trianon Cross is, where this monument was re-established. Of course, many people helped with this work, the Evangelical congregation contributed to the area, young people and contemporary intellectuals in Mosonmagyaróvár, the national emotional part of the work was definitely involved, but we have to say that it was up to Uncle Laci alone. His work is well illustrated by the fact that he achieved more in that city alone on a bicycle for such national thoughts and actions than we did; when we wanted to replace this work, the four of us, equipped with modern tools, could not stand that pace. He never did anything for himself, always for the community, always for the nation, and in addition to his exemplary activity, he has always demonstrated this with his life. He also understood when he tried to give up the organization's leadership by reference to his age, and he tried to find out who could carry on this movement; he understood that I felt very young at that time, and I was not able to take it. He understood, as I did vice versa, years later, when it became clear that that community could no longer achieve the goal it had set itself, mainly on internal grounds, and in a new formation, a XXI. I began to work in Jobbik in the form of a centuries-old party; he protected me, feared me, but encouraged me and understood my decision. At that time, he was not actively with us by reference to his old age, but all along we felt his presence behind us and could ask for his advice in anything. He had a big dream, but it couldn't have been fulfilled until now. Since he loved Albert Wass, and by the way, through the agricultural university, Albert Wass had something to do with Mosonmagyaróvár, we would like to erect a public statue in memory of Wass Albert, and that was Uncle Laci's idea and great dream. [[15.10]] I'm so sorry you didn't get to see this. The preparations have begun. Most of the bureaucratic parts are over, and the implementation is about to begin. I know that from up there, when this great dream is finally fulfilled and finished, you will look down on us with the same smile that we have experienced so many times when we have achieved success together. I am very pleased to have known him, and that is the case for everyone who may have come close to him, since he has given us an example for a lifetime. I hope that we can carry this forward and pass it on with a good heart and a really strong faith. God rest your soul, Uncle Laci. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-68	Mr President, Dear House, During the Advent period, we should all look in a little bit, appreciate the past months and years, and say that we should withdraw the balance on which no one can be proud of his certificate, especially as regards the situation, Christmas and holiday preparations of the difficult Hungarian families. I can obviously get the most direct experience in this area in the receiving hours, and I have to say that there is a wide range of victims who are in trouble who come to see me in the host hour. I have mentioned several times about the Kispest family that is about to be evicted, with whom the National Asset Manager does not speak, because in the meantime the creditor bank has begun to liquidate itself, disappeared, cannot be found at its premises, and now the family has to prepare for the holidays in such a way as to be trembling for executives who are harassing and threatening those affected from several directions. On the one hand, they are harassed because they have also failed to pay public utility charges in order to be able to repay their repayments, and obviously they also belong to the bank, which, although not available, can send its vesicant and outgoings to the parties concerned. I also met an entrepreneur in Óbuda who took 24 million forints, paid 17 forints, and today's debt was surprisingly 86 million forints, since this amazing amount was paid to him with various penalty fees, enforcement fees and other procedural fees, by the way, on A4 pages, partly filled out with hand and pen. So you can see that this system is still bleeding from a thousand wounds. And while in an Advent fair, we see crowds preparing for Christmas in a pleasant atmosphere, we also need to see that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen cannot be so calm and can not be so peaceful about the time of the holiday preparation, which is unacceptable in itself. So none of us can sleep fully until we solve the problems of our fellow countrymen. That is why it was painful for me to hear the President of the Central Bank of Matolcsy yesterday in the Committee of Economics to listen to him, to listen to him, to ask questions, because, in addition to his appreciation for an excellent foreign exchange-credit settlement, he himself acknowledged that these people, the more than 140 thousand of our countrymen who are no longer capable of fulfilling the situation of their family members, could not even achieve the desired economic growth, as the tragedy and Calvary of our fellow citizens in the Hungarian economy is a 5-10-15 year-old impression. So much of the President of the Central Bank has already been forced to see in the fairy tale world that real people's real problems have to be dealt with here. Therefore, I did not mean to be a political gag at all when I indicated to him that I would be very happy to accompany him to the family in Kispest, or even give him the contact, the same is clearly true for the families in Óbuda, but we would very much like to ensure that the actors of all political formations and, where appropriate, the heads of the central bank also have direct experience with those involved, to look for real families, to learn about real people's real problems. After all, we see that the Hungarian National Bank has more than HUF 200 billion, which was accumulated during the foreign exchange credit conversion, and which could be used to settle the situation of the credit-damaged. In addition to this, a home creation program could create a situation in which these poor people would not tremble before Christmas and the holiday, they would be in a position to have at least the slightest chance of restoring their original life and living conditions. That is why we are asking the government to break your pact with the Banking Alliance, finally to take a path that is viable and acceptable to the victims. And we must say that the Romanian decision on a conversion at the time of admission has recently opened the door to the Government of Hungary. So we wish spirit courage in the Advent period, a little more determination and determination to act, and that in the same period of the following year we do not have to hold a post-scheduled speech on a similar subject, as this would mean that the most difficult Hungarian families not only have Christmases, the days of the holiday preparation, but their everyday life can be a little more beautiful at last. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title "Under the Christmas tree of South Somogy." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, How are we doing? - ask the nice leader or some government party puppy from the average citizen in Somogy, if you're wrong over there. We're fine, we're fine - I could fool around with the decent people here. According to a recent national survey of Internet users over 18 years of age, Somogy County spends the least on Christmas presents in Hungary. On average, only HUF 25,000 is intended for the purchase of surprises, leaving behind a hundred thousand HUF Christmas budget for Vasians or Komárom-Esztergom County, and although Christmas is obviously not about the purchase of material goods and money does not make me happy, but its absence makes me particularly unhappy. They could tell a lot about this in the hopeless settlements of the southern part of the county sunk into periphery. Because believe it or not, my fellow pro-government Members, the Hungarian reforms of Fidesz around here somehow don't work. I fear that at the end we may begin to be ashamed of this, because if the explanation of the PISA survey by János Lázár, that the shockingly bad results are not the government, but the teachers are the ones who are to blame, then this can certainly be applied to the broken walks of Somogyária, drowning without a public lifeline. So, by any chance, the red and orange governments that wipe the area off the map are not responsible, let's say that there are more registered unemployed in this single county than there are in the counties of Vas, Győr-Moson-Sopron and Komárom-Esztergom, but the people who live here; it is that simple, at least following the Habonyi logic. What, then, could be desired under the Christmas tree of South Somogy? Non-gentlemen live here, so the helicopter self-realization, which is the peak of the Maslow Pyramid, is far from the desires of the people here. This is not some kind of sinful greed, for with common sense, few hope that divine or government favor will smile at them in a dividend of 9.5 million a day, and they will see that they are not as talented and industrious as Mr. Butcher blessed with a polyhistory talent. But the South Somogyans don't even crave luxury items like Berluti's 700,000-forint-priced Berluti briefcase or the former Vuitton Riddik of 400,000-dollar, fancy Vuitton. On the other hand, a pro-government and opposition citizen would be pleased to find a couple of boxes under the symbolic Christmas tree of South Somogy, and there would be a promise in one of them: "Dear South Somogyi, from Kaposfő to Darány, from Gyékényes to Hedrehely! We are ashamed that our omissions allowed the people of South Somogy to feel so justified that major politics treats this beautiful corner of the Hungarian countryside as step-alongers. We, the Potentates of this House sitting in the ministerial velvet chairs, sworn to serve the people, promise with a sacred vow that from now on we will pay more attention to your narrowest Patria. We regret that over the past decades, they have been forced to feel that we have written down your villages and forgotten about your village. *Then, if the Jesus of South Somogy is kind, there will be another gift box under the imaginary tree. In it, Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, wrote in gold letters his reply to a speech before the agenda on 6 December, stating that the politician must show respect, in particular, to the electorate. This can be shown by the fact that he considers himself bound by the opinion that he is drawing up. After all, our title is that we are a representative, so we represent the opinions and interests of the people. But it would be nice if they did so from now on! [[15.20]] And if, for example, a village community stands up for its school as one, it will not be closed, but if, and in response to that, the outraged locals will at least deserve to at least respond to their petition, standing up for their institution, collecting more signatures than the village voted for Fidesz. We hope that, in addition to filling the gifted boxes of large parasites climbing on the cucumber tree with billions of public money, one of them will remember to put these little surprises under the Christmas tree of South Somogy. I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas holiday! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-12-13-71	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for an after-the-date speech. We can change that. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-13-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As Christmas approached, I also wondered what it would be possible to give to Hungarian society, since the daily activities of Hungarian legislation do not usually tell about what will happen to people, and I wanted to see something more meaningful under the Christmas tree, something that can be enjoyed in the longer term, making families happy in the longer term. Accordingly, I have asked for the inclusion of today's series of articles in an obsolescence-blocking salad package, which, as a result of international law, is not just a consumer, but a product fee regulation far beyond that, a waste regulation and the implementation of an environmental regulation together. Thus, during Christmas, when more and more people are able to give less and less, it is very, very important to know how long products, household products and technical devices that we buy, will bring happiness: just until they unpack that product and then maybe pull it out until the end of warranty time in the next few months, and then it will be destroyed, or, in the long term, a product that will bring joy and everyday use under the trees. In the legislative proposal, I wanted to propose and propose that, as far as possible, we should try to persuade distributors and, above all, manufacturers in consumer protection legislation to try to ensure their products are clearly operational with significantly longer warranty periods. With this obsolescence inhibition, it can be helped that this built-in obsolescence, which in many cases we experience in technical products, can be pushed out, and can be used and applied in the longer term. Obviously, it is not just that warranty times alone would solve everything, but everyone has faced the problem of buying something as a gift for someone, it is broken, and the replacement or repair of the component cost more than a new component itself. This is a major social problem, because we are not only wasting raw materials, we are not only producing technical waste, we are not able to do anything about it, but we are losing the product that we wanted to please our loved ones. If we are about to have longer warranty periods and, if possible, mandatory spare parts supply, then we also need to ensure that these products do not run out and that there is a mandatory service network for products from large international companies that are placed on the market in Hungary. Let us ensure that there is an obligation everywhere to ensure that people in rural areas are able to seek professional technical assistance in the event of any malfunction, and not how to avoid it. The legislative package that prevents obsolescence, which the Committee for Sustainable Development has not included in the series of subjects today, was mainly designed to ensure that the government takes responsibility for protecting Hungarian consumers and protecting Hungarian citizens. Because who else would protect people from the economic interests of international companies, who else can stand there to protect families and small people, that after buying the product that they bought is worth their money, is worth the price, will it be useful in the long term? If the government backs out of this and refuses to do so, if the Hungarian Parliament backs out, no one will protect the Hungarian consumers. Then, as a country of junk and disposable limos, we only have to face the waste management problem and the production of hazardous waste, and by buying our loved ones the same hair dryer, the same vacuum cleaner, or the same small radio, because they did not keep their condition in such a way that it could be used in the long term. The vast majority of Hungarian people are small-money people, with little money, so it would be vital that if you invest your money in something, and if you make your family happy with a television or a major technical device, you can use it until the longest possible date. Obviously, I do not want to give extreme examples of the 35-year operation of Russian Saratov refrigerators and a number of such practices, because the aim is not to prevent technological technological developments from coming into households, because come in, make the tools more energy-saving and modern, but all of this so that people don't spend their money on waste production simply, not by annoying what went wrong. Obviously, in order to try to show kindness, perhaps in a less condemnable way, in the celebration of love, to give gifts to our loved ones, these products should not, in the long term, be products of annoyance, it would be good for the Hungarian Parliament to do everything in its power to provide protection against the built-in obsolescence technology of international manufacturers. I wanted to ask the Committee on Sustainable Development to do this. Unfortunately, I failed to enforce my opinion in the pro-government majority, so soon, if I have the chance, I will try to use the same legislation to ask the Parliament to help us to think together about what we can do for Hungarian consumers and Hungarian citizens. At the end of my speech, I think the only thing left is to wish the country and all of us a pleasant, peaceful family Christmas and a much better year and a more successful year than this year. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-13-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. I thank you for your year-round work. I wish all my fellow Members, the minority advocates, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and all those who monitor our work, blessed, peaceful holidays and a good rest. Goodbye. [[The meeting ended at 5:26 p.m.]]
