u2016-12-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 32nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, József Attila Móring and István Szávay will be notaries to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of KDNP, has applied for a pre-meeting speech in the capacity of his representatives. The title of King Charles. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-12-12-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, On December 30th, it will be a hundred years that the capital is dressed in festive ornaments. After forty-nine years, the Church of the Great Bold Woman of Budavár once again hosted a coronation. The ceremony was conducted by Prince János Cernoch, and the crown of St. Stephen was placed on the king's head with István Tisza, the Deputy Prime Minister. Then the whole church kept the king alive for a long time, and the Hungarian anthem was heard for the first time at the coronation. But this coronation was not the privilege of aristocracy, the whole country was celebrating. Zsigmond Móricz wrote about this in the next day's Pesti Hírlap:, There was a thick wall between the Mátyás church and the palace between the Székely, the Gobe with the stockings, and the Abauji with the golden shimmering, wheat case, and borcery; in the Hungarian flaggy pants of Szabolcs, and in the cliffed fur of the Borsodi palóc. They fed their eyes with unspeakable love on the levente king, who manned the four cuts with St. Stephen's plank. A merry-hearted king, said a wise man of the lowland, with the dignity of a bronze. This peace is made, if possible, because it has no trouble in its heart. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There was a bloody war two years ago. King Charles was the only ruler who sincerely wanted peace and took every risk for it. Right after his enthronement, when the Monarchy's troops were in an even better position. In the east, the triumphant advance of General Mackensen was reported, and on the western front we could read about continuous successes. But he couldn't find any understanding with the ally or the enemy, even from his own environment. True, at that time it was not apparent that the plan of dismembering the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy had already been born before the war in the mind of the later winners. CHAPTER IV King Charles of Hungary was a military man with a straight character, without any deviousness. He feared the horrors of the war, and he took the fate of his subordinates to heart. For example, among his first actions, he abolished corporal punishment in the army. The most shocking moment of the coronation tells much about it when soldiers in gravely wounded, pike-grey suits lined up to inaugurate the usual knights of the golden spurs. His first statue was erected in May 1917 in honor of their beloved military leader in Nagybecskek, the 12th Infantry Regiment. With the Trianon decision, the city went to the Kingdom of Serbia-Croatian-Slovenian, where, like so many of our memories, it lost its mark. In Eckartsau, on 13 November 1918, he resigned from all participation in the conduct of Hungarian affairs. I don't want my person to be an obstacle to the free development of the Hungarian nation, to which I am moved by unchanging love... On his deathbed, he forgave everyone, including those who betrayed him. On his last day, he said: "My efforts were always and in all things the purest recognition and follow-up of God's will, in the most perfect way humanly possible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Her grave became a pilgrimage. It was inaugurated in the autumn of 2004. ANNEX II Pope John Paul chose the day of his Memorial Day, not his death, but his wedding, thus pointing out that marriage is one of the ways of becoming a saint. Dear House, Szent István opened the ranks of our confessing kings, and Happy IV. The picture was complete with a card. The Hungarians can be proud of their rulers, from St. Stephen through St. László Happy IV. To Charles. In addition to their life examples, we can rely on their heavenly intervention. Thank you for the House's great attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and sporadic applause from the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-2	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Dear House, Ottó Habsburg said of his father: "My father's career is an example of how politics can bring man to holiness. I believe this is said about few, but Hungary has indeed been granted the grace that not only its excellent kings, knight kings, country builders, castle builders, but also his first king is a saint, and his last king is happy. [[10.40]] And it can always give Hungarians hope, it can always give us confidence that the fate of our country formed by the hand of such excellent people. Many things can be said in a short time IV. Charles' activities, since the first Ministry of Social Affairs of Hungary was established during his reign. Not only was the measure referred to by the Deputy Prime Minister, but it was also a very important step forward in the military, in addition to extending national rights and suffrage. He defined the dominant profession as a sacrificial path to following Christ himself. In all his actions, as he said, he was driven by his love for the peoples he entrusted to him; and he was the ruler of XV. He took Pope Benedict's efforts to make peace seriously, and he himself tried to do it for peace from the very first moment. In 1917, in the spring of 1917, he sought to make a difference in peace. He was the one who recognized what might be one of the conclusions of the duality of the reign of Joseph Ferenc, that if he looks down on the Hungarians, not looking down on them, not as subjects, but as partners, he could gain the love of the people. As I said, the service of peace was one of his first, self-defined tasks. It was perfectly natural, perhaps, during a war period. I quote the statement quoted by Deputy Prime Minister, with another sentence: I have always sought to rid my people of the horrors of war as soon as possible since I entered the throne; I had no part in the creation of a deep war. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These experiments have started, but they have been relatively limited to success. At the same time, the Holy See acknowledged the evidence of its holiness with happiness in 2003. There was a miraculous healing in Brazil that opened the way to happiness, both because of the heroic virtue and because of the sanctity of life. Now on December 30, at 10:30, we can remember the inauguration, the 100th anniversary of the king's coronation. He wishes to remember all the kings of Hungary, including the last king of Hungary. For this reason, we remember the coronation where, as it was said, the Hungarian Anthem was first heard, with its solemn Mass, celebrated by Cardinal at the Matthias Church in Budavár. They were not singing the Austrian anthem, they were singing the Hungarian Anthem. It was also important to mention that the war invalids of the First World War were marching separately during the coronation. Not only this festive Mass, but earlier, we also saluted statue IV. Before the memory of Charles, which was jointly inaugurated by Deputy Prime Minister Mária Schmidt and György Habsburg in the Park of Town Hall, as a work by Richárd Juha in the framework of the centenary anniversary series, the 100th anniversary commemoration of World War I. On the Habsburg Ottó Foundation, the National Assembly passed a law, resulting in the processing of the intellectual and material monuments of Otto Habsburg, the maintenance, preservation, collection arrangement, the provision of research, the coordination of exhibitions in a dignified manner or the establishment of a conference centre are all the tasks of this foundation. Another important event, which will take place this year, will be commemorating and presenting the events of the coronation at the Hungarian National Museum on 19 December. This is his attempt to place this last coronation event in Hungary in the entire World War I series. A significant part of the exhibition material has already arrived at the József nádor halls, documentaries are being finalized, and numerous related programs will present this period of Hungary with guided tour, book presentations and museum pedagogy. It is important that we know our history, it is important that we respect our rulers, and everyone else who has done this for Hungarians, Hungarians, for the peace of Hungarian people, for the growth of Hungarian people, so it is important that we look back to the last Hungarian coronation for 100 years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-4	The LMP representative, Ákos Hadházy, also applied for a speech before the agenda. After the departure of Zoltán Balog, the title of Hungarian education must be renewed. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-12-12-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I was quite shocked to hear Zsolt Semjén's earlier comment IV. Charles' coronation ceremony; I was even afraid that he would suggest that someone should be crowned here at the end of the day. However, I would like to talk about a much more important and up-to-date issue, namely the very bad results of the PISA tests, the survey of the knowledge of Hungarian children. When we talked a lot about the refugee crisis last year, we talked a lot about it, talked a lot about the symptoms, much less about the causes. One of the most important reasons is that Islamic societies are on the verge of collapse if they are not yet collapsed. [[10.50]] They are on the brink of collapse because a new world order has developed over the past decade or two, where the true power of countries is no longer the mineral resources, but knowledge, technology, innovation and innovation. Instead of knowledge, these countries have invested all their energy in opposition - looking at how many patents have appeared in these countries - and unfortunately, these societies are on the verge of collapse. This is one of the main causes of the refugee crisis. Unfortunately, these countries now belong to Russia, and, as the PISA test shows, and as we see it, Hungary is becoming more and more so. We are also taking part in the refugee crisis, as a lot of people are leaving Hungary, among other things because of our education. Knowledge is power, it is a phrase, but knowledge also means prosperity, but not knowledge means vulnerability and poverty. When the Hungarian government talks about creating a work-based society, it is terribly wrong to create a knowledge-based society. Poverty will be revived if we want to create a community-based society; this has been established for the time being. We know very well, and I think everyone who is here knows very well that poverty doesn't really come out of community service, it's learning, learning and learning. It's not new, it's IV. They told me during Charles' time, and they told me before that, who were really great in Hungary. Instead, you destroyed education. We succeeded, and the great thing is that in a few years we managed to improve the quality of Hungarian education. I've been thinking a lot about why they did this, why it was good. There may be three reasons to list, and all three may be true. One might be that they didn't do it on purpose, they were stupid to do it, they didn't think well that if they further increase children's addiction, military education, military education, this could lead to this. That could have been one of the reasons. We understand that Rose Hoffmann didn't make this whole thing up, but much higher than the Prime Minister. The second one might be on purpose. I hope not, but in fact, it would be logical if this thing was invented on purpose, since underqualified people are better suited to be subjective. The underqualified man will not be free, he cannot be as free as the skilled man, and this can certainly be good for you. Motivated, cheerful, well-trained people are independent people, and this is not appropriate for your political purpose. The third reason could be, and I think that is probably the real thing, is that you simply stole the education reform. The European Union has spent dozens of billions of forints on education reform, but most of these funds have gone into private pockets. My favourite is that in the case of competence-based tests, such as those in Hungary, a company was charged 160 million forints to bring the results into the computer, but then 16 million forints were paid to rent an office at 25 Akadémia Street, opposite the Ministry, where they would make these entries. This reform was stolen, but something had to be put down on the table, it had to be put together quickly, and the one terrible thing that they brought together, these textbooks are terrible, the whole system is terrible, and the worst thing about it is that if we don't use it for at least five years, then the European Union has to pay these money back. I think that the results shown by the PISA test clearly point to the fact that if one person has to leave this government, it is Minister Balog, and it is actually good news in this respect when we see or hear that he might fail to become President of the State, because such news is coming. As a matter of fact, we should welcome this, because he was the most damaging minister ever. He sued me when I said he was responsible for these educational reforms. That's a good point. He doesn't even come to Parliament. He's always pushing his secretary of state. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-6	It is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-7	Thank you very much, there have been such difficulties even in the part of silence. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would not consider how and how you talk about Hungarian rulers, when you remember who you may have different opinions about, but also because you were the king of Hungary, it is appropriate to give respect to everyone. But that you are a sign of equality between immigrants - who come to Europe illegally, and some of them are committing attacks, crimes, acts of violence - and Hungarian migrant workers, who work in Western Europe fully legally, under their freedom within the European Union... are the same immigrant crossing the border who wants to illegally enter Hungary through the police force, and the Hungarian youth who thinks that he works in Austria or Germany for a while, honourable Member, this shows total insensitiveness and, with a simple rhetorical expression, the violation of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. Honourable Congressman, You have been talking about the results of a kind of survey, and you know very well that not only the PISA results have been produced, but the results of the TIMSS and the national competence measurement have also been published in recent weeks, and you could have compared the results of the TIMSS and PISA results with the previous ones. If I look at the PISA results quoted by you: 28-29 from 35 countries. Hungary in relation to educational results. By the way, based on GDP/person results, we are the 31st, and it is worth measuring - according to several aspects, but it is also worth measuring - our PISA results. However, the part that shows a worsening trend, of course, is a warning to everyone that this issue should be dealt with in depth, that it is worth sitting down with teachers, professional organisations, student organisations, employers' organisations, and that part of the results should be evaluated. But let us not forget that, for example, in the case of mathematical results - these studies are carried out every three years - the results of the previous three studies showed a clear decline in Hungarian results, while the current trend was halted and stagnated by mathematical results. This is still not an improvement, but at least it means stopping the process in this area. Obviously, the next one will tell us exactly what the sequel will be. In the other two cases, there has indeed been a decline, but if you are already demanding resignations in Hungary, I do not know what you would do in Poland, where the results have been reduced by 24 points, in South Korea, where they have been reduced by 22, Hong Kong, where there are 32 or Finland, where the result is one of the best, but the result has dropped by 15 points in a single measurement cycle. Then do you consider Finland a role model, or do you think that in Finland you should resign the Minister for Education because the results fell by 15 points? Then, at a faction meeting, decide exactly what the LMP's position on this is. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that Hungarian data are indeed 5 percent below the OECD average - 5 percent! - but it's worth considering a lot of other aspects. It is also important to see that in recent years, there have been additional resources in the field of education that have not been at all typical for previous years, and that it has obviously been a factor in the absorption of resources, while in the past period, if I only look at the period 2010-15, so I do not count the additional HUF 104 billion coming from next year, it was, according to the OECD's latest survey, a surplus of 1.2 percent of GDP, i.e. almost one and a half percent of GDP in education, so that inflation did not erode this. And if I look at another survey, such as the TIMSS report, the scores of not so much PISA-based application of knowledge, but the acquisition of knowledge, then in mathematics, the former 515 points to 525, in mathematics, the 505 points to 514 points in eighth graders, in the case of natural sciences, the lexical knowledge rose from 534 to 542 points in fourth graders, while in the case of natural sciences, from 522 to 527 points in eighth graders. So here we see a positive change for all four metrics. This means, honourable Member, that the picture is not as simple as you have tried to project it in your speech. On a PISA test, where complex thinking is measured, that certainly wouldn't have been the right result. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-8	Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, will now come:. Try it, it's worth it! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-9	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, While some people loot the country and forced 600,000 people to leave Hungary in order to make a living - skilled people, young people, 80 percent under 40 - while bombing people with lying statistics, they want them to believe that they are living better. The Hungarian Socialist Party has been saying for years the necessity of raising salaries and arguing for it, and last year you have increased the poverty of your employees. [[11.00]] They took me where they should have taken me. With regard to the 2017 minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage, you can only say that the story has been delayed, those who have already left will not be returned, and the budget will actually cost nothing. When you think about it, through personal income taxes, through various contributions, through VAT, the budget will bring back the money it provides in reducing contributions. I must say that we are also in bad shape with regard to the Visegrád 4 as there is the net value of the minimum wage, whether it is in the Czechs, the Poles or the Slovaks, between 100 and 110 thousand net, while at the moment in Hungary it does not reach 74 thousand forints. Meanwhile, 35 percent of the minimum wage is withdrawn. This is the highest withdrawal within the Visegrád Four. At the minimum wage not reaching 74 thousand HUF, a tax and tax burden of 69 thousand HUF will appear, i.e. it was 32,000 HUF six or seven years ago. All I can say is they're tearing society apart. The urizing Fidesz elite is able to pair and invent helicopter party barons with a series of frauds, to bring to life in the government, to create overpriced, one-man public procurements, and public funds land with friends, pereputty. Meanwhile, the middle class is fading, while, as I said, the workers' poverty is growing in a moderate way. 2.2 million people who work earn less than the sum of the minimum living per person. Now more than 200,000 people, I'm talking about public workers, earning less than in 2010. Newer thinking is that they want to rule out people under the age of 25 from the possibility of public employment. We are facing a stolen health problem, vulnerable millions appear as consumers, a destroyed education system, PISA studies, you want to pass this on to teachers in an unfair way. What I'm trying to say is that, in terms of increasing differences, there are huge differences between the urizing elite and the people living everyday life, i.e. their way of life. So while some people steal this country, they lie in our eyes, fool people, and see people suffer their everyday lives. Please note that this country is not just for some people; it is not for the fidesz, it is for the friends, it is for the neighbors, it is for the family, it is for the people who live here. Everyone needs a safe and decent living. It's no coincidence that this is why a raise is important, 100 thousand forints net. But the government would also have a role to play in this, making the minimum wage tax-free. It is no coincidence that it is necessary to set up a new pension calculation system, so that there is no pension below HUF 50,000, so that the growth of the economy is also taken into account, not only pension increases being announced; so that the pension system is flexible. There is also a need to reduce energy prices. Because at a time when the oil price was $50 and the gas price was HUF 50 per cubic meter, we are now faced with gas prices above HUF 100 per cubic metre, compared to the oil price of $40 to $50, the system is working unfairly. In 2011-12, significant increases were made in this respect, from 13 onwards lollipops are distributed, with a small decrease, and gas prices are higher in 16 than in 2010 over 1200 cubic metres of consumption. But there is also work to be done with regard to VAT reduction; it is not dripd, not step by step. And I have to say, for equal opportunities, access to knowledge and survival in health has become an important issue. The Urizing Fidesz elite has luxury conditions, and the others have nothing. No, not to steal, not to cheat, not to lie, no! It's for the good of the people, it's for them. I suggest you try. Try it. It's worth it, even if they're not filling your pockets for dessert. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-10	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to express my regret that Hungarians working abroad continue to be considered economic refugees. I think your child is not an economic refugee either because he worked in Brussels for a few years - neither is he. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, No one expects you to bounce around day after day, welcoming government measures. However, I ask you not to keep silent about decisions that have led many to take a step forward in their own lives. For example, it's about wage increases. This opportunity, the possibility of wage increases, was not won by the lottery, but had to create its conditions. This can be achieved primarily by tax reductions. Since 2010, the government has consistently sought to reduce taxes, because these tax cuts still allow wage increases. With tax cuts for wage increases, that's our goal. As for concrete measures, the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent next year, and I regret that you did not refer to this and then by 8 percent. Next year, the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 25 percent, then by another 12 percent the following year. For you, as the last secretary of the KISZ county, I think these measures must not be indifferent. Of course, it is also important for businesses to be able to produce these increased wages and to manage them without reducing their competitiveness. That is why corporate tax is reduced to 9 percent, which, by the way, will be the lowest in Europe with 19 percent at your time. The difference between the two can now be used to raise the wage. Employees' taxes are reduced by 5 percentage points with the acceptance of employers, employers and employees and the government, which has not been mentioned. The wage-raise programmes also affect the public sector, and the teachers' career model and law enforcement continue. The people who work here will, on average, get 50 percent more. At two paces, the wages of health care workers are increased by HUF 207,000, with caregivers increasing by 65 percent. You can expect more money from people in the district office and from employees in the government office. That's just a few examples. We do not claim that these steps are sufficient, but we claim that they are steps in the right direction. As far as families in need are concerned, today there are 680,000 more people working than when you handed over government. I'm telling you this because the shortest way out of poverty is to have a job. Today we have 680,000 new jobs in this area. As for energy prices, when you steered, the price of gas tripled, twice the price of electricity. So we do not accept lectures in this area, even if we are pleased that the MSZP has recognised the importance of reducing costs. And one more thing: for years, the left was just watching foreign exchange crooks get caught in a debt trap, while under your governance, the stock of foreign currency loans increased by 150 times, increasing infernal debt. I'm telling you this because currency lending was one of the most important causes of poverty. I would also like to tell you that 318 thousand children receive free meals three times a day, and over 700,000 receive free textbooks. We do not want to see even a family in this country who does not send their children to school because they cannot afford it. You had every opportunity to fight for the Hungarian families. They could have fought for them, but they didn't. Instead, the left-wing puttony included debt at the state level and at the level of the families, a dwindling economy, doubling unemployment, foreign exchange loans and the resulting debt trap, a month's wage and pension withdrawal, and the most serious: taking away the honour of the work. It was better worth living in Hungary on welfare instead of working. These are things that clearly involve a massive political vibe. These are left-wing actions of which nothing is worth continuing, and nothing is worth preserving. I suggest that we not return to this era. We insist on strengthening the independence of the Hungarian economy, in order for everyone to live from work instead of aid, and in order to help raise wages through tax cuts. All of this means that we are stubbornly insisting that Hungary be strengthened. These, I think, are good goals, are worth working for. We regret that we cannot count on MSZP in this regard. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-12	Mr Zsolt Németh, on behalf of Fidesz, will now be next with the title "The Elections in Romania." Here you go.
u2016-12-12-13	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, During the morning, it was announced that the left won 46 percent in Romania, and the largest opposition party received 20 percent. [[11.10]] We congratulate the winning party, the winning political force, and, of course, congratulate the people of Romania, because basically Romania has made a successful election, and this is in any case also the victory of Romanian democracy. It is therefore important to stress that Hungary is ready, in the current situation, to change together the situation that has been achieved in recent years in Hungarian-Romanian relations. We regret that Hungarian-Romanian relations have gradually deteriorated over the last five years; Hungary is interested in changing this. This will be possible if we can achieve a bilateral relationship based on mutual respect, which is clearly possible through the identification of common interests. On our part, this is not a party political issue, and I would like to strongly underline this. In recent years, Hungary has been able to cooperate with the Romanian left. It was a good example of this in 2001 when the application of the status law in Romania was possible under the Orbán-Năstase agreement. So it is not a party policy issue, but a committed intention to change the bilateral situation, and we would like to emphasise this openness from the Hungarian side. As far as the results of Transylvanian Hungarians are concerned, I believe that the team list has achieved a rather unique success. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in four Transylvanian counties the Hungarians have succeeded in winning, by the way, that the Romanian social democrats have won victory in 36 counties. This 6.4 percent result can also be considered the fourth best result in the strong order of the parties. The participation of Hungarians seems to have exceeded the average Romanian participation in all counties. I think that this is the result. So the Hungarian cooperation in Transylvania was successful, this strategy was successful, and I think it follows that it is important that both the RMDSZ and the other political forces in Romania continue on this path. It's worth walking along the path of unity. But perhaps, more importantly, from the point of view of Transylvanian Hungarians, the fact that the Transylvanian Hungarians were able to show their strength so seriously reflects the belief that there is a Hungarian future in Transylvania. The Transylvanian Hungarians believe that there is a Hungarian future in Transylvania, and are ready to bring up strength when political parties and political interest groups are able to unite. And if the Transylvanian Hungarians believe in it, then I think that Hungary's task is to believe that it is possible to provide a long-term future for Transylvanian Hungarians. This is possible through direct cooperation, as in recent years we have been able to prove that there is scope for national policy that is directly trying to help Hungarian communities across the border. We also have room for manoeuvre through improving bilateral relations, as this is what the Hungarian-Slovak relationship has been about in recent years. A very important parallel is that there was also a system of relationships that had a great deal of problems. This left-wing political force lost the elections, and when it returned, it was able to achieve a new beginning, led by Prime Minister Fico in Slovakia. We trust that there is hope for this analogy in Romania to improve bilateral relations, and, of course, we will also support the Hungarian future in Transylvania in the international arena. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-14	I give the floor to Secretary of State of Árpád Potápi. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Honourable Congressman, In the last few days, the entire Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin were excited about the parliamentary elections in Romania. Today, I think we can say that the greatest result that has been achieved in this case during the elections is cooperation; that the Hungarian political forces in Transylvania have admitted that they must put aside their decades of differences in the interests of Hungarian representation. The Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania and the Hungarian Civil Party have shown by example to all Hungarian organizations in all regions that they are able to join forces in order to preserve Hungarian citizenship. It is important to have the unity, the cooperation behind which the Hungarian government can then stand in all relevant matters in every Hungarian region. In recent weeks, however, I think that not only the Transylvanian Hungarians held on together, but the whole Carpathian Basin moved together, from Bratislava to Budapest to Novi Sad. The Prime Minister personally visited Transylvania last week in Szatmárnémeti to encourage the Hungarians living there to participate. Mr Speaker, ministers, ministers of state, representatives, politicians and public figures all spoke in favour of the elections in order to mobilise them. Not only in the mother country, but also in the neighbouring countries, where there are Hungarian organizations, there are Hungarian parties, they strongly supported the Transylvanian Hungarians. I can say the same for the Hungarian Permanent Conference on 1 December, where this was a point in the declaration, which was accepted by the Hungarian Permanent Conference. I am also aware of a highland congregation where the Transylvanian elections, the Transylvanian Hungarians, were worshipped during the service. I would like to thank the Hungarian public media. Yesterday, a thematic day was held on this occasion, where the topic was covered in many aspects, and we could be completely up-to-date in Hungary and the whole world as regards the elections in Romania and Transylvania. The success of this cooperation is shown by the more than 6 percent, the projected 6.33% result, which represents more than 450 thousand voters, which represents 16 Hungarian representatives in the Romanian House of Representatives and 3 in the Senate for the next term. I would also like to congratulate the elected Members and the senators from this place. Let me give you some of the numbers that have already been mentioned by the Member. In four counties inhabited by Hungarians, the result was well above the national average. Such Harghita county, Bihar county, Szilágy county, Kolozs county, but also in Muros county, those who went to vote reached close to the national average. I would also like to highlight some settlements. Harghita County did show a 44.6 percent participation rate, and here Csíkrákos reached nearly 65 percent, who appeared in the vote, the second place in Madeville with 63.34, and the third, not far behind, by the way, in Csíkdánfalva. I think it is important that the names of the settlements should be spoken, as they were the toughest in favour of cooperation, the hardest in favour of Transylvania, the cause of Hungarianism. I would also like to congratulate the two parties of this cooperation, the RMDSZ and the MPP, their leaders: Presidents Hunor Kelemen and Zsolt Biró. And, of course, I would like to thank all those who took part in the vote, the Hungarians who went to vote yesterday, and, of course, especially those who supported the list of cooperation. Congratulations to Transylvania. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2016-12-12-16	Finally, in the line of speeches before the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, on behalf of Jobbik:. Functional illiteracy is spreading in Emmi - why do they not understand the PISA results in the government? He will address his speech with a title. I would like to ask my fellow Members, if possible, to reduce the noise rather than increase as the number increases. Thank you. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The results of the PISA test show that the results of Hungarian students have deteriorated in terms of both scientific and text understanding competences, and that we can see stagnation in terms of mathematical skills compared to previous results. It is worth drawing on both political and professional consistency of this survey, and in my speech I am attempting to review them. [[Noise.]] On the government side, the reaction was that everyone was wrong, but we weren't. First of all, Secretary of State László Palkovics said that it was really the worksheet that was wrong, because it contained a type of task that Hungarian children cannot learn at school, they cannot solve. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After that, János Lázár went so far that it was practically the teachers who were to blame, who stood on the cathedral, who were to blame for everything, and their fault was the deteriorating performance, and the government was to wash its hands. However, the normal reaction from a responsible political leader would have been to exercise self-criticism; if the Minister responsible for the sector had said that the results had deteriorated, we would have to examine what education policy measures we have taken during the last six years under government, where we have failed, whether we are responsible for these results, and if we find these errors, we will give an agreed answer to this profession. That is not what happened, Mr Secretary: you are trying to put responsibility on everyone but on the government itself. If you look at the technical aspects of this, because Zoltán Balog is just a drop in the sea, who is a very important drop in education, but still, if you look at the masses, children who do not have a chance to break out of poverty in Hungary are worth talking about much more. Not only has the results deteriorated, but the OECD has repeatedly stated that it is virtually impossible to break out of poverty in Hungary. The differences so far have increased, and the social background has more than ever determined the chances of a child in school, the knowledge he will gain in the education system. It matters more than ever what it brings from home, and the school not only reduces these differences, but increases them further. The reason for setting up the CLIK was precisely that if we provide adequate funding, more balanced funding, with state reservations, then the differences will decrease. We see that this is not the case: the difference continues to increase, which is now reflected in the PISA test and the OECD survey. While you are trying to scapegoat teachers, teachers, more and more underprivileged children in schools, there are more and more people with virtually hopeless futures. I believe that by reducing the age limit for compulsory education to 16 years and allowing access to public work from the age of 16, you have given me an answer, and this answer acknowledges that you cannot do anything with these children in the education system. They're offering them this: quit the education system when you're 16 because we can't motivate you enough to stay in there by the age of 16, we can't make you understand that learning is the only way to emerge from the breakup, break out and earn a decent living, so, yes, quit, we will allow you to leave the school system, and there's community service that offers you an income that otherwise doesn't provide a livelihood for you and your family. We see that the family background in these children is extremely decisive, and, yes, there are large numbers of children whose family does not provide the right background, does not motivate them to learn. Our conviction is that we could create a real, meaningful chance for them to create boarding schools, Mr. Secretary, by showing them that there would be examples that would encourage them to work and learn. But you reject this proposal, even though there are many international examples, and the success of the boarding schools that have been working voluntarily in Hungary since the 1970s shows that this would be a real solution for them, Mr Secretary of State. But if there is no radical change in attitude and there is no radical change in the professional performance of the government, then the indicators of the education system will continue to deteriorate, and we will push these children into deeper poverty than ever before. You don't want to do that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, What I don't know is exactly what's in Jobbik, there's a text understanding problem, or there's a hearing problem, so it's selective hearing or text understanding. In the case of statements quoted by you, you quote part of the statements, not part of them, so you try to line them up; just as the influence of social differences brings a certain part of the report, not a certain part, it also quotes certain data in relation to public employment, not certain data. Let me make it complete. [[Dóra Dúró:]] Let me explain the rest of the reality. [[Crying out of the opposition benches. - Agnes Kunhalmi: Cancel! There's no need to explain this. You should resign, Mr. Secretary.]] honourable Member, what you are not doing! [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-12-12-20	Why is the crowd buzzing? [[Defiance.]] Please listen patiently to the Secretary of State's reply. [[Dr. László Varga: It takes patience indeed!]] Try to control their emotions at least once, and we'll succeed. [[Dr. László Varga: Not always!]]
u2016-12-12-21	Thank you very much. First of all, I don't think we should underestimate the teachers. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: János Lázár!]] neither the performance of students in Hungary, what you do here in your speeches before the agenda, because if you compare it - there were even fewer representatives here, so I would be happy to repeat - that while we are 31th in proportion to the total national product per person in the OECD countries. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This cannot be explained, Mr Secretary of State, no!]] so the Hungarian education system is stronger than the country's economic background. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: As in Zimbabab.]] In this respect, I believe that we must recognise the performances here, while we can see that the results have deteriorated in two areas, in the third area and in mathematics the results have stopped. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame!]] What you said, Congresswoman, is that the family background largely determines the performance of children in schools, that is true, there are great differences in Hungary, and that is the case. There is no way, honourable Member, that the PISA report would say this only to Hungary, because I think that the OEDC report is surprisingly the same for many people, whether in the case of Israel or in the case of Luxembourg. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I think you should stop. You are the Hungarian Secretary of State!]] This means that other countries are similar...
u2016-12-12-22	I would like to ask Congresswoman Bango to listen with patience and not to yell at me. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There is nothing to listen to!]] This isn't the market, okay? It's not the market. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Worse, whorehouse!]] Act as if you are in the Hungarian Parliament; and I would ask the head of the group that, after you have finished caressing your mobile phone, please order the congresswoman to order her order. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Market Inspector is not like that! Interviews from the opposition's benches.]] The Secretary of State has the floor.
u2016-12-12-23	It seems that our left-wing fellow Members feel at such a joint candidacy meeting that they are starting to speak to each other and do not listen to each other, but I think that, when it comes to the performance of Hungarian students, it is more worthwhile to have a substantive debate about this. As far as public employment figures are concerned, honourable Member, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by 138 thousand in the last year and the number of unemployed has decreased by 77 thousand, while the number of people involved in public employment has decreased by 11 thousand, all of whom have found market jobs. And the interesting change in Jobbik's policy in a few weeks is that while compulsory boarding schools were proposed a few weeks ago, cuteness seems to have extended to this area, now only voluntary colleges are proposed. It's a quick change, but at Jobbik, we're used to it being able to change their attitude in weeks. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Not at Fidesz!]] How much have we spent on education five or six years ago, Congresswoman? 1300 billion forints. How much do we spend next year? 2,000 billion forints. In how many countries does the OECD show that the share of budgetary resources for education is greatly increasing? In very few cases, Hungary showed a 1.2 percent increase in GDP between 2010 and 2015 [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Compared to what?]] This was very necessary because during the period prior to 2010, there were huge withdrawals in the field of education. These students, whose performance has now been measured, how much time have they learned during the previous NAT period, and how much during the new NAT period? It was nearly eight years that were spent in the previous NAT period, and it was just over eight months in the new NAT period. [[11.30]] When we see the results of the new NAT, it will first be the 2018 result. We also did a number of things: Klebelsberg Scholarship was introduced so that high-performance students and university students could choose the teaching field. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Public reservation is a safe background for paying teachers' salaries, which have otherwise been increased by 50 percent, and even by educator II. If you step up, you can give teachers an even greater incentive. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If everything is so good, why is the result so bad?]] The further training will be carried out by universities at last, and not by various suspicious backgrounds. Preschool mandatory from the age of three, free textbook [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] or an enlarged free children's meal is all intended to reduce as much as possible the differences that you are talking about at the age of 15 to the age of 6-7. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Everyone is stupid, only you are smart!]] The person who supported these measures really supported the better performance of Hungarian students. And let's acknowledge what they were able to show a surplus in: in the case of TIMSS results, both in mathematics and in science in both 4th and 8th grade. Indeed, let us continue a dialogue with educators on why, in addition to increasing resources, we have managed to withdraw from what has been done before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-12-12-24	Thank God we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, notary, to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-12-12-25	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Lukács György, Jobbik; György Simonka, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; László Varga, MSZP. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; György Lukács, Jobbik; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; István Apáti, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik, Tamás Pintér, Jobbik.
u2016-12-12-26	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. In derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates that the Parliament is CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. T/13270. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/13270/1 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to derogate from the house rule by 161 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 2:33 p.m. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to amend the agenda for the presentation. The Fidesz Group suggested that CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. T/13270. A consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No 1 will take place on today's sitting, following questions, decision on the draft amendments and final votes will take place on Tuesday's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the motion has been accepted by the visible majority of the House. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the protection of the settlement image in LXXIV of 2016. T/13269 on the amendment of the Act Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. On the basis of the Government's initiative, proposals for amendments should be open until 3 hours after the decision on the exceptional procedure is taken, the joint debate will take place on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda and the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. 100 Members, need to vote in favour of this exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I ask you, do you accept T/13269? Submitted in exceptional proceedings, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 119 votes to 47, with no abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 2:35 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an extraordinary procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/13268 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the exercise of public burdens and the task of public bodies. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. On the basis of the Government's initiative, proposals for amendments should be open until 3 hours after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the joint debate will take place on the second item on tomorrow's sitting and the final vote on the summary amendment proposal will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the T/13268 will be accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 119 votes to 29, with 18 abstentions. Accordingly, amendments can be submitted at 14 hours 37 minutes today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to amend the agenda for these proposals. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 14:00 on the Tuesday meeting of the Parliament. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, It follows that LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity, adopted by the Parliament on 11 October 2016, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Discussion of the legislative committee report and amendment proposal submitted to the law amending law. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/19101/10. Letter from the President of the Republic T/19101/11. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/19101/13. and T/19101/14. Available on the website. [[It's constant noise. Congressman Szaėmos is preparing to leave the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna ask everyone to leave the room quietly and at a rapid rate, if you feel you have nothing more to do in here. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. To some pro-government representatives who are talking in the room:]] We're waiting for you. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: They don't care.]] Thank you very much. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-12-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 December 2016 is the House Rule 78. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act on Electricity, LXXXVI of 2007 discussed: T/11901. The Commission submitted a proposal for amendment and report by 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[11.40]] The amending proposal contains only an important technical clarification regarding the entry into force. Following the agreement agreed at the Paris Climate Summit, Hungary undertook to increase the share of renewable energy sources to 14.8 percent by 2020 with the objectives of EU resource use in 2014-20. The Legislative Committee considered it only appropriate to adopt a technical amendment, essentially without any change in its content, because, in agreement with the Government's findings, it can achieve the objective not only by using wind energy but also by relying on other alternative sources of energy, i.e. the objective of 14.8 per cent of renewable energy production. Here, basically, the government representative drew attention to two things. On the one hand, solar and geothermal energy production is more favourable to Hungary than wind energy production. As stated at the committee meeting, in Hungary's case of wind power plants already installed, we see that their utilisation for existing capacity is only 25%, which in any case justifies that additional power plants should only be built after due consideration. In essence, the government regulation that will be adopted will provide an opportunity to do so, since the number of permits to be issued will always be determined by the government depending on this, as you see the extent to which built-in capacities will be exploited. Please support the adoption of the bill by considering what has been said. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. The minority opinion is presented by Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary stated in the debate of the Legislative Committee that we still consider the withdrawal of the bill acceptable. We do not agree that the government and the majority will continue to tighten up opportunities in the area of alternative renewable energy. Jobbik was clearly in favour of green energy, in favour of renewable energy, which was also explained at the committee meeting. It was not a coincidence that Jobbik also supported Paks, we also counted on it and we believe that this is absolutely necessary for Hungary's energy needs. That's why we don't think it's a good thing that the government uses austerity. We are pleased that President János Áder has returned the bill for consideration, and we are pleased that President János Áder is finally standing up for alternative energy not only at international level, but also in Hungary. I am very sorry that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, Mr Csepreghy, State Secretary, called Jobbik's position political populism, that we spoke in favour of wind energy. I feel that this also applies to the letter of the President of the Republic, as we are here on a platform with the President of the Republic in this area, in the field of the exploitation of green energy. We also agree that with this decision, the majority of the government and Fidesz-KDNP will face the Paris agreement, which Hungary has signed, which would reduce CO2 emissions in Hungary and in all states and reduce CO2 emissions. Obviously, when we talk about wind power plants, we can't even talk about this. Looking at how popular the construction of wind power plants has been in Hungary over the past decade or two, it is important to see that the entrepreneurs have been very happy to participate in this project, since according to the data, a wind power plant can bring a profit of HUF 10 million per year, and this shows that wind power plants are economically useful, while in Hungary the wind continues to be worth this type of energy. The fact that the government wants to bring renewable energy to two levels in Hungary alone, the use of solar power plants, solar panels and other geothermal heat may not be good. In my view, in the same way as solar energy, what is mentioned in the general justification of this bill is that it is temporary, unreliable, that it cannot be calculated precisely when the wind blows, that this can be expressed in the same way for solar power plants. Therefore, Jobbik maintained its position and did not vote for the re-approval of the law, so we agree with the President of the Republic, and we believe that this bill should be withdrawn. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak as rapporteur. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has 10 minutes for this speech and the closing word together, as he is consuming from the 10-minute window, so much less for the closing word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-12-31	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Allow me to respond in substance to the proposals made by the President of the Republic, according to which he summarised his criticism of the law adopted by Parliament in four points. Among these, President of the Republic mentioned that the bill adopted by the Government and Parliament does not facilitate the implementation of the agreements entered into at the Paris Climate Summit, outlined the unjustified administrative burden, debated the opposition to the country's energy strategy and the issue of government regulation and ministerial powers. Here, let me first point out that a responsible government must essentially take into account two aspects: on the one hand, how it can guarantee security of supply for its consumers in the retail and industrial sectors, and, on the other hand, what it must see is how it can do this at the most optimal price in market conditions. The Hungarian energy policy, as mentioned in the majority and minority opinions, has basically the potential of renewable energy, nuclear energy and fossil energy. However, in the case of a country, when we talk about how green energy should be supported as a subject of political public agreement, we must not ignore the natural features of the country and what works well in one country, for example in the northern countries, the use of wind energy, for example, in the case of Hungary, where other environmental and natural conditions are faced. It was already mentioned in the previous debate that only 7 percent of Hungary's territory is capable of installing wind power plants, and wind power plants, which have been built in Hungary in recent years, are clearly - and I would oppose Mr Gyüre here - not optimal under market conditions, since these types of investments were exclusively built when significant state aid could be called upon to create these projects. The income-generating capacity of these projects is also limited, since, apparently, despite dozens of permits for the construction of such power plants when domestic or EU tenders were not available for this purpose, these investments were not built. In any case, it is also a speechable fact that these wind power plants had a total of 330 megawatts built-in in 2015 in Hungary, but the electricity they produced was only 73 megawatts, so it is visible that the installed capacity is very low or that these types of power plants can make up for its efficiency to a very small extent. If you take into account in which type of energy the highest amount was to be spent to ensure the so-called balancing capacity of the Hungarian energy system, 56 percent of the total balancing capacity cost was placed on wind energy, while in other cases it is much lower. [[11.50]] Therefore, the Hungarian government says that we do need to significantly increase the share of renewable energy sources in total energy production, but the Hungarian environmental conditions make it possible to base this on solar energy and geothermal energy. Here I would also like to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the fact that, while in 2010, at the technological level known at the time, by 2020, Hungary was able to realisticly imagine 813 megawatts of renewable capacity, in 2016, we are at the point of putting this number, this capacity between 1330 and 1830 megawatts of energy. So we fully support all or all of our international commitments to the Paris Climate Summit or even the 2014-2020 EU Development Programme, according to which Hungary will increase the share of renewable energy sources from around 7 per cent in 2012 to around 14.8 per cent in 2020. The possibility that the country's energy policy strategy can indeed develop in such a way that it takes account of the country's capabilities and defines the forms that can best and most cost-effectively serve the expansion of green energy in Hungary, I believe that each government has a duty to take it as seriously as possible, and in this respect we believe that wind energy is not the most optimal solution for Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have a time frame of 4 minutes and 55 seconds. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to sign in at the push of a button, because I do not see any sign-in in writing. [[For signal:]] I would like to take the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Secretary of State and fellow members of the Government. Not only are you ignoring your own President of the Republic, but you are humiliating your President of the Republic, which you have the right to do, but it is interesting that the President of the Republic, who has been delegated to the President of the Republic, is not the first time in such an uncomfortable, uncomfortable situation, that he will be forced through Parliament again, practically without a change of letter or with some formal change. And yes, this proposal is about what is in it, and it is about unduly restricting the spread of wind energy. In Hungary - by the way, you wrote down a few years ago in your renewable energy strategy, in your energy concept, which Jobbik also supported - there is still some capacity to build wind energy. I think, if I remember correctly, about 700 megawatts is what the current system can handle without any problems. In comparison, there are 330 now, as the Secretary of State has said. So the domestic system could handle about double the current situation without any problems. Obviously, there is something completely different going on here, and in the meantime the government's priorities have changed, and it no longer believes in wind power, or some other energy strategy is being imposed on you by other interests. This is your job, but this procedure is completely unacceptable to Jobbik. By the way, we did not vote for the bill at first, and we will also vote against it now, and it is not because there are, in fact, positions here that, for example, nuclear energy and green energy cannot and cannot be supported. Our vote doesn't have a slightly different basis. We say that, yes, renewable energies are in place in the domestic system, there is a place for nuclear energy, and that regulation is indeed an important problem and an important issue, but it is not irresolvable. It can also be solved under current conditions. Of course, in the longer term, it would be good for the domestic electricity grid, electricity system management, to adapt to renewable energy with higher built-in capacity, such as solar energy, where regulation is also needed or wind energy capacity. The Secretary of State said that you are thinking more about solar energy and geothermal energy, but at the same time you are hitting solar panels with an environmental product fee, which is not compatible with this principle, there is some contradiction here, and obviously, the record-sized 27 percent VAT does not encourage the spread of these elements, nor does the lack of appropriate high-quality proposals. So once solar energy is better preferred, along with preventing wind energy from spreading, then put it in the other pan of the balance sheet, then take some positive action, which in turn helps solar energy or geothermal energy to spread. Otherwise, the not too ambivalent or not too big commitment they made to the European Union in terms of the share of renewable energy could be achieved or even overachieved, but in its present form, the choice of a source of renewable energy, which in this case is wind energy, and we are creating such unjustified regulation in which we are hindering it... - and in the meantime we say otherwise, or the government says that it is not worth investing in wind energy or building wind wheels in Hungary anyway. Then why do we need this bill? Why is there a legal need to stop it if it's not worth it on the market? Obviously, that's not what this is about. It is no coincidence that no wind power plant has been built in Hungary since 2010. The Fidesz government seems to have declared war on wind energy, even though Hungary could profit from it. I know that it is primarily worth operating with wind energy from countries who manufacture and produce equipment themselves, and that is especially what they benefit from, not from wind energy production itself. In terms of regulatory capacities, we have raised our proposals for solutions here, within the walls of the House, which have yet to be found deaf ears. However, this is no reason not to accept that there is still room to build wind energy capacity in Hungary, there are areas in the country where the right wind is available for this, especially in Kisaland and parts of mountain areas. Interestingly, it's worth it in Austria, a few miles away, and here on this side of the border, it doesn't seem to be worth it. This is an interesting concept, since there are wind farms on the Austrian side of the border, while if we cross the border, it obviously doesn't depend on whether it's worth it or not, as the wind doesn't say that this is Hungary anymore, I'm not blowing so hard here. So if it was worth it in Austria, it would certainly be worth it in Hungary. You have been artificially blocking it for several years now. I say that Hungary's energy security is equally part of the core power plants and renewables should be part of it, and one should not be hindered at the expense of the other. Obviously, they all belong to a healthy energy mix. If, in the longer term, Hungarian households were to obtain electricity at a reduced price and safely, this would include promoting the spread of renewable energy sources, especially wind, sun and geothermal. In contrast to what the Secretary of State has said, at the moment, if the government is thinking of renewable energy, it is generally biomass that gives the highest proportion of renewable energy production in Hungary, which means the conversion of coal power plants to wood-fired power plants and the burning of forests in wood-fired power plants, which we do not necessarily regard as renewable energy. Therefore, Jobbik will not, not surprisingly, support the adoption of the bill sent back by the President of the Republic without any changes. We regard this not only as the humiliation of the President of the Republic on the part of the pro-government factions, but also as a professional community who believes in domestic green energy and renewable energy, who are realistic about the fact that this would be possible in Hungary today, which is hindered by the government. The Jobbik really cannot be said to be biased or blindly pro-green, as we were the ones who voted in favour of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and we were the ones who supported the government's energy mix based on the previous cycle, but it also included the green one, and it seems to be disappearing from it more and more, or it appears only at communication level, and this is a concern about the Paris Convention and other similar climate agreements. At the end, let me note that a few months ago, when there was a debate here in Parliament on the Paris Climate Summit and the Climate Convention, I criticized the President of the Republic in the presence of President János Áder, saying that one of the basic sayings of environmental protection - to think globally, act locally. So far, only the first part has been binding on you. [[12.00]] So he was very good at thinking globally and representing the protection of the environment at international level, but he was always quiet at home when it came to such issues. Now, in order to be consistent, let me commend the President of the Republic for taking his stand in this case and sending this bill back. He probably knew that he was from your ranks in the presidency of the Republic, so it obviously doesn't come as such a big surprise that you're ignoring his proposals and, in a way, showing us where the President of the Republic should be. You can make suggestions, but they will not be taken seriously; anyway, according to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, environmental protection is a left-wing or left-wing thing that we do not agree with at all, and we say precisely that anyone who truly loves and fears his nation and his country will vote for the truly environmentally friendly, thoughtful and renewable energies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek from the Group of the LMP is now taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, I have a moderate enthusiasm for President Áder's greening activity, as he would have had relatively many opportunities to prevent previously environmental-destructive activities or legislative formations that he unfortunately did not do. I must say that I fully agree with the reservations of the President of the Republic on this issue, along with my colleague Lajos Kepli. He's referring to the climate agreement. I quote European Union research, at the moment the lowest carbon emissions of land-based wind power plants are from all power-generating technologies. According to the scientific analysis, the entire life cycle, i.e. from the time we start digging up the hole, we put in this huge concrete that holds this whole thing, up to the point of draining and taking the remainder of it to the waste treatment unit, from 7 grams of CO2 equivalent/kilowatto to global carbon dioxide emissions, which, say, is between 98 and 144 for nuclear power plants in terms of CO2 equivalent/kilowatto. So President Áder is absolutely right, not only does this not help Hungary, but also goes against it, because what we all need to do in terms of the global climate and, therefore, the fertility and hydrographic conservation of Hungary, this measure does not in any way help. Wind power plants have, and may be, a right to exist in Hungary. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, on several occasions you have pointed out that Hungary's natural and environmental characteristics should be taken into account. Well, they don't take into account the potential of wind power. Who invented that sentence? Who wrote it down? I assume that this is not Mr State Secretary's own conviction, but is also based on background material. Who are the experts who have come to this conclusion by analysing spatial information and climatic data? To the best of my knowledge, this is unreal, and obviously I am not merely saying my own opinion, but I am trying to collect two or three university analyses in Hungary. Similarly, the statement that there are opportunities in Northern Europe is not true, and why these are not available in Hungary. In Denmark, the share of wind power generation in total production is constantly increasing, with 12 per cent in 2000 and 42 per cent in 2015. Now, that's what you can say that coastal exposure gives you the opportunity to do that. Yes, but in Germany, where there are also coastal provinces and there are 87 percent wind power, but in the German lowland parts it reaches 62-64 percent, and these are lowland areas and not coastal areas. This is 1-2 percent in our country. This is not because there is a climate difference between the German lowland and the German climate exposure, as in the Carpathian Basin, but it is simply that there is a different government attitude to this area. If I may, Mr Secretary, I would also like to draw attention to one thing. It is not true, nor am I saying that you are lying, but I am saying that you are wrong when you say that 7 percent of Hungary is suitable. This comes from a stupid previous regulation, because previously they said that the turbines work everywhere, so it is the 7 percent area where installation was possible according to the previous regulations. So it was the previous installation practice that made this possible for 7 percent of Hungary's territory, but this does not mean that it could not be used in a significantly larger area. Mr Secretary of State is perfectly aware of this, that the development of all this technology, when it is no longer two-kilowatts, but three-four times the performance, even if it is working partially, can significantly better assist electricity production. With the active participation of wind energy, a complete transition to renewables can be achieved in most countries of the world from a technical point of view. I'm just saying, as a matter of interest, how ambitious we think we are, how proud we can be of this country, the 100% share of renewables that Scotland set by 2020, Costa Rica 2021, Denmark 2025 in heat and power production, Norway 2030, Sweden 2045, and we are taking on small shares for the same years. That's what's unacceptable! With a more ambitious plan for other countries, this can be achieved without further development of nuclear power. If Jobbik, say, connects itself to nuclear energy, which I do not agree with, but if this date can only be achieved with the current time extension, then the transition can be achieved without further improvement. Let me point out one more thing, and this is that, according to the calculation carried out at the Faculty of Economics at Corvinus University, if we compare technologies with life expectancy, the land wind allows for the most favourable improvements, which should not be made public, but a large number of private sectors. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It could be a cooperative sphere. It is therefore desirable to take into account the opinion of the President of the Republic. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-12-12-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member István Józsa of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-12-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction sees its professional opinion in a letter from President of the Republic, as we have already explained in the debate on the law that virtually makes the construction of wind power plants impossible, as the President of the Republic wrote in his letter that this law does not help the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, contrary to the energy strategy adopted by the Parliament in 2011, and introduces unjustified administrative barriers to the use of wind energy. This is extremely regrettable or strange on your part, because in a positive sense it was indicative that Hungary was the first to join the Paris climate agreement, and in words the government, as it is now, expressed its commitment to the expansion of renewable energies in Hungary. If there is such an energy strategy, there is such a government idea, then it is completely incomprehensible that one of the renewable energies is targeted and completely unprofessionally made impossible by legislative means. It seems that there is no professional reason for this, but as if the government wants to give President Áder a little freak in connection with the President of the Republic's term of office to be renewed, that you have a great climate-friendly view of what you're going to do with it. If you allow it, your commitment to climate protection will be undermined, but if you send it back, it will go against the government, so it will in principle reduce your support for the President of the Republic. So it can't be ruled out that this is a political game. If you could take seriously what you said about renewable energy, that it is solar energy and geothermal energy - the English name of which is deep geothermal, therefore deep geothermal - that could be of relevance in Hungary, then it would be appropriate to bring a harmonised bill to Parliament, in which these main renewable energy sources, their support, authorisation and regulation, are treated in a coordinated manner, since the energy control system, also appears together in the case of Mavir. [[12.10]] So if you feel that wind energy is problematic in the electricity system, it could also be a problem to use or turn on solar energy, and depth geothermal is less problematic, because it is practically available without interruption once it has been built. To sum up, the MSZP feels that this attitude is false, that it will be brought back here without change and that it will be professionally unacceptable. We would consider this withdrawal to be correct and we consider it appropriate to refer a renewable energy package to Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-12-12-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is also coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor a minute and a half ago, all in all, I would have waited for someone from the Fidesz Group to justify, apart from the Secretary of State, why they do not wish to accept the terms of the Republic President's transcript. Well, there's still a whole time frame that's still available. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and that is why I asked for the floor, the Secretary of State made the same arguments as he did now, and indeed, I do not like authoritarian arguments, and I would like to refer to them now. In terms of professional arguments, the speakers before me have already said and, in my view, have refuted all the things the Secretary of State has said in his introduction. But let me ask you this question: shouldn't the President of the Republic's transcript still have a meaningful response on the part of the government and the ruling parties. So we heard an explanation, but that's not what it's about. The President of the Republic has made it very clear in the transcript what is unacceptable to him in this law. I think that, from a substantive point of view, it should be possible to disprove that. I didn't hear or feel at the Legislative Committee or now that this had happened. And that is why I said the concept of authoritarian arguments, or that is why I have now involved in the debate, because I believe that if the President of the Republic is, by the way, credible and competent as a politician, as a politician, I say this as an opposition representative about a former politician or politician with fideszism, that is the subject. The President of the Republic has been present on this subject for years, and his competence is recognised from a professional point of view worldwide. Obviously, his colleagues are also competent on this subject, and the President of the Republic did not express the opinion he had sent to Parliament alone, but with the help of his colleagues. I ask you, if, from a political point of view, the Fidesz side, if you like, there is obviously no doubt about good intentions, because it is a fidesz politician in the President of the Republic, if there is also no doubt in his competence whether what he is writing is appropriate, then why are the governing parties not even willing to make it a matter of real and genuine consideration to accept his terms. I believe once again that these are the authoritarian arguments I have expressed, and the professional arguments that my fellow Members have just made, at least raise the suspicion that there is something to look for behind this phenomenon that my fellow Member István Józsa spoke about. Indeed, in a few months' time, we will elect a President of the Republic, and we are very reluctant to see it - of course, this is your inner power game, we would not even want to talk about it - we are saddened to see that these power games are manifesting on a matter as serious as what we have here. I believe that one of the biggest problems for future generations will be sustainable development and climate protection and climate problems. I do not think that this topic should be played. It wouldn't even have to be played if, by the way, it seems to be in line with your power aspects, which, if appropriate, will be for the next few months. Because, by the way, I don't see any other sensible, rational explanation for being so negative about the President of the Republic's opinion. I ask you to think and consider this, my fellow Members, and if this 17 minutes for Fidesz and 8 minutes for the KDNP are still at your disposal, then it would be good if one of you who is a politician would at least speak on this subject. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the remaining timeframes. Yes, Congressman István Józsa of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-41	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to emphasise, as my fellow Members have already said, that a supporting bill should be put in place for the construction of a power plant for renewable energies, and not a limited one. So the biggest problem with this proposal is that a positive objective, climate protection [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] attacks by law restricting its objective. Thank you.
u2016-12-12-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since I do not see any other candidates for this speech, I will now ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Four minutes and 55 seconds, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Allow me to try to respond comprehensively to professional criticisms or opinions. I do not want to take a position on the fact that the opposition has the same idea about everything. I would just like to make a comment to Mr Kepli that President Áder is the President of the Republic of all members of the Hungarian nation, not just the Party of Government, as was the case with all the Presidents of the Republic after the change of regime. The Member spoke about the fact that the Hungarian network system would have nearly 700 megawatts of wind power production capacity against the 330 megawatts currently installed. Here, however, I would like to draw your attention once again to the number that you correctly noted from what you said before, that only 73 megawatts of installed capacity could be delivered. So it is okay that Jobbik is asking for this to be doubled, and it must be said only then that the additional investments, investments in network development, investments in additional capacity could be covered by how and from what. So show me the budget place where the Member would take you to finance these areas. And that you do not think that the plan that the government has undertaken to increase its total capacity by 14,8 per cent by 2020 for green energy from the previous 7 per cent is ambitious enough, I would like to note that we are doing more than double the capacity so far. So I think that this is really important, given the Hungarian realities, given the realities of the Hungarian energy policy. I would like to say, in any case, that the criticism of nuclear energy is a matter of faith. Here are the professional positions that support or accept nuclear energy, and there are those that reject it, even if they see for themselves that the alternative modes of energy production, in terms of residential and industrial consumption, result in cost pluses that have a very significant impact on the competitiveness of a country. Therefore, I cannot deal with these issues in substance, and I would add that the proposed bill for adoption includes the need for the government to review periodically, depending on technological developments, and to review the production possibilities and capabilities for wind energy production. And if technological features or technological opportunities are available in the coming years that justify this, then this debate must be reopened and these technological tools should be allowed to appear in Hungary as well. Mr Józsa mentioned international examples, but here I would like to add that, for the international examples that you have involved, Germany, France or beyond, let us say, Denmark or the British, additional costs are realised within the energy system, for example, the result of which is that in Germany, a German household pays three times as much for electricity as Hungarian households. I think it is important to note here that the current Hungarian government believes it is important that Hungary should be among the cheapest countries in this regard, taking into account the European price level, and that this factor that determines competitiveness or competitive advantage in domestic care, as well as industrial care, should be known to us in the future. [[12.20]] Congressman Bárándy has suggested that the Government does not respond substantially to what the President of the Republic has said. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is happening, because the President of the Republic begins his criticism of the fact that this provision does not facilitate the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. However, the Paris climate agreement is not only about creating renewable capacity in wind power, but also about other features that the government prefers both through regulatory instruments and through development tools. You mentioned the energy strategy, which is mentioned by the President of the Republic, which envisages 750 megawatts of wind power up to 2020. However, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that if the Parliament adopts this law, it is the government's duty to periodically override with technological progress whether this strict regulation is suitable for an optimal energy strategy in Hungary. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. The debate on the legislative report and the proposal for an amendment to the Act amending certain health and health insurance laws, adopted by the Parliament on 22 November 2016, is now taking place. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12729/10, letter from the President of the Republic T/12729/19. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/12729/13 and T/12729/14. can be found on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and subsequently the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these, with the majority opinion being delivered in 8 minutes and the minority opinion in a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-45	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 December 2016 is the House Rule 78. T/12729 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and an amendment report with 25 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. The amendment contained the TAB's own motion with a slight oral change. The purpose of the amendment is, in the light of the comments made by the President of the Republic, to include in the Act on the marketing of medicinal products, in relation to the control of pharmacies, such an inspection of the extent and weight, as is the case with regard to the General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service of 2004 CXL. It is also provided for in law, can only be carried out in the case of a prosecutor's approval, and the inviolability of communication between the client and the lawyer is recorded. Furthermore, the amending proposal clarifies that the administrative body is only entitled to examine whether the conditions for the establishment and operation of the public pharmacy are met by the company. With these changes, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy to present the minority opinion. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, who presented the majority opinion, spoke very briefly about what had happened at the committee meeting. There was indeed a major and major debate about this, not necessarily on the substance of the provisions, but on the particular reason why the President of the Republic returned this law for consideration. In the first place, the criticism of the drafters of the minority position was that although it was positive that the President of the Republic did not sign this proposal, he returned it for reasons from which he could not have been, he should have gone to the Constitutional Court instead. The President of the Republic complained that some of the provisions of the Fundamental Law did not comply with the adopted bill, as it violates guarantee rules that make it unconstitutional in the event of its publication. And if that is the case - and we have repeatedly opposed this in János Áder's proceedings, we must look on the parliamentary website at how many times he turned to the Constitutional Court and how many times he sent it back - so, even in cases where he should send the bill to the Constitutional Court, he will send it back to Parliament, practically creating a more favourable condition for the ruling parties. After all, the Parliament can accept it again in a quick procedure, and it does not have to wait for the procedure of the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it does not have to suffer the loss of prestige of the government that the legislation it presents is unconstitutional, and it is clear from the sun that it has proved to be, and the President of the Republic has seen this. But it seems that the ruling parties have also seen it, because they have done at least enough to move in the direction proposed by the President of the Republic, because the contested proceedings are now subject to a prosecutor's license. It is true that the President of the Republic spoke specifically - and not by accident - about a judicial licence, and the President of the Republic, as I consider it, was very right to take the view that these proceedings could be conducted if the judge authorised them. It is no coincidence, moreover, that, in proceedings of a similar nature, a judicial licence is required in the Criminal Procedure Act. I would also add in brackets that, in my view, in these proceedings, the authority which would be entitled to act under the rule of law will not act or act under the law. I believe that at least the health authorities, the police or other law enforcement agencies should be required to assist and co-operate, and I repeat that these procedures should be subject to judicial authorisation. The law is improving so much that at least now it will demand the prosecutor's permission, but my point of view, as well as the minority opinion, is not enough. Therefore, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, there was a proposal - I specifically formulated it - to bring these measures to a judicial procedure instead of to the prosecution. Unfortunately, the majority in favour of the government did not accept it as a result of opposition from the government, although from the vote - I looked at who voted for it - it appeared that not all pro-government representatives rejected this proposal; I am afraid that I am not far from the truth that the Fidesz chairman of the committee is also in this area. I therefore believe that the Parliament will make a mistake if it accepts this proposal in this form. We wouldn't be far from a good solution, we really just need to tie these procedures to a judicial license in the same way as the President's position. That is why, in my speech here, I would like to ask the representative of the government present to consider this and even with a joint motion to remedy this damage. Of course, I am not talking about the substantive professional and health policy considerations contained in the proposal, just the problem that caused the President of the Republic to return this legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[12.30]]
u2016-12-12-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs whether he wishes to speak now or if he wants to turn the ten-minute time frame to the closing word. [[For signal:]] Yes, thank you very much. Then you'll have a ten-minute window to close. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First of the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Sombor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-12-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are debating the amendment of a law that contains many other important elements. However, interestingly, there has been a debate about a part of it that is worth talking about. After all, the fact that he has legal implications for constitutionality and there are debates on this issue has been and can be seen during the first debate. I am personally convinced that, while respecting Mr President of the Republic's opinion and his comments, this amendment has been made, which, according to some of the lawyers, is an appropriate solution, that this matter will probably still have a lot to deal with. After all, the law is trying to address a problem that is currently one of the greatest threats to health safety, patient safety: the marketing of counterfeit medicines, medicines of illegal origin. Just to point out the scale of the problem, I'm trying to shed some light on this, that any means that the authorities can intervene as quickly and as efficiently as possible can save people's lives. It doesn't matter at which interval, at which stage you can prevent further tragedies. The use of illegal medicines and counterfeit medicines by the population is a very serious problem in the world, in Europe and in Hungary. On an annual basis, this represents a deal of about 130 billion dollars for counterfeit medicines distributors. According to some official statements, this is 13 percent of the total turnover of medicinal products. It is also significant in the European Union, it is close to 5 percent and it is an increasingly emerging illegal industry. So any measures that we try to control this will be helpful in any way. The first measure, however, was when it was recognised that they were essentially trying to find customers for these medicines via internet sites, and Parliament was quite right to accept the legal place that the pharmaceutical authority could block these sites. There are currently 30 cases in progress. Here too, for all legal reasons, unfortunately, we left a loophole because only the pharmaceutical authority can block it temporarily. Actually, it wasn't right, but it was still so that the authorities wouldn't have too much authority on this matter. However, I think that if, with this new legislation, the pharmaceutical authority is able to control the registration process, the production process and wholesale distribution, we are now able to control retail distribution, we are taking an important step to ensure the safety of patients. In addition, let us not forget that we are faced with a danger that is increasing, increasing, and is becoming an increasing problem. Therefore, it is not excluded that this matter will still have to be dealt with by Parliament. We support this amendment from the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This is a strange debate, because I remember the basic debate or the detailed debate. There we talked about the fact that there are actually so many technical amendments to this salad law that we should not hold a production meeting and not discuss them, but debate the health situation in general. It also had an interesting outcome. Last week, you voted against our proposal that further wage increases and additional money could have been spent on health care. In addition, it could have been put faith in a parliamentary resolution, and then you could have turned it into a programme. You didn't take this opportunity, you rejected that opportunity last week. That was also discussed in this debate. It would also be good if Mr Secretary of State responded to that debate, not only at the end of what my fellow Member Barondy said. I mean, I think we all agree on that, as Gábor Zombor said, that, of course, there should be no false medicines, no drugs with bad substances on the market, and the black economy must, of course, be pushed back as long as possible in this respect. You can agree with that, it's a good goal to set. But the tools that you have assigned to this are, in fact, only conflicting with constitutional fundamental rights. And that's not just anyone, it's the President of the Republic. This isn't about turning a pandour into a robber, and everyone has the same toolbox, the criminal, the law enforcement and the authorities. Everyone agrees that the Authority should act as quickly and as efficiently as possible, and should be placed in favour of it, precisely so that the authorities cannot be abused, because there is no limit to the power, that there must, of course, be a valid reason for this and that the requirement of proportionality must be met. I believe that, of course, the authority has tasks in this case. We need to find new methods. We need to train people, we need to develop an organization, we need to be smarter than those who do the black business, and this is how we can act as quickly and as efficiently as possible against them, so that, of course, we can reduce the black market. This is how it works in a rule of law, not without the government seeing another way, there is no other way for the proposer to undermine constitutional rights. I think the argument system we've been listening to is wrong. Of course, all kinds of crimes committed at that moment, and against whom they commit, the placing on the market of any counterfeit goods, the placing on the market of any illegal goods, could not only be a matter of medicines, but drugs, anything could be pursued in the fastest and most efficient way possible. But the authority is the authority to comply with the rules. And a criminal is a criminal because he doesn't follow the rules. And that's what the President of the Republic draws attention to most of the time. I think that what my fellow Member Bárándy said would be a good solution rather than the explaining part that we have heard from the government side that, well, it must be stopped. Of course it has to be stopped, but to do so, it requires an organizational system, a system of tools, and, of course, the rules must be properly applied. I think that should be in everyone's mind when you make a decision. We believe that we can go in a better direction on this issue and recommend that you take this advice. Once again, I must express my regret that the Parliamentary resolution proposal has been voted out last week. We think it would have been better for health care if they could have spent more money both on healing work and on the wages of those living there. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[12.40]]
u2016-12-12-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since I do not see a candidate for a debate, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Member Gergely Bárándy wishes to speak out of the MSZP Group against the remaining timeframe. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am somewhat disappointed that the Secretary of State does not answer these questions in the debate, and once again I say that there is a general provocation by the opposition only to take part in the debate, because a debate is a debate when we have an argument, not if one party tells its argument system, and the other one reveals it in the closing word. But it's just a formal part of the deal. In this debate, however, it would be particularly worthwhile to do so, because I would be very curious, simply on the basis of professional arguments, why the government did not accept the judicial authorisation procedure, which the President of the Republic proposed and would otherwise be constitutional in all respects, but bound to the prosecution procedure. I would simply be interested in what these professional considerations are, and it would be good if we could discuss this with each other in the debate, and not, let us say, in the closing word, there would be so much opportunity for the Member to use the genre of Parliament to yell at a few sentences. What I would like to add is that they believe us, and when we argue in favour of warranty rights, we do not consider the delay to be saving, nor do we propose it. Because today, it's not the 19th. We live in the century, fellow Members. Today, in modern conditions, the court's license can be obtained in seconds. I do not think that such procedures, when, let's say, false medicines should be seized, occur in such a mass in Hungary that the judge is not able to take care of this out of turn. A supplementary rule of such a regulation, such as, say, the judge is obligated to act out of order, can be added; it is possible to determine the time when. In parentheses, I'm telling you, they're usually on call judges, so that can be done at any time. The other is that this authorisation can be requested by electronic means. We have recently listened to the report by the President of the Court of Justice, who is extremely proud of how e-affection is being introduced and of the infrastructure developments in information technology in the courts. These innovations could be used calmly, and a judicial license can be obtained extremely quickly, no slower than a prosecutor's license. Here again, the judge acts in one person, acting in some proceedings. The investigating judge always does, and this license wouldn't be any slower than the prosecutor's license, but it would be a guarantee of everything. That is why I am confused about why this cannot be introduced and why an out-of-court procedure could not be attached to this provision. Otherwise, no disadvantage, no loss of time would be suffered by the measure compared to being subject to a prosecutor's license. Indeed, Mr Sombor argued in this regard how important it is for these procedures to be carried out quickly and out of line. I agree, Congressman, perfectly with you, because it is in the social interest that, say, poor quality or counterfeit medicines should not be placed on the market, that is an extremely strong social interest. I'm just saying that here, warranty rights and this strong social interest can be brought into line quite calmly. Here we are not opposed to the dilemma that efficiency or warranty rights should prevail, and to which, in this delicate balance, we should tip the balance. Because here it is available in an extremely simple way. That is why I do not understand the government's opposition in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you if anyone else would like to speak in this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I am now asking Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He does not wish to respond to what was said in the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions will be taken on this day. It follows now that the legislative committee's report and the debate on the amendment proposal submitted to the Act on the free transfer of certain state and municipal property, adopted on 22 November 2016 by the Parliament, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12734/11, letter from the President of the Republic T/12734/12. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/12734/14 and T/12734/15. Also available on the website. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. The Legislative Committee indicated only a majority opinion, the rapporteur of which was Mr László Salacz, so the Member is free to use the 15 minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2016-12-12-55	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 8 December 2016, the House Rule 78. In its proceedings pursuant to paragraphs 3 (a) to 4), the members discussed the T/12734. A bill on the free transfer of certain state and municipal property, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic and formulated their position on it. In the light of the comments made by the President of the Republic, the Committee shall adopt the House Rule 78. The Committee has decided to submit an amendment pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, thus considering the provisions of the President of the Republic's transcription, it is in the Committee's view that it is necessary to re-accept the law with unchanged content. The President of the Republic explained in his reasoning that the legislative purpose of the legislation was to take Erzsébet tér as a public park into operation as a public task. The President of the Republic complained that the owner's municipality had not been consulted during the preparation of the bill. At the committee meeting, the Secretary of State gave a reassuring response to the fact that a large part of the space is already state-owned. The State will also assume its financial commitment to take over the remaining area. I would also like to inform you that, in view of the expected date of adoption and publication of the bill and its entry into force, an amendment to the date of delivery by 31 December will ensure that the date of transfer is set at the date of publication and entry into force of the law, in accordance with the requirement of legal certainty. I urge you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr András Aradszki, whether he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. András Aradski rises to speak.]] Yes, he does. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that a total of 10 minutes, including the closing, are available. With what you're using now, there'll be so much less time to say the closing word in 10 minutes. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-12-12-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The law on national assets defines as a fundamental law the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets. It provides for the exclusive ownership and exclusive economic activity of the State and the local government, as well as the limitations and conditions for the disposal of national assets of high national importance. According to the law, national property spaces and parks are the exclusive property of the State and local authorities. However, the Act on National Property also states that if a law determines the task of the local government as the task of another local government or as a state task, or as the task of a state authority, the transfer of the local government or state property directly serving and necessary to the recipient of the task may take place free of charge by transfer of the registration value. [[12.50]] The purpose of this bill is therefore to ensure that the public parks and other public areas listed in the proposal are, in addition to the transfer of the task of developing and maintaining public parks and other public areas, owned and owned directly by the public and municipal authorities, and the properties with such functions, are owned free of charge by the municipalities and by the State. The bill provides for the transfer of mandatory tasks related to the real estate under the laws on the local governments of Hungary, the laws on national assets and state assets, as well as the free transfer of 35 state-owned real estate necessary for the performance of the public service to 22 local authorities. In addition, and among these, the bill also provides for the public ownership of four other properties belonging to Erzsébet tér, Budapest V. district, connected with the maintenance of the public park, owned by the Municipality of Budapest. I consider it important to point out that, with the asset relief provided for in the draft law, the property concerned remains exclusively owned within the scope of national assets. On the basis of the concept of national assets, the exclusive state and municipal property elements may not be alienated except for the narrow exceptions contained in the national property law. The right of use, the right of use, the right of access or the right of service established for the benefit of bodies governed by a special law in the public interest, or for the same reason, and the right of access to the land for the benefit of the local government, shall not be charged, guaranteed or shared. Between 2006 and 2016, 653 municipalities received 1117 state-owned properties free of charge for most of their municipal operations and development tasks. In the last eight years, the state has made real estate worth HUF 44.5 billion available free of charge to municipalities and has owned it. In the same period 18 public benefit organizations and 18 churches received 22-22 state-owned properties for free. Dear Parliament, On 22 November 2016, the Parliament already voted in favour of the bill before you, which was sent back to this House under the constitutional law of the President of the Republic for consideration. The President of the Republic objected to the fact that Erzsébet tér, as a public park, was operating as a public service task without the decision of the owner municipality, and also complained that the prior consultation with the Municipality of Budapest on the transfer of property forming part of Erzsébet tér had failed. The government's position on this issue is clear. According to this, the legal basis for the transfer of ownership is the provision of the Law on National Property, according to which, if the law further defines the task of local government as a public task, the ownership of the property directly serving the purpose and necessary for it will be transferred free of charge. On the basis of this rule, the separate decision of the owner local government concerning the transfer of assets in question is not a legal procedure. Pursuant to the cited provision of the National Property Act, provision should be made in law for the transfer of tasks and, in this context, for the transfer of ownership of property, to which this bill complies. In closing the debate on the bill, I must once again thank the Legislative Committee for its active involvement and the adoption of the amendment before us, which contains technical amendments for the decision or return of the President of the Republic, is, of course, justified and expected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have a time frame of 4 minutes and 18 seconds to say the closing word. I am now asking my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. The debate is on a time-frame and the timeframe is included in the billboard. I would like to take the floor first from the MSZP Group to MEP Dezső, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Anyone who has accompanied this law through this House and has carefully studied the relevant material, including what the President of the Republic has sent to Parliament, will somehow end up in such a split state of consciousness. I'm trying to shed some light on why. On the one hand, the first part of the bill provides state-owned properties to municipalities in 35 cases in order to allow the operation of public parks in the given cities and settlements to take place in a normal manner, inter alia because in these municipalities certain areas were owned by the State in a smaller or larger proportion of their ownership in the area of the public park, and this prevented these public parks from operating in a normal way. I think that if you think about it this way, you can conclude that this is a perfectly normal, understandable and justified process. Indeed, the areas operated by a given municipality should be owned by the municipality. I think that the development of the public park in this case is also much simpler. It's a perfectly understandable and justified thing to do. At the same time, when you continue to read the law, you can find a very interesting conclusion, namely, that there is an area where you are trying to put the exact reverse of it in the law. In particular, in Budapest, the Erzsébet Square, which is owned by a local government, would be owned by the state. At first, you don't understand why. If the state is not able to operate these parks in 35 different areas of the country in a really normal way, since it does not have an organisation for this or any personal conditions, then what is the reason why the space in the middle of the capital should be taken into state ownership? In fact, reading through the reasoning, we did not get an answer. There is only one sentence written that defines the operation of public parks as a public task. And in the other 35 cases? In the country, from Abaliget to Békéscsaba or from Debrecen to Zalaegerszeg, isn't that right? And here in the capital, this is the argument that the state wants to run it here? Or does the state define the operation of the public park as a task? At the same time, the proposal itself contradicts itself, since it would like to take this into the ownership of the State, but does not want to operate this area as a public park, because it would immediately add it to the management of the V. district municipality and even provide resources to ensure that it is state-owned but still managed by the municipality. Why isn't it good where it's local government property? After all, it is the municipality who really knows people's real ideas about the operation of such a public park. Yet you do the opposite, and there is no reason. No one understands why this is happening. Moreover, they do so in a very specific procedural form, as opposed to the municipal law relating to municipalities, which requires that, in such a case, when municipal property is acquired into state property, the relevant body of representatives, in this case, the Metropolitan Assembly, should be consulted in this case. The Metropolitan Assembly did not discuss this. It's not that they're taking this into state property. This area is being taken away. And think about how humiliating this whole story is for a mayor or a Metropolitan Assembly like this. In fact, if we are to assume what you have suggested as a justification that you want to formulate a state task in this area, then we can start to be nervous that in the coming period, we do not think that it is a public task, because in this case, anyone who has a hotel or a restaurant can be nervous; not to mention those who, let us say, keep animals. Everyone's gonna be nervous that they're gonna take this away from him because the state has decided it's a state task. But there is such an example in the history of the Hungarian state, I can say a lot. The vast majority of such decisions took place during the Rákosi period and during that period. [[13.00]] So it's not state ownership, it's taking away, it's taking away. Do you know what they say in the common language? Einstanding. According to the interpreter's manual, this means that the stronger right to illegally seize someone's property means einstanding. Based on my childhood experiences, and I trust that the Secretary of State had the same experience, reading the boys of Pál Street, this word appeared for the first time in my life, einstanding. There, too, was a pretty disgusting story, and it's still kind of disgusting, as I see it. The one who wrote this novel is called Ferenc Molnár, and he has a very instructive sentence about einstanding. He says about einstanding:. This ugly German word means that he declares what he takes and who dares to resist will use violence against him. So the einstand is also a declaration of war. At the same time, violence, fisting, and pirate control are short but inconvenient. This was written by Ferenc Molnár, it is still correct today, it is still true today. You declared war on Budapest, declared war on the people living here. You know, if they don't get a normal answer to why they're trying to take this area away from the capital, why they're trying to take it away from them, they're gonna figure it out or they're gonna start to wonder why. Now was the time to talk to the citizens in my constituency, because the President of the Republic sent them back to Parliament. It was enough time for me to talk to the voters and tell them what they think the state is doing. You know what they say? The one who wants to make jokes says it's because they're building a small train. [[Defiance.]] Someone thought it might be a stadium. Whoever took this question a little more seriously, and we have to think about it, says that instead of the Ferris wheel, which is private there, it may be a pleasant benefit for someone who operates it, they want to build an even bigger one; it's one of the versions. The other version is they're building a casino, a Vajna casino. The third version is that a hotel, since there is already someone who owns a part of the operation of that space, is called Rachel. And then some people started to combine, and he says there's gonna be a casino, and there's gonna be a hotel. I suppose everyone will be monitoring the need to take this space into state property. The lesson for me and I think for others is that today, in Hungary, there is no one and nothing is safe, today you can einstand anything from anyone.
u2016-12-12-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, the notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am very, very sorry that you are not here, Mr Secretary of State Major, who put this bill before this House at the time and participated in the debate, even because I wanted to confront it with a sentence. This is how it is said, in the debate, that he answered my question in the context of the consultation:. As regards Vörösmarty Square, the capital has maintained its demand, and therefore, for the sake of agreement, this proposal deals only with Erzsébet Square. Before that, the Secretary of State said that Vörösmarty Square had also come up in this sense, that the state also wished to bring it to itself, but because there was no agreement on it, but there was agreement on Elizabeth Square, only the State would take up the space. At the meeting of the TAB, my colleagues directly read this part of the minutes as to what the answer would be, and you were very elegant or less elegant, but you avoided answering this story, what the Secretary General Major was referring to at the time. Or maybe he wasn't telling the truth? Which is even more serious, because my other question about Erzsébet Square would have been what the creation of this community space really meant, because it was a rather puke fate of this whole square from the formation of the Pit, which would have actually been the National Theatre, would have been a place and so on. Anyway, now there's some consensus about the use of space, and it's also got a kind of architectural image, although it's strange that a negative form is practically this structure, which contains this club space. However, this kind of wording has led to the conclusion that there may be some kind of further building, but I am reassured by the Secretary of State that this is not the case; it is only such a literary turn, so that the creation of community space, this Erzsébet Square itself, is created in a civilised state, and many can use it. After all, I have to say, I doubt that, too. So I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to clarify to me, on the basis of this section of the minutes, what you were thinking of, when you said this sentence, or what you could not think of, or to make a clear statement regarding the creation of a community space, even for the protocol, whether there will be any further reconstruction or not. However, on the whole, I must tell you that I do not know what you really mean about the Presidential function of the Republic, and what it is good for in particular that the President of the Republic can exercise his veto rights, so he can say that he does not want to sign a bill and send it back to the House for consideration. President Áder has been elected by you two thirds, out of the debate, and he was a fidesz Member, so he's your man, but you're the one who's making fun of him by not taking these signals seriously. I'll tell you honestly, with this, of course, they're making the entire Presidential institution an ugly subject of being treated so unfairly by his initiatives. For me, too, I'll tell you honestly, it's pointless, incomprehensible, and it's extremely humiliating to even assist. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he has 4 minutes and 18 seconds to respond to what has been said in this debate. [[Dr. András Aradski's signal:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go. András Aradski, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2016-12-12-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the point of my fellow Member, Mr Dezső, who is a believer, I can say that this complex does not have a uniform ownership structure at the moment, a large part of which is public property, and the other part is municipal property. It is clear that, in this respect, its management and the performance of the tasks required for it are easier to carry out in a single ownership structure than without it, this may be one of the reasons. The other reason is, of course, that there is a commitment here. This commitment is also justified in the sense that it is easier to develop this in a single ownership structure. You are very much involved in the theme of this einstandation, but I would like to say to you that, in my memory, it was in the '50s that it was not ascribed to assets of state and national wealth, but to assets that private people, families and members of the nation had accumulated for hundreds of years, for which they had worked, they were taken away by such very hard-working, ÁVH lads, whose successors sit in the bench behind me; not everyone, I sign, but they are among them. [[Impressive Dezső: You have a few too!]] So it would have been a bit difficult to talk about einstanding in this, and it would have been really justified to have heard from Congressman Barándy, even on the issue of making it clear that there is a fundamental law, rather than a public ownership of private property. [[Dr. László Varga: That's the stupidest thing you've ever said.]] We see the effects of its provisions in the bill, the essence of which is that an asset is transferred from municipal property to state property which cannot be disposed of, burdened or divided. [[13.10]] It follows that the rumors you put in the mouth of the people on the Újpest Market, I assume, are completely unfounded. You, as a prepared representative, should have explained to these people that this is out of the question, because this land that is owned by the state can no longer be alienated or burdened. I believe that the assumptions you have made here sound very well, and that it shows very well the attitude of an MSZP politician on issues in which they have already had practice, but at that time they did not take government-owned land under the law on national assets, but simply einstantised private property. So that was a very bad suggestion. Allow me, Congressman. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: the law does not impose any obligation to negotiate. In this respect, as I said earlier, the law does not even require the consent of the municipality. It is clear that there are levels of negotiation that, after there is no legal regulation, the parties may conduct without otherwise being fixed, and that one conciliation party may consider this to be a negotiation, and the other subsequently says that this was not really a negotiation. Indeed, it is true that the President of the Republic has made an important observation that these consultations may be conducted much more precisely and more regulated for the future, but nevertheless the justification and content of the bill are in line with the legislation in force, and I therefore propose that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. Ladies and gentlemen, The immediate questions will be discussed at 2 p.m. I'll take a break. I'll meet you here in the Chamber at 2 p.m. Thank you for your great presence. [[Pause: 13-12-14.04President: Dr. János LatorcaiCookies: József Attila Móring and István Szávay]]
u2016-12-12-65	Dear Parliament, We'll continue our work. We'll be right back in time for immediate questioning. Mr.Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Without a word, Prime Minister, does the Mayor of Fidesz Szolnok tolerate the abuse of old ladies acting for their community in a subparic style? You're gonna try to save the unsavory by lying all over the place? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has the floor, please.
u2016-12-12-66	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Obviously, I don't have to tell the story from point to point, because I'm sure you've heard it, but if you haven't, I'd like to tell you that a few weeks ago in Szolnok, there was a very nasty incident at the city assembly, when the mayor named old ladies who stood up for their rights, for the rights of a community, which I don't want to say, but I think he made a huge mistake in this, both humanly and as politicians, and he seems unwilling to admit. That's why we were waiting for someone from the Fidesz faction or the Fidesz leadership to come forward in this case and at least tell us what his position is about this case. John Lázár said something about this, that, having a good fidesz, he would tell him as a private person, but he would certainly protect him; and I think that the indefensible should not be protected very much. The problem with this, Prime Minister, is that if a person from his childhood - let's say he is good for the multigenerational co-existence that I have lived in - does not learn the respect of the elderly, then it will not later. If, on the other hand, this is part of a government policy, and they're only taking pretend measures in the elderly case, and then their group leader sees the entire elderly society as an idiot with a sentence that the reason you can't have the voucher delivered by post is because then you'd think that every month it's a policy that doesn't prove that you don't think you'll ever get old. What I'm wondering, Prime Minister, is what advice or how you've come about the village at the time, what you need to do about the elderly, and what your vision is, and if you're willing to at least, let's say, about your mayor, with which you obviously have authority, you have the opportunity to take some action, because he still doesn't seem to think it's serious. Plus, the big problem was that even after he lied, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which he must have been exposed to again. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-12-12-67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-68	Dear fellow Member, Although it's unusual for you to ask me such biographical questions, I think I'd rather thank you for asking my opinion. I would ask everyone, including you, all Hungarian Members of Parliament and everyone in the country in general, to give respect to the elderly, to give respect to the ladies and, in particular, to give respect to the elderly. The other thing I can answer to you is that I think it's right that if someone makes a mistake, they should settle it according to the rules of chivalry. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-69	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-70	Thank you. You know, Prime Minister, we used to put the great-grandmother in front of the kitchen, and every morning she told us that the roof was leaked, and we didn't take it seriously. Once the house got wet, and then we started taking what he said seriously, really seriously. And I think you guys still don't want to be serious about this case. I hope that I, and you and many of us here, will come to a long and peaceful old age, but don't be surprised, Prime Minister, if this perception, which we say your mayor represents, goes on and there won't be an appropriate counter-option, it will result in one day, when you speak, and for the third time tell you to help you sometime, when you will need it, and you will receive a similar answer, don't be surprised at this, Prime Minister. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-12-12-71	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-72	If you've changed to an unfriendly tone, then allow me to follow you, and recall that I don't remember you protesting when your Prime Minister in your Autumn gave the whole country a nasty word. I don't even remember him ever talking about the insulting obscenity of the then Prime Minister. I must say, therefore, that I think you are a Pharisee, eye-turning, and hypocritical position here. Thank you for your attention. [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!- Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-73	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what has changed in Fidesz's migration policy? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona, Mr President has the floor.
u2016-12-12-74	Mr. Prime Minister, With your actions after the invalid referendum, you've proven that you're not interested in the country's real security, you're interested in the goods. If you had been interested in the real security of the country and the amendment of the basic law, you would have long since abolished the residency bond business, which is an economically unreasonable, corrupt and security-politically life-threatening construction. If he had done this, if it hadn't been important to you, Parliament would have voted to amend the basic law. But you didn't. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He didn't do it, and not only didn't do it, Prime Minister, he opened another office in Iraq. Oh, my God. In Iraq, in the immediate vicinity of ISIS terrorists, you, Prime Minister, have opened another residency bond office, saying that if ISIS terrorists have hot feet, they should come in this direction. And in this situation, Prime Minister, you are desperately clinging to the Constitutional Court's resolution, with such desperation as in the 2000 Olympics, Eric the Eel at the edge of the pool; throwing your hat to the sky, while if someone reads the grounds of the Constitutional Court, the special opinions, it will not come out that the amendment of the Constitution, the amendment of the basic law, is not necessary, but the opposite, it is necessary. It doesn't matter what the Constitutional Court can refer to, what Fundamental Law is at its disposal. Prime Minister, in this situation, you are doing three things: your own proposal to amend the basic law is being voted down by your own representatives in the Committee on Justice. What happened? The other: because of your greed, Prime Minister, for not being able to give up the business of settlement bonds, you are now going to Brussels as a failed politician. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] With an invalid referendum and an unsuccessful amendment to the basic law in his pocket. And, Prime Minister, for which I am confronting you, for which I say this, you personally are directing against me and against my party an unprecedented smear campaign. I ask you, Prime Minister, is this money that important? Is it that important? Is this really where it came from? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-76	I remind ourselves that the question sounds like what has changed in Fidesz's migration policy. The short answer sounds like nothing. The railway station is standing still; the train on which you are sitting is moving, Congressman. We continue to regard the prevention of illegal immigration as a national matter, as opposed to you. In our view, you have derailed a key issue for our future as a political and tactical issue. [[14.10]] Our appreciation is that you have been unable to rise above your own power aspirations. You lied to yourself and deceived the Hungarian people. However, we will not follow you in this, we will remain on the side of the Hungarian people, and if necessary, we will protect Hungary from immigration against you, too, if necessary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-77	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'll give you the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-78	Prime Minister, I see that with this settlement bond business, I've hit on your chicken eye. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're coming to that point.]] Because that press campaign and that press hysteria you've been running against us, it's really beneath all fantasies. According to some press reports, you are trying to explain the intensity of this in-house by saying that I, in private, threatened you, and your family. Prime Minister, look me in the eye. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. - Viktor Orbán looks Gábor Vona in the eye and stands in his eyes.]] I didn't threaten you, and I certainly didn't threaten you with your family, Prime Minister, because that's not my style. That's your style. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] And don't send me your press hyenas, don't text me Terry Black, don't try to clean me out of political life with Arpi, the good working man, but if you still have the courage, then after ten years, you'll finally stand up for a public political debate, a live debate you're running away from, Prime Minister. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Calm down!]] He keeps running away from the debate! I'm asking you, Prime Minister, are you still able to fight fair and square, or are you left with nothing but filth? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-79	A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-80	Well, I'm glad you're in the mood for Christmas... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the matter of threats, all I'd like to say is that it takes a man! I'd like to return to your question... [[Dr. István Apáti: Says the man who escapes with an armored BMW when shooting his own. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-12-12-81	Congressman Abbot!
u2016-12-12-82	In April this year, you called those who do not vote for the anti-quota Fundamental Law a traitor. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's right!]] However, when it was possible to vote, Jobbik did not vote for it. You made a serious mistake, you personally failed the exam. Now they're making new suggestions, if you'd like, for my re-examination. No extra exams. I cannot accept your application. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-83	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The word belongs to Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Today, one of the world's greatest challenges is poverty, the division of societies into more and more poor and less rich. Today, 65 of the richest people in the world have as much wealth as 3.5 billion people. The trend is that the gap is increasing between countries and within countries. Unfortunately, the same process is taking place in Hungary today. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: That is not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] Instead of working to reduce the distance between the rich and the poor and between the multinationals and small and medium-sized enterprises, the government is doing exactly the opposite, increasing the gap. You say you're on people's side, but basically you always support the rich and the capital, and the little ones only get the crumbs. The start of this was the introduction of a single-key personal income tax, which resulted in 500 billion forints in the pockets of the highest earners and 134 billion forints in the pockets of the lowest 70 percent. Now this is spookily repeated in terms of corporate income tax when it is made single-key. Large companies whose profits exceed HUF 500 million reduce their taxes by 10 percent and the small ones by only 1 percent. What is it if it is not support for multinationals and the creation of tax havens in Hungary? In addition, the government proposes the wrong instruments, such as the 15% increase in the minimum wage. The 15% minimum wage increase and the 5% reduction in the employer's contribution increase the wage cost of the minimum wage by HUF 15 000 overall. Small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to manage this, they will go bankrupt in bulk. Prime Minister, I'm asking if we shouldn't change our course and really for low-income people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and do it for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-12-12-85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-86	I fear that this debate is outside the framework of logical thinking. What else should we do for low incomes if we do not raise the minimum wage? What else should we do if we want to increase the minimum wage for skilled workers than to exercise them significantly, by 25 percent higher? And if you don't think it's good for those who are looking for minimum wage, then for whom? Instead of you, not the government, there is no misunderstanding, but you would recognise people and their efforts, and you would say that it is actually a serious achievement from the employees of Hungary, perhaps even from your employers, that we can get to a state, a government on the one hand, employers on the other hand, workers on the third side of the wage increase of 15 percent and 25 percent, and that is a good news, instead, you, not exactly traceable to me, are trying to tell us that this is wrong. LMP says it's bad. All I can say is that I'm shocked that the LMP thinks the 15 and 25 percent minimum wage increase is wrong. I can't give you a better answer, we grind in separate mills. I think the minimum wage increase is good, you think it's bad. Unfortunately, a sensible economic policy debate is excluded on this basis. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-87	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a moment's time for the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-88	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you asked what should have been done. I can say very simply that the LMP proposal should have been accepted. [[Defiance in the ranks of government couples. The president's ringing the bell.]] We should have introduced multi-key personal income tax, and not your employers, but your employee contributions should have been reduced. If you accepted the LMP proposal, it means that not only would the wages of minimum wage earners have increased, but that all those working above the minimum wage could bring more money home. For those who receive double average wages, so around 500 thousand forints, they would have taken more than 30 thousand forints net. On your recommendation, only the minimum wage wages have risen, not anyone else's. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-89	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-90	The hopeless struggle must not be given up, so I will try. First of all, the minimum wage increase is good in itself. The second statement you made that this is not related to further wage increases is virtually non-existent at the level of everyday experience. We have learned in the last thirty years, twenty-some years in Hungary that when the minimum wage increases, it is a bit late, but also higher than the general wage level. It's a connection like one or two is two is four. Once again, on that basis, we cannot argue with each other. But I understand why this is so: because what you're saying is that LMP wants a tax increase. And we're the government of tax cuts, so we can't even grind at a mill. [[14.20]] But maybe three pieces of data, if you'll take it from me. Over the past six years, the number of children eating free meals has increased from 92 thousand to 318 thousand. In contrast to 2010, 735 thousand children today receive free textbooks, and today 680 thousand more people work in Hungary than in 2010. There is one thing we can do: congratulate Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Horváth, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Let us finally see the matter of Kishantos, or who should be saved from whom? It's an address. Mr István Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Let's be clear about Kishantos' case, or who is to be saved from who? For years now, we have been listening to the opposition shouts from both the LMP and the MSZP and Jobbik that we have destroyed the country's only eco-economy. I've always wondered if either of you could tell us another working eco-economy, or if you're protecting the environment so much because the case in Kishantos is so much for sale. As long as it can be communicated as such an attack, it is a very good material for the opposition. There were many questions, but unfortunately none of them ever listened to the answer, because we already know that all that matters is the act, not the truth. If they had listened to or read the answers, they wouldn't be in an awkward situation right now. Last week, the Constitutional Court took a decision on the matter, and on this occasion the questions were decided for the benefit of the Hungarian State. Similar decisions have been made in all the lawsuits so far. I don't know who or what he expected this time. The eco-economy was farming on borrowed land for which it forgot to pay, and at the end it was surprised that someone else won the land lease, someone who paid the rent. Forgive me for the simple wording, but I always strive to make my fellow opposition Members understand what has happened. Dear colleagues, they cried out enthusiastically for a court decision in which the intention was, but not to know, what. By the way, all due respect to the busy judges of the Metropolitan Tribunal who wrote and typed nine pages of a warrant in 15 minutes. However, the Constitutional Court did not fall for this cry and made a decision. I very much hope that we can finally close the matter, because the decision of the Constitutional Court makes the situation clear. So I ask you, Minister: what has the Constitutional Court decided, what is the significance of this, and whether the case will finally end, whether the mud throwing of the opposition can end? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Moore and applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-12-12-93	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-12-12-94	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I am pleased that you welcome the triumph of justice and justice with such a loud welcome. I consider this to be a compliment, because on the part of the government, on the part of the FM, we have always said that we have acted in full compliance with the laws and laws in the case of the National Land Fund Kishantos and other matters, in other lands. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Three Fidesz Constitutional Judges!]] Honourable Congressman, I hope that you will repeat with the same volume that the position of the FM, the position of the NFA, has indeed won before the Constitutional Court. His last card was played by the team in Kishantos, the party center in Kishantos [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It was not only a bio-economy, but also the centre of a vibrant party. In relation to the exploitation of land, the Constitutional Court concluded that it was in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, so that the public land lease application system established after 2010 was fully legal. [[Gábor István Bellozó: This is the real shame!]] This application system is for farmers to land, in the spirit of which we have acted, and we will continue to do so in the future. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Until you are expelled!]] Dear Parliament, This decision also proved that those who tried and tried to attack and try to attack the Hungarian state on all possible forums in the case of lands in Kishantos were wrong. It was also expected that opposition parties, which have also shown themselves in loudness, now object to the professionalism of the Constitutional Court, to the task of the Constitutional Court, to turn to Brussels, as well as the Greenpeace organisation, but we stand before it. As I said, the Hungarian State uses the state's land assets in accordance with the law in this case as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-95	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-96	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Minister, thank you very much for your correct answer. I am pleased that, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the land affairs in Kishantos can now be concluded, and I am also pleased that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that even for the opposition it is not happy that the land laws after 2010 are clearly legitimate in the interests of people living in the countryside. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They were in the interests of family farmers. I can only encourage Minister, as the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has already done, to support rural farmers and, in addition to so-called Hungarian political disruptors, not to forget the elimination of Diplomacy in Brussels, so that the Hungarian land can become the property of the Hungarian people, and this cannot be ignored by foreign decision-makers in Brussels. Congratulations, Minister. Keep up the good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-12-12-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr. President. I think we've all been able to see the opposition's flagrant anti-conservatory manifestations. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They question the rule of law, object to the fact that the Hungarian farmers are getting land, that the government is doing everything in its power to rent the state land or to own it. It's not surprising. Within the walls of this House, it has been revealed several times that Hungarian farmers, Hungarian farmers, can only count on Fidesz-KDNP. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, That will be the case in the future. The Hungarian countryside can count on us, Hungarian farmers can count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-99	Thank you very much. Vice-President István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: the situation on the BME. Why? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Mr Vice-President points out that he accepts Mr Bence Rétvári as a reply. István Hiller, Vice President. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-12-12-100	Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Let's try the impossible and talk business. I would like to say, Mr State Secretary, that the Budapest University of Technology is one of the most prestigious higher education institutions in the country, an institution with a tradition that, in a small Croatian village, Nikola Tesla dreamed of learning in Budapest once and being a student of this university and then becoming one of the world's most important explorers. The thing is, there are other news coming out of the University of Technology, angry statements, exclusion, protesting actions of hundreds of students and Senate resolutions. The Senate, Rector and Dean of the Budapest University of Technology are protesting, Mr. Secretary of State, to rip out one of their arms, the Faculty of Economic and Social Sciences from the organic bond of the university, and to another university, probably to the Eötvös Loránd University, where there is already some such training. [[14.30]] In spite of the Senate decision, on 5 December the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State of your Ministry, announced that they would initiate the transfer of this arm. What I would like to ask you is, if the professors, the deans, the rector stands by the university to remain united, then why is it necessary to contrast with knowledge, as opposed to the university leadership, the Ministry and its State Secretary decide to rip it up after all. You can do that, but why would you do that? Answer me, please.
u2016-12-12-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-12-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Firstly, I am pleased that on the day before the last session, the Socialist Party is trying to make professional contributions at this session. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the primary aspect of the Ministry, as well as of the government, was obviously the focus of the students here, so that they could have the most ideal training conditions, whether in economics training or in engineering training in other faculties. This is why we consider the decision of universities to be a priority, and we have attempted, because this is a longer case, which has been going on for several weeks, for several months, so that the university itself tries to set up a working group, to launch an internal consultation that will enable these problems to be resolved, so that we can find a solution within the university. This process started, and as a result, the Faculty Council of Economics met, to be more precise: it held a vote, and 20 of the 28 members with voting rights signed, 20 agreed that there should be a reform of the Faculty of Economics. The initiative therefore comes not from a government part, but from a rather unanimous vote by the faculty council. From this point on, it is clear that the Higher Education Act is 20. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 (1) shall enter into force. From now on, the two Senates must decide whether the Senate of the University of Technology or the Senate of ELTE want to take this opportunity, whether they want to change the structure of these two universities from 2017 onwards. If the senates make such a decision, we will obviously consider whether or not we will make this decision as a maintainer. But I think that if, step by step here, from the lower decision-making forums of the university to the top decision-making forums, a position is formed, and then these decisions are taken, which have been made in the economics faculty, in the most affected place, in a rather large proportion, then they will make the maintenance decision. So far, we have tried to keep our distance and encourage universities to work in-house solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-104	Then let's do it again, because the figure is that that particular paragraph and section of the Higher Education Act you have created says that the maintainer has the right to take this step. But you're not waiting for Senate decisions, you're telling us what to do. As we speak here, the Senate of ELTE is planning a meeting today, and you speak in a declarative manner. However, the Senate of the Budapest University of Technology has already held its meeting and said no. Now, from these two things, however I put it together, there's no way it's gonna come out. So if I add the two sexes together, it's not the oldest techniques to say yes. Denial of denial might be, yes, but here is confirmation of denial, so I am forced to deny that you have given me the right answer. So I have to say, unfortunately, you're wrong. Change the decision. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, One of the proposals we made was when Secretary Palkovic asked the Rector of BME, János Józsa, to examine the situation and to make a proposal for action on how this can be resolved. That's all the decisions the wallet's made so far, that's all the decisions the maintenance's made. We've waited for the faculty's position, we've waited for the two Senate positions, and then the government is in a position to decide anything. We hope that the leading academics here can make a decision on this issue as well. We hope that the two will point in the same direction, and then it will be easier for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: with the help of terrorists, are national capital and civil Hungary built? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-108	Mr. Prime Minister, We have talked several times about Gaith Pharaon's case here in this House, the Saudi billionaire wanted by the FBI and Interpol on suspicion of bank fraud, complaints, abetting, inciting and terrorist financing. This person has many investments here in Hungary. In recent years, he has acquired numerous monuments through the companies he has named himself, with the help of stromones, in the register of companies, various castles in Army, Hőgyeszegen, and here in Budapest, with the assistance of your son-in-law, he has moved to the former Postabank headquarters and to your neighborhood, Cinege Street, also after the purchase of a castle-like building, after establishing a joint venture with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This was followed by a very confusing communication between the government, which revealed little or conflicting statements as to how and how this good man got here, Hungary, professor, whether he has fingerprints or not, and what identity he has. That was a long fight. However, the Ministry of the Interior has been able to clarify this, because with Sándor Pintér's signature, you have identified this good man. This Pharaon is the Pharaon wanted by the FBI, and it also turned out that he first arrived here in Hungary with a visa, and then with a visa after which this good man was granted a residence permit at the Immigration Office, which is a good chance that he still exists. [[Károly Kontrat: None.]] The question now is, if this is the current state, do you think that Gaith Pharaon's business is a national security risk? And what do we do now, Prime Minister? Do you want to build a national, fidesz capital class by throwing national security into the shit and building a nomenclature, and national security doesn't matter anymore? I look forward to your reply, Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-109	Thank you very much. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-110	I hear the National Security Committee has discussed this issue in the presence of the Secret Service leaders. Unfortunately, he wasn't present, so it's gonna be hard to keep track of the case. In any case, I can say that the gentleman in question is not in Hungary. And even though I don't think interpellations could be the subject of a list of people around my private apartment, I can tell you for sure that's where no one's moved in, which is what you're talking about. That's fake news. There's no one there by that name, and there's no one there. That particular house you're talking about has been empty for years. I'm sorry to bore the House with this. And those who live next door to me don't look like any Arab billionaires. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I think there must be some mistake. In any case, as you have said, you are asking this question for many times, so I'm sure it will not surprise you if I answer the same question. The government examined the activities of the person in question in Hungary, and we concluded that it complies with Hungarian law and does not pose a national security risk to Hungary. If, of course, you're asking whether the Americans who usually provide you with information mean something, it's a more difficult question, it's worth thinking about. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-111	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-112	Thank you. Mr President, It is very interesting that Prime Minister already connects Jobbik to everyone here, and the United States of America would be providing information on this issue to Jobbik. I have some bad news, Prime Minister. If you look at this whole case, you can see that it is possible to come to the conclusion that I have listed here from public data. We're talking about a man who's not hiding. He created dozens of businesses under the name Pharaon, which buy historic buildings, including those in your neighborhood. Here is Secretary of State who can prove that his boss, Sándor Pintér, wrote the letter that I hold in my hand, in which the property next to you is also classified as his property. The fact that he lives there or doesn't live there is obviously another question. Prime Minister! You have long argued here that you are fighting against migrants and against immigration. It would be good if not only against the poor, but also against the billionaires who finance terrorism, and not to build the Fidesz capital nomenclature. Face it and be ashamed of yourself. [[14.40]]
u2016-12-12-113	A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-114	Of course, I still think it is an exciting question how it is possible that if someone has been wanted for decades by the entire U.S. secret service, they will never succeed, no matter what the reason for it; and why they are sharing information about this with Jobbik, this is also an interesting question, but we will not get an answer to that. I would like to point out that there is a change in foreign policy in America, and that a different policy will be announced. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Unfortunately, nothing changes here, Prime Minister.]] I'm asking the congressman to look for a new farmer. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-115	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of KDNP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What measures are expected in the field of culture? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The Congresswoman points out that she accepts Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, and therefore Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, as a reply. [[Dr. László Szakács: You will be cornered, Mr. Secretary of State, with cross questions!]] Here you go.
u2016-12-12-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As the year closes, there is an increasing mention here in this House of next year's wages, wage increases, the situation in various sectors, progress and opportunities so far. As Hungary's economy has finally re-established in recent years, and budgetary management has created the opportunity for a comprehensive wage arrangement, we can finally talk about the workers of culture, who have been unable to help in recent years. There are more than 20,000 people who work daily in small settlements, villages, cities and the capital in local government, civil and religious institutions, and this can be seen as a huge intellectual value. I think it cannot be emphasized enough that this government wants to lead the preservation of cultural and ecclesiastical values, so it has already made huge infrastructural improvements in recent years, some 500 libraries and cultural houses have been renewed, and in the capital, the Pest Vigadó, the Castle Garden Bazaar, the Liszt Academy, the Erkel Theatre, and I could tell you more about the renovations and improvements it has made. Workers in these institutions deserve to finally increase their salary, increase their security. As a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I am particularly pleased that we can finally improve the quality of life of workers. That is why I am asking to what extent the wages of workers in the cultural sector will rise next year; whether the government is planning a one-off correction, or whether they may expect further wage increases; and what measures the government is planning in the field of culture. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-117	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-12-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, This year, next year, not only will tax reductions be characteristic in Hungary, but also wage increases. Nearly 400 thousand people who work in different public services, welfare and social areas will notice a noticeable increase in wages when they look at bank statements, their changes year after year. Among the more than 400 thousand people there are 97 thousand health workers, 93,000 social workers, 14,000 higher education teachers, 170,000 teachers, and besides them, more than 20,000 people who work in cultural institutions, 7300 of whom are central public budget bodies, and almost 13 thousand in local governments. Here we can talk about community workers, public collection workers, employees of art institutions. For them, from 1 January 2017, the average salary increase will be 15 per cent, the average wage increase. This means that a person with a secondary education has a higher education of approximately HUF 14 400, while on average a higher education of HUF 29 900, but it is also possible that if a person has more time, he has a higher education, he may have the highest salary increase of nearly HUF 55,000. The government spends 5.4 billion forints on this, just as it spends much more money on culture than it does this year's budget. Together with this HUF 5.4 billion increase in wages, HUF 66 billion is the surplus of the cultural sector next year. In addition, the employees here, as I said, will also benefit from the tax savings provided by the 15 percent reduced personal income tax. This is also a total savings of HUF 120 billion for families. This also has a positive impact on consumption, as consumption has increased by 8 per cent in one year, with less tax being deducted by the State, and so much higher wages are paid by public employers, among other things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-120	Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is developing and performing better in an economic sense, and this development, this better performance, even in an invisible way, but they contribute to the development of the cultural sector, the museums, the archives, the staff of libraries, who have saved values for centuries and passed on the culture we owe to Hungary today; this is also their merit. Therefore, I am pleased to hear that the government will also improve their standard of living by raising wages, and I hope that this one-off wage increase will not be a one-off, but will also be honoured in the future, thanks to the government's care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-121	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-122	Thank you very much, and I think we can thank all those involved in this work, and this has been the result of a long series of negotiations, with which this sectoral bonus was born. Similar allowances have already been created in 2014 and in the last year in the social field, where a sectoral wage supplement was introduced and a wage supplement has been introduced. For the fourth year now, the salaries of teachers are increasing year after year, every September 1st, and in health care we are already in a four-year pay-up program, since the salaries of doctors and nurses have increased from 1 September this year, with 107,000 forints for doctors, 26,5 percent for nurses, and this will continue to grow in the coming years. It is on the basis of this, and it can be said that this will be permanent, Madam honourable Member, because in socialist times it was fashionable that, if ever a wage increase was given, it was given only on credit, and therefore it was then taken away double of the people; this is due to the strengthening of Hungary and the strengthening of the economy, which is why it is long-term and can surely be expected by all those who receive it now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, There's a lot to ask, a lot to explain. I thought I was going to ask you a simple question, because last time I asked you a relatively simple question, you didn't understand, but now it's a simpler question. I'd like to ask you if Lőrinc Mészáros, mayor of Upstairs, is related to you. So once again, are you related to Mayor Lőrinc Mészáros? Thank you.
u2016-12-12-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-126	I'm not sure I got it right, but if I understand correctly, I don't. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-127	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-128	Thank you very much, we're clear on that. Surprised about three things. For one thing, because my informant said he did, but he could be wrong. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] The other one, of course, is this possible. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] that in six years, a gasman standing on the brink of destruction became the 31st richest man, that would be in addition, but that's not all. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: A relative is the one you meet, we already know that!]] You, on the other hand, keep your dog Narciss in one of those areas. [[Moore, interruptions.]] Sixty dollars in a luxury monkey hired by this gasman for 15 million dollars a year. I'm a vet. I've seen a guy give his dog to a relative because he can't hold it, but I've never seen him give it to a stranger. We saw them throwing away billion-dollar public procurements to strangers, but putting their dog there, I'm surprised. Thank you. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz ranks. István Szilárd Németh: Oh, my God! Lajos Kósa intervenes.]]
u2016-12-12-129	Mr President, I believe that this is a question concerning the private sector that is certainly not worthy of an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor for a moment, if you'd like to respond. [[14.50]]
u2016-12-12-130	Once in a while, the House Committee could discuss whether there is some limit to what we are talking about here. Now I see that there is no one, so I have to deal with it. There are several truths in the allegations. I have a dog, his name is Narcissus, and he's in an area my father owns. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-131	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Kósa: That wasn't enough! What about the kinship of the daffodils? They say he was seen with Hadházy's dog. Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what does the Government do for people with disabilities who have changed working skills? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as responding. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai has the floor. [[It's constant, it's loud.]] I ask this House to move past the dog. [[Defiance.]] and try to make it possible for both the immediate question and the answer to be spoken.
u2016-12-12-132	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask for information on an important issue involving more than 100,000 people. It was World Disability Day on 3 December, and it is worth making an account. More than 600 thousand in Hungary [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] our disabled countryman lives, people with musculoskeletal, sensory disabilities or even intellectual disabilities. Dear Parliament, I think that one of the main aims of every Hungarian person is to be able to take a job if they want to, so that they can get paid to help themselves and their families to thrive. For people with disabilities, work needs to be stepped up, solidarity is very important. I see that there are good, common results in this area, for example, the support of interest organisations is constantly increasing, unlike the time when the left led the country. This year, more than 4,000 of our countrymen with disabilities have been given a very favourable vacation opportunity in the Erzsébet programme, with more than 30,000 people in total being able to make use of this program. More than 2,500 of our countrymen were given the opportunity to take a car with significant public support and discounts, and this obviously also helps to get to work. The rehabilitation card is also an important step forward, and it also helps the location of the disabled. In 2010, 45 thousand of our countrymen were working, 55,000 were able to work in 2014, and 80,000 of our countrymen could work in 2016. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is what other means would you like to use to help people with disabilities to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-12-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-12-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our goal is to allow people with changed working abilities to live a full life. Who has the physical ability to do at least part of the work in full life, then the state adds what it can do, precisely so that their life is complete, and their standard of living is better, and they are obviously able to spend their everyday lives the way they want, in a more useful way. In 2013, the revised support and accreditation system was very helpful to all these people. From this point on, we have introduced new rules on this matter. There's more details to this. It separates transit and long-term subsidies, but in any case the result, I think, is striking how well the work figures have been improved here, and then I will explain what the tools have been used to achieve these goals. When I look at people receiving rehabilitation care, they have the highest employment rate, 51 percent. Now more people can get a job than they can. It's a huge rise. The figures were also referred to by the congressman. Those who receive disability care also have a 21 percent share of those who are present in the labour market. Overall, this means that an overall 31 percent employment rate has now been developed with other beneficiaries, which is much higher than in previous years - from 40,000 to 80,000 people here, too, the Member has also referred to - now, fortunately, thanks to this support system and the increasing subsidies from year to year, as the amount of per capita subsidies will also increase by 15 percent in the coming year, i.e. this year. Competition is now taking place between different companies in terms of the employment of those affected. It is not the people with changed job skills who need to earn a job, but the jobs they earn are directly disabled. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] persons. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-12-135	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-136	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I'm glad, because I see that you have the idea of taking into account the interests of people with disabilities. I am also pleased to see an exemplary attitude on the part of Fidesz, as we have included people with disabilities at all levels of decision-making, because our fellow Member with disabilities works both in the European Parliament and in the Hungarian Parliament and in the government. I ask the government to do everything possible in the future, even in the coming time, to make it possible for our fellow countrymen to work as easily as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-12-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-12-138	Thank you very much. Among these measures, I think it is extremely important that every year since 2013 around HUF 34 billion is available. This will support 30,500 people. Next year, the amount of support will increase from HUF 1 million to HUF 120 thousand per person to HUF 1 million to HUF 288 thousand per person. In recent years, various development projects have been carried out, with a one-off grant of HUF 2.6 and HUF 1 billion being transferred in 2014 and 2015. Out of the TÁMOP project we spent 13,7 billion HUF on this project, we were able to involve 12,000 people, 8600 people got jobs from it, and 2600 people were trained. In the future, in an EFOP project, we will try to help 10 000 of the people with changed job skills out of 10+2 billion forints. We hope that this will be given to more people, which was a dream before. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to have a job and to do a full-fledged job. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-12-139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how much will be stolen from the framework for the feeding of children this year? It's an address. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I must turn to you now, because everyone in Parliament already knows Bence Rétvári's systematic answers. Despite the new holiday catering system, many do not have access to the rightful care, even if the law requires it. [[Intruder from Fidesz: You're a liar!]] According to the data you surveyed, 208 thousand children in Hungary should receive compulsory meals on holiday. Now, before Christmas, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are going to have a winter break again, and we can see from the data that you have forgotten about 68,000 children in need. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We don't forget anyone!]] Then we saw that in 2014 and 2015 between the Christmas holidays and the New Year, which remained in the government decree for children's meals, in 2014 HUF 2.6 billion, in 2015 HUF 3.7 billion, was taken nicely and stolen from the children, and was given to stadium construction, electric operation, Hódmezővásárhely for municipal operation, and to Alcsút can for municipal operation. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch!]] I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if there is child hunger and child poverty in Hungary, our children are not worth enough to receive this amount every year. Do we have to steal it from these children every year now - we see it in the process? And now they can't even abide by the law to provide food to the 208 thousand children to whom the law applies. I would like to ask you not to do this this year, that it will be held between the two festivals, and that this amount will be transferred to all kinds of stadium construction and municipal support. I look forward to your reply, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-141	I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[15.00]]
u2016-12-12-142	Dear fellow Member, I can't give you a better answer than what Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári has already given you. [[Dr. László Kács: That's a problem.]] So whoever needs it gets it. Now that you have used one or two harsh terms here, I am obliged to remind you of the simple fact that in 2010, even under your government, the budget was planned to feed children for HUF 32 billion. In contrast, there are HUF 72.5 billion in the current budget. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Local governments added the rest...]] That means he was 32, now he's 72. I wouldn't call that a decline. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-143	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, the congresswoman has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Income poverty was 14.1 percent in 2010 and 14.4 percent in 2015. The income poverty rate for people over 65 is 4.9 per cent in 2010 and 6.8 per cent in 2015. Employment poverty rate is 6.2 per cent in 2010 and 9.6% in 2015. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 are now growing up in poverty in Hungary. [[János Lázár: The 2016! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Data 10!]] Prime Minister! What other data should I list to show that this amount cannot be stolen from children? ! [[Grumble and sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Take note, what you're planning for the budget, give it to me. If you have to move to Buda Castle, stadiums, mini-rails and everything, then you should also have a meal for your children and give it to me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, among them: Time!]] To what was planned for that year!
u2016-12-12-145	The Prime Minister is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-146	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I repeat: 32 billion forints were spent on feeding children during your government, and now we are spending 72.5 billion forints on this. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: There are many children! The president's ringing the bell.]] Your words drew the picture here, as if poverty had increased in Hungary since 2010. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Yes, that's right! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Data KSH data, Prime Minister!]] There's no man in this country to believe that. There is no man in this country, except, of course, the members of the Socialist Party, who would seriously believe that, while no one denies that there is still a problem in this country, poverty has grown since 2010. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] I believe it's not just the facts [[The president's ringing the bell.]] not only the sociological facts contradict everything [[Márius Révész: Look at the KSH data! Dr. László Kács: Buda looks different!]] It's also public opinion. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The sky is purple! The sky is purple!]] Once again, the Hungarian government is happy to accept the criticism that we are not moving fast enough, but [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: What kind of genre is this?]] We cannot accept the false claim that poverty has increased in recent years, because the reality is contrary. We don't expect any thanks. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You won't get any!]] because, in our view, this is not due to the Hungarian government, but primarily to the Hungarian people who took advantage of the opportunity created by the Hungarian government. [[Dr. László Kács: Come to us! They're not gonna kiss your hand...]] When you deny the country's development, because our country is developing, you're not attacking the government, you're hurting people. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We are developing backwards.]] And as far as stealing is concerned, I can tell you that the money was stolen in your time, so... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame on you, Prime Minister.]] The kids didn't have any. They won't steal it now, so we'll get twice as much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Even now! Applause and applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-147	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I ask the Member and the ladies and gentlemen of the House to remain calm, and I will give Mr János Volner the opportunity to ask his immediate question. Dear Parliament, Can I have your attention, please? [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The Prime Minister is lying!]] Mr. János Volner, leader of the Jobbik faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why doesn't the government do everything possible to raise the wages of the working Hungarian people? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader has the floor, please. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-12-12-148	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, You recently asked a fellow Member what else the government could do to raise the minimum wage in relation to wage increases. Prime Minister! On the one hand, the fact that, together with the increase in the minimum wage, the tax burden on entrepreneurs will increase, so the government will raise the minimum wage again in such a way that it will create an additional burden for entrepreneurs, but the budget does not spend a great deal on raising wages for Hungarian people at the moment, but it will shift particularly large profits to large companies and banks. What am I thinking, Prime Minister? The amount of the bank tax decreased last year, and now it is falling further, from HUF 144 billion to HUF 79 billion, with a decrease of HUF 65 billion. The government cancels the HUF 6.3 billion credit institution allowance, although the banking system generated HUF 416 billion in the first 9 months. Prime Minister! Compared to the 2011 level, the upper tax rate is currently less than half as high as the bank tax. You didn't split taxes on working Hungarians, they didn't get the biggest tax benefits, they were the commercial banks. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether you are planning to take other steps in this regard, because I think it is a clear mistake that you will give the most profitable, wealthiest companies in Hungary a tax reduction of between 140 and 170 billion forints and will give ten billion more to the banking system, while the banking system is alive and well. Anyone who generates profits above HUF 400 billion in the first 9 months of the year is hardly in need of the government's assistance with various tax policy measures. I would have used this money, Prime Minister, to reduce taxes and contributions for working Hungarians, but we must admit that you always support the rich. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-12-149	I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-12-12-150	I can't follow every bump that goes from minimum wage to business to bank tax, but it's definitely my fault. All I can tell you about the bank tax is that the bank tax in Hungary is the highest in Europe today. As far as the minimum wage agreement is concerned, I understand that you are flogging the government, but I'm not sure it's right, because it's an agreement. This was not ordered by the government, but by trade unions, i.e. workers, employers, with the government, concluded an agreement, which they reached with each other. We have not only accepted this agreement but also welcomed it because we think it is a good agreement. But to say that the content of this agreement is a government decision is not a reality after it is an agreement. Real earnings have increased by 15 percent since 2012; hospital nurses' wages increase by 65 percent on average by 2019; the basic wages of specialists and hospital pharmacists are increased by 207 thousand forints this year and 2017 - not by that, but by 207 thousand forints. Residents' basic wages will rise by HUF 50,000 from next November. Last year's 30 percent increase in military and police wages will be 5 percent this year and 5-5 percent in 2017-2018. The salary of county government officials will increase as of January 1. The teacher's pay-raise program is up to his fifth year. Their wages increased by 50 percent on average between 2013 and 2017. Next year's wage rise will be 3.5 percent. This also affects higher-level daycare workers. Ladies and Gentlemen, I could go on for a long time. I can say in summary that wage increases are continuing: in 2017, the salaries of police officers, soldiers, teachers, nurses, specialists, higher education, social, cultural workers and county government officials are also increasing. That's all I had. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-151	Thank you very much. We have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-12-12-152	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'd like to make sure Jobbik supports all wage increases. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] I do not agree that you are raising the minimum wage by making this a tax revenue surplus for the government, and paying this tax revenue surplus to Hungarian businesses. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, that you give the Hungarian working people the money that you gave to the richest companies in Hungary, and what you have provided to the banking system on the basis of the facts mentioned above. Wages in Hungary are falling apart in a European comparison. It was not a pay gap, it was proven that the Hungarian wage level was not a pay gap, but that the Hungarian wage level was broken down, compared to the Western European level, and in particular to the level of other Eastern European countries. So what I am asking, Prime Minister, is not to help the richest companies and not the banks with these tax hundreds of billions, but to give the Hungarian people this amount in the form of tax and contribution reductions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2016-12-12-153	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2016-12-12-154	I must admit that a minute is not enough to help the Group leader understand the context in which competitive wages can be paid by competitive companies. After this doesn't last a minute, so I'm not gonna try that now. I would just like to point out that in Hungary taxes are falling, wages are rising, unemployment is below 5%, we will achieve full employment. I repeat: whoever attacks this and takes it away does not attack the government, does not dispute the work of the government, but attacks and disputes the joint performance of the Hungarian people. That's what Jobbik does; we can't do anything else, we live together with this jittery dissatisfaction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-155	Thank you, Prime Minister. The hour of immediate questioning is over. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Check to see if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows that LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity, adopted by the Parliament on 11 October 2016, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending Law and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/19101/10. Letter from the President of the Republic sent back for consideration T/19101/11. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/19101/13. and T/19101/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/19101/13. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 126 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. a law amending the law, which has not been published, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 127 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending certain health and health insurance laws adopted on 22 November 2016 by the Parliament and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12729/10. Letter from the President of the Republic sent back for consideration T/12729/11. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/12729/13. and T/12729/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12729/13. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 132 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the unproclaimed law on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 149 votes to 29, with five abstentions. It follows that the decision to propose a legislative amendment to the Act on the free transfer of certain state and municipal property, adopted by the Parliament on 22 November 2016, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12734/11. Letter from the President of the Republic sent back for consideration T/12734/12. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/12734/14. and T/12734/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12734/14. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 128 votes to 34, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the law on the free transfer of certain state-owned and municipal property, which has not been published, with the amendments that have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 128 votes in favour, 34 against and 22 abstentions. The T/13086 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13086. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[15.20]] It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information T/13087. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13087. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 174 votes in favour, without voting against, with five abstentions. The T/13088 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information is being published. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13088. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 186 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman, the T/13089 on the announcement of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Anti-Taxation in the field of Income Tax. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13089. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 185 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows the T/13090 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur is Mr T/13309/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct translation error, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/13090 will accept it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill, with 186 votes in favour, without a vote against and without abstention. It follows that T/12923 on the amendment of certain energy laws for price regulation purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12923/6. T/12923/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/12923/6 of the Fidesz Group. A separate vote was initiated on points 7, 9 and 10 of the proposed amendment. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up the bill. The EESC recommends a technical addition to the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the amendment point requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 151 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. In point 10 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall adopt Article 13 of the bill. The EESC recommends that the provisions of Section 4 be deleted. The adoption of this proposal excludes point 9 of the summarised amendment. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 10 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment point by 1 vote in favour, 185 against and 1 abstention. In point 9 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall adopt Article 13 of the bill. The Commission proposes to amend the legal provisions of §2 of the EC Treaty. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 9 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 153 votes in favour, 29 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12923/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 128 votes to 31, with 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12923. the provision of amended legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provision of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 152 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstention. [[15.30]] We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12923. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 150 votes in favour, 30 against and 5 abstentions. The 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land for the production of vine propagating material follows a series of steps. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/12930. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12930/7. T/12930/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 and 2, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12930/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 184 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12930/7. Point 3 of its summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 3 of the summary amendment by 184 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12930/9. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12930/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 183 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12930/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, T/13159 on the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be discussed by the Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/13159/8. T/13159/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13159/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 2 against and 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/13159 will accept it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote. Noise.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 146 votes in favour, 7 against and 27 abstentions. [[Several congressmen are talking standing up. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now, at 3:38 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[It's ringing.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, if you are waiting for a meeting or talking, please leave the Chamber and continue in the corridor. I would ask my fellow Members to continue the conversation in the corridor, and we have moved to the interpellations. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure [[It's ringing.]] 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. By exercising its powers extended by Article 1 (1) of the Act, Zoltán Készép, independent Member, Mr K/13132. Mr László György Lukács Jobbikos K/1313136. Written question No 2 addressed to the Minister of Human Resources, as they do not fall within the remit of the Government. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with a title "Brigi," Ádám, Gábor and today's Hungarian public education." Congressman István Hiller has the floor. [[15.40]]
u2016-12-12-156	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, I asked you about Brigi, Adam, Gábor and hundreds of thousands of contemporarys in October 2015. My interpellation was then about the stress of the students. It's been over a year since then, let's see what's changed in a year. Brigi has been a third grader since then, now in class 3 b, her class number has increased by 2 compared to last year, last year she has 25 hours, this year she has 27 hours a week. Brigi, honourable Members, 9-year-old Hungarian girl. Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays you have 5 hours, Wednesdays and Fridays 6:00. When we asked Brigi's mom about that, she cried. Last year, Adam was a student of the 5th class, this year he became a student of the 6th class, now his class number grew from 30 to 32 to 32. He's got six hours every day, plus two hours. Adam is a 12-year-old Hungarian boy. Gábor is in seventh grade this year. Since last year, his watch count has increased by three, which is now 33. Gabor is a 13-year-old young man. He's got six hours, two times seven, and once, since there's no other way the teachers could schedule his schedule, he's got a 0:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. Gabor is a rebel in his own way, and he doesn't think it makes any sense. However, it should be stated that there is a direct link between the burden, unmotivation and effectiveness of students cannot be explained. The fact is that this is the result of the PISA survey in Hungarian. PISA, published recently, said about Hungarian public education that he was in a dive flight. The results were significantly worse than they were 3 years ago, which were significantly worse than they were 3 years ago. Their 2011 law on public education is a professional horror. The degree of nationalization is excessive, the implementation is lousy. The professional freedom of teachers is virtually zero. Students are raised underlings. This has to stop. Therefore, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State, knowing the PISA survey, can you see that the burden of Hungarian students and girls in schools has exceeded all critical limits. Do you see that, outside the system of public education, more and more people who can do so wish to provide useful and competitive knowledge? Do you know that the PISA 2016 results show the complete failure of their education policy? What are you going to do, Mr. Secretary?
u2016-12-12-157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-12-12-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, The last time you spoke on a similar issue in Parliament on the burden of students, I could give you the answer after that, and we can say since then that, recognising this problem, we have modified the legislation in early summer, during the summer, in order to ensure that until the time the new National Basic Study Plan arrives, the preparation and introduction of which obviously takes several years, it is precisely in order to be well developed and not only to expand the materials, but also to focus on those that are more relevant and, secondly, to be less relevant. Well, until the time that the new National Basic Training Plan is introduced, we have adopted legislation for teachers to provide greater flexibility and reduce the burden of students, precisely so that students or any other student you mention want to reduce their overload, but at the same time they want to give them knowledge, should have such a transitional opportunity. Those who lived with it, lived with it, who didn't live in schools, didn't live. Brigi is probably a real person you think back to, but if he had an imaginary brother, say Brigi's brother, called Bruno, then he would remember the period of education when the parents were waiting for September 1 with a frown year after year, because the textbook packages were becoming more expensive, or when the names of new teachers and teachers had to learn for Bruno quickly, because they had to send out 17,000 teachers, when they didn't finish their studies in that school, they didn't finish their studies in the school building where they started, because they closed schools in 381 places. Or Bruno could have looked at it strangely when graded in lower school, he could not understand how his teachers could take away a month's salary, and he looked at it with even more anxious eyes when he saw that the cocoa-proof computers that came in, how much more expensive they would be than home, with which he could also enjoy cocoa. But I'm sure Bruno was looking at you when, say, during the previous period, the number of mathematical points in the PISA results, the mathematics evaluation, the score dropped to 21 points, compared to the last survey, was now stagnating. Obviously, there were negative results at the time and also now, reductions in science, interpretation of texts in Hungary and elsewhere. If you look at the comparison, all three numbers in the United States have decreased, also in Poland. In other countries, even Austria, the declines are 12 points, in the Czech Republic 15 and 13 in Italy, but we could say otherwise; one of the most striking South Korea, they had 30 points of losses, and they do not ring a alarm bell like you. To draw our attention to the problem of this report, it is clear that we do not wish to argue with you. That we will be dealing with this in the near future is absolutely clear, and I am sure that there will be professional organisations that do not come close to this on a political basis. To evaluate it in a complex way, together with national competence measurement, together with TIMMS results, you know that TIMMS has improved data for both 7th and 8th graders, both for mathematics and for natural sciences. Then, when you speak up here, with the bath water, you can easily pour out the child, and here the children, many of them, have a very good performance that we should appreciate. And there are some things that might be missing from the system of public education today, and we have to work with the teachers on that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with teachers whose honor we have rewarded with a teacher's salary of one and a half times in the last six years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Hiller if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-12-12-160	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I know Brigi's brother Bruno, and his knowledge was assessed in 2009 in the PISA survey. I would like to present the results of Bruno and his associates, not by a politician, but by a member of PISA's board of directors and vice-president. I quote Bruno's results:. The most important result for us is that for the first time in the history of PISA measurements we will be able to report significant progress in 2009. A few years ago, another international measurement indicated an improvement in the understanding of the reading text of the younger age group. Now that the generation has reached the PISA era, the PISA text understanding study based on other principles confirms that it is indeed a significant positive change. Regular efforts can therefore improve the performance of Hungarian education. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's 2009, that's Bruno's result, which is why I don't accept your answer.
u2016-12-12-161	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Vice-President Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: instead of talking, people from work are waiting for answers! It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor. [[15.50]]
u2016-12-12-162	Mr President, Dear House, At last, on 29 November, a meaningful debate could have taken place on the possibility of giving men 40 years of retirement after employment, but unfortunately, this has not been done, and it is waiting for the government and the members of the government to obstruct themselves. They talked about everything but what was supposed to happen and what voters are interested in. Let's look at some facts. In 2009, MSZP raised the retirement age, took away the 13th month pension, ended the Swiss indexation. With one exception, Fidesz continued this policy. In August 2010, you promised - and here I would quote from the press conference of the Fidesz-KDNP - that after 40 years of service, women who retired independently of age will receive a full pension. They also added that the government does not intend to make any fundamental changes in the system of early retirement in the near future. Let's see what happened: they didn't keep their word, since they narrowed down the period of entitlement, instead of taking into account employment. It is also a fact that Jobbik has tabled amendments to the proposal that could have been used to widen the circle, and which would indeed have been an opportunity for women after service hours. However, you said no to the proposal. Let's continue with the facts. In contrast to the promises they made, the institution of early retirement was virtually abolished, pushing people who had been disabled in their work into hopelessness. It is also a fact that you took away the private pension fund of HUF 3000 billion, which did not end up in the hands of those seeking pensions. And one more fact: you have converted the employer's pension contribution into a social contribution tax with a noble simplicity, which was not the transfer of HUF 2000 billion per year from one public pocket to another, but the loss of the pension guarantee in order to pay a pension from it ever. Dear Secretary of State, Last Tuesday, the government and the pro-government representatives took the men of work lightly for six hours. The debate has been bludgeoned, and people have been let down. Please try not to bullshit me, focusing on the subject, to give an honest answer: does a man deserve to retire after 40 years of work? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-163	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-12-12-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Jobbik didn't want to give it to women after 40 years of entitlement, and now he wants to take it away. He does this by including his own electoral program. I quote Jobbik's 2010 election program IV. Paragraph 1 (3) of Chapter I.3: "The socially useful sacrifice of mothers who are raising and working with children must also be recognised by the State and, therefore, a pension allowance is granted to mothers. And now it is said that this discount should be abolished, that mothers should not have more preferential retirement opportunities than others. This was no different in the vote, because at that time, on the evening of 20 December 2010, the Group of Jobbik, you too, honourable Member Sneider, and György Szilágyi, János Volner, current group leader, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Gergely Kulcsár, Dóra Dúró, Gergely Farkas, Márton Gyöngyösi or Loránt Hegedűs, none of them supported this proposal. He didn't support it by being part of Jobbik's program. It was written in the program, the campaign was campaigned through the provision of pension benefits to mothers. Then, when it was possible to vote in Parliament on whether or not mothers, women with 40 years of entitlement, would receive a discount, but they voted against it. Now they present a proposal that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, as our Fundamental Law also makes it clear that women can benefit from the National Assembly. However, this discount would be completely emptied by your current proposal. We want everyone to have a sure pension, which is why we set the pension fund on a solid footing. You know that the pension fund was short of HUF 320 billion in 2010, which would have increased to HUF 460 billion per year by 2014. Therefore, we have introduced a new family policy measure: this new family policy measure is the, Women 40, so that after 40 years of eligibility, mothers can return to the family, then they are grandmothers. 181,000 women have been able to live with this in recent years. If it had all worked out the way Jobbik voted, this 181,000 women wouldn't have been given this opportunity. There are still 130,000 people who are using this right now, and the rest of the 181 thousand, obviously as the time passed, have already been entitled to the old-age pension. On average, women use 40 after 41 years of service, and on average they retire at 59 years of age with this family policy discount. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]] Not only did we try to help the elderly. They are also helped by the reduction of the rent; an average retired couple can save 88,000 forints if they have natural gas, 83 thousand forints for district heating, and 116 thousand forints for family homes. We helped 170,000 pensioners in terms of their stay, as they receive a bath ticket or holiday in the Erzsébet program for a symbolic amount of HUF 500 or 1000. And we are also helping those who are looking for a pension, because seven out of every ten employees over the age of 55 owes their job protection action plan, keeping it or obtaining it, because out of ten, after seven, they benefit from the job protection action after a total of 340 thousand workers over 55 years of age. We offer these discounts to both women and men. For women who have worked for 40 years or have worked for 8 years, and for women who have worked for 32 years, we have provided and kept the 40 for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Vice-President, Mr Vice-President, if you will accept the answer.
u2016-12-12-166	I see you haven't listened to what I've said, or you've done something completely different. By the way, it's typical that he only said the word "males" at the last minute, even though they should be talked about. But speaking of which, according to your promise, 250,000 women would be entitled to the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment. Instead, as the Secretary of State said, only 180,000 could take advantage of this opportunity, because 70,000 women were not given what they had promised them. Dear Secretary of State, Men, like I said, he didn't say a word. He was talking about us trying to take this away from women. Who wants to marry her? We do not want to take away the eight-year period of child rearing from a woman with three children, and, of course, that is exactly what we are pushing for, as it was in our programme. But God forbid, men rarely raise three children at home like a lady, so that difference between women and men would remain without it. Women who have children are still far better off than men. Since he hasn't said a word about the subject again, I obviously cannot accept that answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-167	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Koromba is the government suppressing Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps it is also known to you that according to statistics, at the moment 4 000 people are dying from air pollution in Hungary, which is roughly the same as the number of cancers. This means about 2,000 people in Budapest, and 200-300 victims per large city. This mortality rate should be added to 100,000 serious diseases per year, since about five of lung cancers are directly related to air pollution. It is no coincidence that the greenombudsman recently said that Hungary's most serious environmental health problem is air pollution caused by unconventional residential heating. According to the ombudsman's office, the main reason is that large sections of the population burn waterwood, low-quality but state-expensive lignite, brown coal, and even waste at home in stoves. As long as, in 2000, during the Orbán government, emissions of health-damaging particles from residential heating accounted for only a quarter of the total amount of pollutants, this is now more than 50 per cent, as is also known to the Secretary of State. As a result, air workers from the Air Task Force examined the air pollution of this level in Heves County and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County with the help of foreign experts, and today it can be said that in such a protected valley, where the air current is smaller, up to 30-35 thousand particles were measured in the measurement of PM10 contamination, which is a multiple of the health limit values. [[16.00]] People in poor areas have literally everything to heat with, uh, balm clothes, tires, tired oil, because they have no choice if they don't want to freeze. The problem is so serious and obvious that, for the sixth year, there has been infringement proceedings against the Hungarian government for neglecting air pollution, and the problem is slowly appearing in the international press, as it was written in the international press that the population in Hungary is almost as large as the infamous dirty air in China. And now let's see how the Hungarian system of public health and disaster management respond to this . After all, here the Orbán government guarantees a ridiculous amount, the price of a studio in Buda, to reduce the pollution of Hungary. However, public spending would be important, for example, in developing measuring stations in the capital and rural areas. The solution seems relatively obvious, the maximum water content of wood in social firewood programmes should be specified and fuel of sufficient quality made available to the poorest. Coal should be removed from household fuels and the public should be helped to modernise heating. This is what the money received from the EU to increase energy efficiency needs to be spent on. My question is whether the Secretary of State or his ministry could support the implementation of legislation that would allow the reduction of the environmental negative effects of fuels with such restrictions. I expect an honoured answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-12-12-169	I respectfully ask my fellow Members to continue the discussion in the corridor. And not only the socialist Members, but also my fellow Members with Fidesz, I would like to ask you to keep it down a little bit. I'm gonna wait for them to take their seats, or they're gonna go out in the hallway. [[It's ringing.]] I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2016-12-12-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, If it is important for you to reduce air pollution, you will not season it with the unprofessional and demagogic elements, nor discredit your intention to assist. 'Cause what's going on? The fact that, thanks to our regulation and new technologies, industrial air pollution above the limit has virtually disappeared in recent decades. Traffic-induced air pollution has dropped. That's why it became much more important... [[His mic's falling off.]] - I'm sorry. This is why retail emissions have become much more important. We agree that the biggest problem is the small particulate matter PM10, PM2.5, but air quality has been constantly improving since 1990. It is true that there are periods, especially heating periods, when the EU exceeds the EU threshold for some parameters, and the European Union, together with 16 other EU countries, has launched infringement proceedings against us. For this, the government adopted a sectoral programme in 2011, the position of which, by the way, is regularly communicated by the government to the committee headed by you. In this package of measures, the government expects HUF 770 billion to solve the problem. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the price of 54 million dollars in a studio in Buda is only the source of this year's communication costs. This year, the government spent tens of billions on this purpose, such as line electrification, energy efficiency investments, for the latter HUF 23 billion. In recent years, information materials have been distributed to municipalities for the proper treatment of avar and garden waste, and public energy efficiency applications have been issued for the replacement of heating heaters by the government and for the modernisation of heating. Just in recent weeks, the rural development application for shredders has been published, which we also drew attention to at a joint press conference that has the implications of reducing air pollution. In 2015 we started the heat smartly! A campaign to draw attention to the right heating techniques. Congressman! You created the category of living air pollution. Since the public talk lost the crime of living, I don't think it's a good thing to introduce it. The Hungarian social network does not consider this justified, and these speeches absolve people who are poisoning their environment with this substance. If only people living in extreme poverty used bad fuel, they would burn waste, Hungary's air would be much better. Unfortunately, it also happens in suburban areas, so information has a significant role to play. By the way, a HUF 3 billion instrument procurement project was completed last year in order to facilitate the modernisation of the air pollution measurement network. And indeed, there are overshoots, but it is unprofessional for the Member of the PM, because there is only a limit for the concentration of pollutants in the European Union. So it's wrong to refer to it. Finally, in answer to your question, yes, there is a legislation in progress that would maximize the sulphur content of the fuel and set a minimum calorific value. Thank you very much for your attention, and please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-171	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-12-12-172	Mr President, You can't accept that answer, obviously, because I'm saying 4 000 people are gonna die in this, and you're saying they're handing out brochures. So isn't Fidesz-KDNP's environmental policy ridiculous if you want to prevent cancer by handing out brochures? At the moment, the social firewood that is being exported has a significant proportion of it with 40-50 percent moisture content and could be under 16 percent efficiently. That's what I'm talking about. You'll make sure of that. If you have a simple regulation... You are now on the party of those who sell watered trees at the Fireworks, so that they can sell more and less per glaze. They're on their side. It could be done with simple regulations, and compared to that, it talks about brochures about exonerating people. We're not absolving people, but you're in charge of the authority that's supposed to reveal them. It is you who have eliminated the entire exploratory and monitoring system, who should enforce the legislation. You cannot enforce the legislation and you cannot ensure Hungary's environmental safety. They are therefore unfit to conduct environmental policy. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-173	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, [[It's grumpy.]] I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber, to talk outside, or to listen to Congressman Péter Ágh, the representative of Fidesz, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:, who is actually Ahmed H? And why are they protesting next to him? It's an address. At the request of the Minister for Justice, Mr.Trócsányi, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2016-12-12-174	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to Ahmed H., sentenced to 10 years in prison for acts of terrorism and other crimes, a demonstration was recently held by civil society organisations. The migrant party forces want to put pressure on Hungary again, because they want to legalise immigration, and I think we can say that they want to have migrants relocate Europe. At the protest, the activists of the Crete Circle and Migszol spoke of the conviction of the man because, quote, he threw away three pieces of brick because he was Muslim and a migrant. The lawsuits in Röszke are conceptual lawsuits designed to set an example and create fear. That's what they said. [[16.10]] On the other hand, the fact that Ahmed H. is Syrian, a 40 - year - old man was neither a refugee nor a refugee. He has a ten-year residence permit in Cyprus and lives with his whole family in Cyprus. The question arises as to how a person living in Cyprus has been a refugee for ten years. This Syrian man in Röszke, on a megaphone, encouraged the masses of illegal migrants to throw stones at police officers protecting the border and break through the fence. These are the facts and, if we look at it, a further example of the demonstration we have here is how organisations that support illegal migration would like to influence public opinion by false statements and at the same time discredit the government. Migszol is clearly a member of György Soros' support network for immigration. Almost all members of the Soros network are listed as cooperating partners in the organisation's own information material. At the beginning of the information campaign of the quota benchmark, this organization was also featured in the news, then two of their activists were caught in the act while destroying government posters. These organisations regularly attack our country, the government's border and anti-terrorist measures, the tightening of immigration rules and the anti-quota, anti-implantation referendum. However, in the October referendum, I think that the Hungarian people made it clear that they did not want mass immigration and the terrorism hand in hand with it. In view of this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether we can see another anti-government debauchery action behind all of this, whether we can see this from the fake civil organizations, who Ahmed H. is really. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-12-12-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Ahmed H. is a Syrian national man who was declared guilty of the crime of terrorism and the illegal crossing of border locks as a participant in mass riot on 16 September last year by the Szeged Tribunal in the first instance and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. This judicial decision is a judgment not final at first instance. According to the facts obtained from press reports, Ahmed H., through the megaphone, was chasing immigrants gathered at the border, shaking the cordon, throwing the police wall, and forcing the police to let the crowds gathered on the Serbian side of the closed border into Hungary, as well as illegally entering the territory of Hungary when the crowd broke through. The Ministry of Justice shall not give a resolution or interpretation of the law in general or in specific cases at a judicial stage, in particular that it does not have all relevant information on the case. We must state that calling for an attack or attacking the Hungarian border, the Hungarian police protecting the border and breaking into the country by force is a very serious crime. However, we all know that, given the separation of powers, the government has no influence on the conviction in criminal matters. The government does not have the power to take decisions in pending criminal matters or to influence decisions in cases in any way. In Hungary, the courts are independent, so the government has neither a say nor a say in court judgments. Therefore, we can only say that respect for Hungarian judicial independence is required of everyone and that it is unacceptable for a sovereign state to demand a review of its judicial decision, and that they are trying to excuse a serious act of illegal violation of the law, which deliberately violates the law. In Hungary, the court decides whether or not a person has committed a crime, and whether or not the court will impose punishment for it, and whether or not civil society organisations or those protesting against the judgment agree with this. It is shocking that these NGOs are now able to go out on the streets in order to protect a person who committed a serious crime, who, in fact, led, controlled and forced a violent attack on Hungary by the Hungarian police, the Hungarian border. These organisations regularly attack the government's border and anti-terrorist measures, the strengthening of immigration rules. They seem to want to legalise immigration and relocate Europe with migrants. But we do not ask those who do not respect our laws and by force cross our borders. We must take decisive action against those who are violating our laws and prevent such and similar cases from occurring, especially with regard to the fact that Europol has warned that thousands of terrorists could come to Europe mixed up with illegal migrants and are likely to commit new attacks. Overall, we can say that no matter who Ahmed H. is and who his followers are, the Hungarian laws apply to them, and the Hungarian courts act accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-12-12-178	Thank you very much. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. I think we can say that anyone who attacks the Hungarian borders, attacks the police or soldiers protecting the Hungarian border, attacks Hungary. You can't protect people like that, no matter how much they try to do it, they're fake NGOs. I ask all of us to continue to be determined to stand up in the interests of the country, and if this means protecting Hungary's borders, then let us stick to it at all costs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-179	Thank you very much. Congressman, you have accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Why did Hungary quit the international anti-corruption organisation? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2016-12-12-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán instructed us from the International Anti-Corruption Initiative called Open Government Cooperation, which has 70 members, to be a member of 70 states. [[Németh Szilárd István: Who pays?]] You know, this is the organization that was founded by eight states in 2011 and was actually created to strengthen the public awareness of budgetary data, the use of public funds, and to improve the availability of public procurement data. By the way, you have done this very rudely, because exactly this declaration of intent, from the exit, was sent to this organisation the day before its next meeting. I think this is appropriate for you, but perhaps not for Hungary. From this you could see that joining this organization was nothing more than a communication trick, or I could call it a lie, what they usually do, you always have to watch what they do, not what they say. In this organisation, you have also spoken about the transparent, open state that manages national wealth and public money responsibly, the accountable government, and have also promised to build such a government and such a public administration. They also promised to involve society and civil society organisations with active participation in the preparation and implementation of decisions. The goals are right, and we could agree with them, but you left this organization after two years of membership, and it is clear that you have done so because you cannot fulfill your own commitments. I am wrong to say that you do not want to fulfill your own commitments; because if it did, public finances, public procurement would be more transparent, and in Hungary would be a much more accountable government. Now we see that corruption is not decreasing, but is growing every day. Transparency International also says about you, the Hungarian government, that Hungary is 22-24 in terms of transparency in the European Union. You can imagine, Mr. Secretary, who will beat us to it. We must think of this as a centralised corruption in Hungary, which is based on a form of legislation which is also part of some level of legislation, since it has also been put at the centre of governance. Secretary of State, is that why you had to leave this organization? Or did you have to leave this organization because this government is no longer presentable? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for your attention. [[16.20]]
u2016-12-12-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-12-12-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary joined Open Government Cooperation, Open Government Partnership in 2012, shortly after its formation in 2011, and we were actively involved in this work. During this time, two successive national action plans were developed with public consultations and active involvement of civil society organisations, which were adopted with great dedication and seriousness on the part of the government. Hungary continues to agree with the principles and is deeply committed to them. We believe that open and effective governance, transparency, civil participation in public affairs, anti-corruption are all essential pillars of democracy and good governance. However, the government's decision to withdraw from cooperation was preceded by the fact that in July 2015 four Hungarian civil society organisations - or we can say fake civil society organisations - reported Hungary to the committee managing the cooperation on the grounds that Hungary had violated the principles recognised at the time of accession. Following the complaint, the steering committee brought proceedings against our country, during which Hungary cooperated with a constructive attitude and precise and detailed responses. However, we regretted that the recommendation and final report of the cooperation published this year do not reflect the comments submitted by Hungary, but that it acted unilaterally and fraudulently, not transparently, towards Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: Has everyone come across the highway?]] This cooperation went against its own principles, and it created a report in a false, false, completely unilateral manner, the recommendations of which also called on Hungary as a sanction, ultimatum, to suspend certain cases, and even threatened to exclude Hungary. In practice, in view of the above, the Ministry of the Interior responsible for the proceedings rejected the recommendations and subsequently the Government decided to withdraw from this fraudulent organisation on the basis of a decision. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Sleepy!]] At the same time, I would like to say very strongly that Hungary continues to be committed to a real, open and good governance, which is indeed with the fundamental goals that have created this organisation, it agrees, but in such perverse political games [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Yay!]] We don't want any part of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-12-12-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept the answer. The government can't act like a defiant child. If you don't hear what you want to hear, if you don't say what you think you're supposed to say about him, then you don't stand up, maybe you don't look at yourself, maybe you don't change your attitude, but you kick the chair out of you, and you run away like a defiant little kid? You're saying this is a fake civil organization? Do you say that as a member of the government that is about to encrypt investment documentation, budget for 30 years, and not make it available? They're encrypting contracts in the Posta case, and they're encrypting contracts in MNB cases, MNV cases, and you're referring to bogus, opaque organizations? I think they should change their attitude - the world will not change for your sake! Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-12-185	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 25, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Trafiks, casinos, state lands, EU and domestic resources, are hunting grounds now coming? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. [[György Balla intervenes.]]
u2016-12-12-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. As you know, in 2016, before the hunt, there was a serious watershed, as it is decided for 20 years how to define hunting rights, regional boundaries, which are who and where they will be able to hunt for 20 years. After a relatively consensual adoption of the Hunting Act, I can say that the profession and us, as well as the representatives, have been hit as cold showers, how this is actually struck in practice. The problem exists where more companies would like to hunt in a given area, and where there is a public area, this problem is just piling up, because, after privatisation, these public areas now represent only forest, nature reserve or airport, but in this case the state must decide which initiative to side with. I have sent a multitude of cases to Minister, and I believe, through Minister, the competent Secretary of State has also received them, where decisions have been made in an incomprehensible way for us, and there is no professional justification for why certain companies have been shot out of the possibility of hunting in these cases. Why did they do all this? Now you can see who the winners are, a well-defined, government-related lobby group, politicians and fidesz entrepreneurs who will hunt in these areas for 20 years, and practically whatever they want can happen there. In addition, I have presented to Mr Secretary of State cases where the state has supported foreign interests against the local hunting community that has been operating for 60 years. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I have also presented cases where the winning company, who has been supported by the state with its territories, will pay significantly less rent for this activity to land users than the competing, existing, old, well-functioning company, thereby damaging landowners and the Hungarian state itself. But the situation is not better when people - well-known Fidesz lawyers in Budapest - who have also been able to make well-functioning local communities disappear from this position for decades and destroy their professional work. I've also discovered a case where the government has helped a foreign hunting oligarch. I'm not saying that there are rumors, but there's more serious news than that, and ministers, undersecretaries and fidesz politicians are hunting in this area. It makes sense why they couldn't make a rational decision about why they couldn't take the side of local communities when they had to. I did not get a meaningful answer to these problems, so I had to call a hunting round table, where more similar stories were told to me by hunters. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what the state thinks of this. How can the Hungarian State take the side of these interest groups instead of the rural hunting communities? Why didn't professionalism matter here when they decided? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-187	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2016-12-12-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You referred to the hunting law, and I thought you read the passages of this when you voted for it, because if you had read it, you would know that the right to hunt is decided by the landowners. It's not the state's decision, it's not the State Secretary's decision, it's the landowners' decision. To help you understand, if the 1361 hunting grounds, where due to the expiry of the plans, had to decide who had the right to hunt, there are 164 of them, which are state-owned. In fact, there are 164 pieces, where the state is majority, and there are also a lot of private landowners. So we start from where the state can decide for itself who hunts in that area, 10 percent of all hunting grounds. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of this 10%, which means that more than half of this 164, the state is hunting itself, so it uses it as an operating area, as a state hunting ground, not as a lease. So what you're saying here is that you've revealed a number of examples, if I remember correctly, you said that many cases, I added up what opposition representatives have submitted to us written questions, oral questions - not just you, all oppositions - they relate to nine hunting grounds, on the other side of which is 1361, which is decided by the majority of landowners, therefore not by the state. The other thing I would like to suggest to you is that what you mentioned about rents, how much they rent, and that, where appropriate, there were no rentals for people who otherwise offered more for the particular hunting area, while in the other part of your interpellation you are concerned about the interests of local hunters. I think it's a pretty simple connection: that if I let go of the opportunity for the hunter who offers more for it, then obviously not the local hunters will benefit from this decision, but those who are billionaires will benefit. [[16.30]] It should be decided, dear congressman, whose side you're on. In one half of his interpellation, he worries about local hunters, and in the other half he says that it would have been good to have the rents higher. But I go on and back to the original idea: if the majority of landowners, and 90 percent of all hunting areas, are the private owners, they decide to give the hunting right for a forint, it will give it for a forint. If you decide to give your acre for 10,000 forints, you will give it to me for 10,000 forints. The state doesn't tell me. We have put one thing into the public domain: we have made a recommendation on what we believe is the rental fee for small wild, mixed wild, large wild areas, which we propose to consider, and the state has taken these ministerial recommendations into account in its own hunting areas, which it has not used itself, but it is in the majority and has rented there. These, by the way, exceed the 2006 recommendations by 30 percent, because inflation is roughly what we calculated. We didn't want to create an unnecessary price competition here either. I'd like to tell you to be nice, don't fall for every need that comes in to you. We have demands where the owner of the hunting right comes in, tells us how fraudulently he did not have access to the hunting ground, but forgets to add that he did not bring a landowner's certificate to the joint meeting of the landowner, and he is not a landowner himself, so we can't help him with the best hunting company, if he doesn't go to the landowner's meeting and he doesn't register, we can't help him. Honourable Congressman, My advice to you is to try to get a little behind things and not always approach them from the political profit side. [[Dr. István Apáti: You say it!]] But perhaps you should dig a little into the questions and study the law, because then you could clearly see that I didn't make the landowner's decisions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The state can't override it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-12-12-190	Thank you for the floor. Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Heves, Csongrád, Bács-Kiskun, Somogy, Tolna, Pest, Veszprém, Fejér, Vas, Zala and Győr-Moson-Sopron have received these signals, which I also sent to the Ministry. I was only talking about cases where the state was able to decide because it owned land. I wasn't talking about how private owners behaved at a meeting like this. We're always talking about the responsibility of the state, because we're in Parliament. We didn't want an unnecessary price competition, it's just that when you benefited from the price competition because your buddies didn't want to pay much for the area, they didn't take it into account. And when he was in favour of hitting the local communities, and their lawyers in Budapest could pay multiples of the promised prize, then the price race mattered. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that legislation is always examined according to the way it favours you and not in terms of wildlife management. That's the problem! Of course, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-191	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 21 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and Imre Vejkey, representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2016-12-12-192	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Raising in the family is safer than any other option. This de facto fact is also stated in the preamble to the fundamental law on the protection of families. In order to ensure the physical and psychological health of children, it can hardly be a more important task than the promotion of raising in the family. For the purpose of raising children from their families in families, the 1997 XXXI on the protection of children and the management of guardians. According to Law No. 13, a child under 12 years of age who has been admitted to child protection after 31 December 2013 should be placed in foster care, except in cases where the child is permanently ill or severely disabled, or where the siblings cannot be placed together with foster parents, or for other reasons it is necessary to provide for institutional accommodation. The replacement of large-scale, ageless children's homes above 48 places, the placement of children living there in 8-10-12 homes, the modernisation of housing homes with up to 12 seats and up to 48 seats, and the adaptation of today's professional expectations is extremely necessary [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and supported by government development resources. In Hungary, some 23,000 children currently have special care for children, almost two thirds of whom are foster parents. Dear Secretary of State, Based on the above, I respectfully ask you how the government helps to replace children's homes, to modernise children's homes, to create missing children's home capacities, i.e. when large children's homes in Hungary will cease to exist, and how the government helps foster care. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2016-12-12-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you for this question. I think that there are few public affairs in Hungary today, such as the fact that these children, who live in public care, can really grow up in decent conditions. We all know what we inherited in the 1990s. Most of the foster homes were too large, 80-100, in some cases hundreds of seats and crowded, and on the other hand they were built in an infrastructure suitable for children's homes, partly in castles and mansions. In the children's groups in the children's home, there were 20 and 30 numbers, and the group rooms for their placement were more like and resembled dorms and mass accommodations. Large institutions, crowdedness, isolation from the urban living environment, the dormitory lifestyle have greatly hindered and hindered family replacement education, the implementation of personal care and the preparation of children for self-life. This is why the government has decided to transform and renew its child protection system at several paces. An important part of this, as the Member mentioned, is the programme for the replacement of large, crowded, ageless children's homes. As a result of the previous replacement period, we have come to the conclusion that now, in these months, the last stage of this process, we have had calls for this in the summer and in the spring. Children living in children's homes will be accommodated in homes for 8-10-12 persons. This tender framework is HUF 4.2 billion. That's what the government will provide. Of this, HUF 3 billion will be secured in the convergence regions and HUF 1 billion in the Central Hungary region. The program started so badly that the first applications arrived. Overall, 30 applications have been submitted. They are being evaluated. We support not only replacement and conversion, modernisation and the establishment of accommodation and accommodation facilities for special and dual-needed children, but also training and training. As a result of this programme, by the end of 2019 there will be no large crowded children's homes in Hungary and this type of accommodation will cease. Another important direction, which Mr President has mentioned, is that we consider it even more important to continue to strengthen and develop foster care. In recent years, the government has undertaken that by the end of 2016, all minor children under 12 years of age will not be in a large institution, but in a children's home, but with foster parents. I can respectfully report that the government can deliver on this commitment, which we consider to be an extremely important result. [[16.40]] We think this is the way to go. The proposal to help foster parents in the infrastructure situation is being prepared and presented, and the proposal to ensure the entry of foster parents into the free training system. With these developments, we can make sure that every child living in the child protection system in Hungary today is given a real start-up chance by being able to grow up through foster parents in a real family, loving environment. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and those who are still in the homes can live in a renewed infrastructure. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Vejkey if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-12-12-196	Dear Secretary of State, Christian Democrats express their special thanks to the government for doing everything possible to give children as young as possible everything they need for their physical, spiritual and spiritual development. We believe that it is important for children who have been institutionalized to get as much as possible into foster parents and in more family-like circumstances. For some reason, those who cannot be placed with foster parents should be brought up in well - equipped, small housing units. Dear Secretary of State, I'd be honored to accept your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-197	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our interpellation agenda. We'll move on to oral questions. [[Noise. Several Members leave the room.]] Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But before I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, I would ask the Honourable Parliament that anyone who wishes to leave the Chamber should go out into the corridor so that we can continue our work without delay. Mr. Nándor Gúr, Congressman.
u2016-12-12-198	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, but factually: the number of accidents at work is increasing in Hungary. In 2016, 16 554 cases were registered in the first 9 months, an increase of 16 percent compared to the previous year. If, as an example, we compare to the four years before, the first 9 months of 2012, there are more than 5 thousand more, since only 11 264 accidents were registered. There's a lot of fatal accidents, but there's only 60 of them in these nine months. There were 134 victims of a serious accident, and 156 suffered a mutilation accident. So what I want to say with all these figures is that the issue of preventing accidents at work is not right in the world of work. But how would it be okay, when you have already done something about the Labour Code, which was in force in 2011, 2012! Most accidents are, by the way, in medium-sized enterprises, and at least in large companies, over 500 companies. By the way, the engineering industry is the most endangered, perhaps even legal, no wonder. In fact, my questions are about why workers are allowed to suffer these events. Why do they tolerate that a part of employers does not create the right conditions for safety at work, and people have to work under worse working conditions? And why have they weakened the role of labour and occupational safety inspectorates? How many more families have to lose their family supporters in order to finally realize that it is necessary to reverse the events of labour and safety supervisors and supervisors? Thank you very much, Mr President, I would like an answer to that.
u2016-12-12-199	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-12-12-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to give you a few numbers, too. Ten years ago, when the number of employees was well below 4 million, 2006 I-III. A total of approximately 16,000 work accidents occurred in the quarter of this year. In fact, 10 years ago, compared to this year's figures, there were 1.5 times as many tragic accidents. So the situation of job protection has improved since then [[Nándor Gúr's constant interventions.]] That's what the numbers prove. The Authority is doing its work effectively, which proves that since 2010 we have examined and examined the conditions under which more than 1 million workers have been employed. Most of the controls were managed, targeted at the most dangerous sectors. The government is committed to protecting workers, which is shown by a number of measures taken to increase the level of OSH. Let me list one or two for you to find your way around. We have strengthened information and advisory activities, providing information on nearly 10,000 questions per year. In particular, information and awareness-raising campaigns will be developed to support those active in particularly dangerous sectors and the SME sector. By providing a total grant of HUF 2 billion, the consortiums created by employers' and employees' interest representatives produce job-protection replacement courses, guidelines, and the rest. In order to improve the OSH situation, prevention is the most important step, and as the most important step of this, we have established and announced in October the national policy of OSH, which includes the priority OSH strategic tasks of the next 6 years. The work has already started. The implementation of these tasks - by strengthening public engagement - is the development of working conditions, work accidents [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and will serve to prevent occupational diseases and at the same time to ensure the competitiveness of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Nándor Gúr's intervention.]]
u2016-12-12-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Can we get a meaningful response to the development of roads 8 and 86? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2016-12-12-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 16 November, I asked Minister Seszták with a written question, in which I tried to obtain concrete and tangible information about the development of Highway 8 and Highway 86 south of Szombathely, towards the Church Radoc, as I received a number of such requests from the county. Unfortunately, instead of giving a meaningful answer, all I got were lines of misconception and no specifics. My questions were covered by only one paragraph of the nearly two-page answer. As I pointed out in my written question, there is not a single kilometer of motorways in Vas County, and as it stands, there will not be for a long time, which is a very sad fact. The people in the county are right to expect the government to openly tell us what its plans are for developing the county's road network. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself made promises in previous years, such as the four-tracking of Highway 8, which, apparently, remain so. In the summer of 2014, Orbán talked about the possibility of a four-track road to the Austrian-Hungarian border, while construction of the section to Budapest is also taking place. Of course, we appreciate the completion of the section of road 86 connecting Szombathely with Győr, although we do not understand why not as a motorway. Further improvements have been made, and Jobbik also welcomes them. However, to the south of the Vas county seat, transport remains slow and dangerous, and the proximity of the border would in particular justify the establishment of a highway, but rather a motorway. Dear Secretary of State, When will meaningful work finally begin on these sections of the road? When can people in the south of Vas County connect to the expressway network? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-12-203	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2016-12-12-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I am very confident that my answer will be regarded as meaningful, even because we have made it clear in response to your last written question, which are the road improvements that the Hungarian government would like to achieve by 2022, and the resources can and will be available for this. [[16.50]] The specific question, which was specifically aimed at sections south of Szombathely in Vas County, was also reported in writing, but I will say it again: the section of road 86 between Szombathely-Egyházasrádóc, which is now being extended twice from one lane to two lanes, which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2017, by the end of 2018, the last quarter. He mentioned the M8 road, here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is true, the Hungarian Government decided that twice a single-band preparation and construction will begin at the end of 2017 or in the first quarter of 18 at the latest, and this is expected to be completed by the end of 2020. What is important is that the double single-band sections will be developed twice into two lanes. You could say this is the first side of the road. Otherwise, all highways and all highways are prepared and designed so that they can be developed into full-fledged motorways. If traffic conditions require and obviously have a source for Hungary, it will develop highways into motorways wherever necessary. By the way, I would welcome the fact that in Vas County 92 kilometers of high-quality highways were built and connected the city of Szombathely and the area to the expressway network. I think that this should be welcomed, and that the development of road 76 in the area will be important, which will also affect that section, and it will be ready by the end of 2022 at the latest. I think that Vas county can boast of opportunities that we have been able to create in recent years on the basis of the performance of Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention and I hope you will accept our substantive response. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and István Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. Who protects the environment from the government? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-12-12-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, No more independent green authority. As a result of the government's decision, the National Environmental and Natural Protection Inspectorate will be merged into the Pest County Government Office. This brings us back 30 years in time, and we're in the same place as the party state. The difference is that the Kádárs considered environmental protection a decadent imperialist failure, and you considered it a left-handed dive. But in essence, they refuse to understand it as much as their communist ancestors do. The raging that the Orbán government has done in this area is unprecedented throughout Europe. There is no longer the Ministry of Environment, the regional green authorities have been liquidated, the Office of Greenombudsman has ceased, and now the national authority responsible for the professional supervision and management of environmental and nature protection official work will also become part of the government administration, with close political supervision, of course. This is mainly a problem because, under your governance, the environment should be protected from the government, from the destruction that has been disrupted by various government investments, loggings, stadium constructions, public and river-coastal cements, and which the hand-controlled puppet authority seems to be unable to act against. This level of weakening of the institutional guarantees of the environmental authority is contrary to the Constitution on the right to a healthy environment, the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court and the obligations that we made on strengthening the green institution system at the time of accession to the EU. In addition, however, they are facing the interests of the Hungarian people in the first place. Please answer: what is the public interest in weakening and politicising the green authority, and please state, please, that a healthy environment is more important, or that Fidesz's devastating activity will face fewer administrative obstacles? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-12-12-207	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2016-12-12-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your words of concern for the environment. The transformation of the official structure that you object to was not aimed at environmental authorities. Of the 30 government administrations integrated in the county government offices, only one was the environmental and nature protection authority. Indeed, the integration of government offices continues, the Environmental Inspectorate operates in the Pest County Government Office since January, but the fact that Richard Tarnai and his office do not have environmental experience is not factually true. The environmental department has been in office for nearly two years, and we ourselves are responsible for the professional supervision of this department. The fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for environmental protection, I hope it has not just appeared to be a representative, since it is not the case that the integration of the environmental portfolio in Europe would be unprecedented with other sectors. You know that countries with a significant environmental background have also carried out a similar merger. In Austria, for example, agriculture, forestry, water, green technology, construction and nuclear in Germany, energy in Sweden, infrastructure in the Netherlands, food economy in Denmark. By the way, the State Secretariat for Environmental Affairs will be enriched by genetic conservation as of 2014, so this is progress compared to the previous cycle. However, I do not think that the half a billion additional resources that we can use for this purpose are indicative of the absence of environmental protection and nature protection compared to the last seven years of the European Union cycle. Mr President, I do not believe that the structure determines the quality of work. You believe in a bureaucratic structure, that's your job, and the government's goal is to bring public administration close to the people. That's what we're doing now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: . How are the processes in connection with the renewal of the HÉV in Gödöllő and the connection of the HÉV metro? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2016-12-12-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For sale in Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, It is the second busiest axis of traffic in Budapest, with about 70,000 passengers moving in one direction every day. As the parliamentary representative of the district, we have repeatedly stressed that the problems in this area need to be resolved as soon as possible: more than 40-year-old trains, outdated tracks, and the last left-wing transport in Hungary. CHAPTER XVI on behalf of district residents and users of agglomeration transport lines, we welcome the Government's decision to take over the HÉV lines. Thus, the track, the infrastructure and the related assets are also transferred from local government to state property. This allows not only the renovation and restructuring of the stops, but also the development of the infrastructure of the HÉV about 100 km long and the vehicle park with EU support. State involvement in this area is certainly to be welcomed, and plans for the connection of HÉV in Gödöllő and metro line 2 Örs are under way. It is also good news that BHÉV, the Budapest Local Interested Vasút Zrt. has been established, which will operate in the near future as a daughter of the Hungarian State. Dear Secretary of State, Following these joyful developments, I would like to ask that, in view of the above, Budapest XVI. I would also like to ask, on behalf of the voters living in the district of Gödöllő, how the Secretary of State sees the process of renovating the HÉV in Gödöllő and connecting the HÉV metro. I look forward to your respectable reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2016-12-12-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The transport development concept of Budapest and suburban transport was presented in 2015 and 2016 for the date specified by the government. The latest version will soon be on the agenda of the Government of Hungary and will be discussed. This concept is based on the national transport development strategy, the national railway development concept and the Balázs Mór plans as basic strategies. You will certainly agree that the HÉVs need uniform regulation and uniform governance, and their development must also be thought of in a uniform way, just because we want to improve the potential of the HÉV. You also certainly support us to align it with the key developments in Budapest, align it with the development of the metro lines, the development of the urban railway, and naturally the relevant elements of the Budapest-Belgrád line section. [[17.00]] What is important is that as far as the Gödöllő HÉV is concerned, we can move towards strengthening infrastructure in 2017. Here, we will definitely confirm the intersections, we will develop them, and the existing technical state will be stabilised. Otherwise, the resources that are important for operational safety are always available, so it should not be a problem in this respect. The complete renewal of the HÉV line and its connection to metro line 2 can be achieved in full in the next EU cycle. I am very confident that many have seen the plans that are being taken care of in the BKK, as studies and studies have been carried out in recent years, so this is in the process. They also have the source of the creators. Public engagement is a clear guarantee in transport in Budapest and its suburbs as well as in Hungary as a whole. We are trying to coordinate with the national transport development concept, and I think that there will be a solution that will be environmentally sound, economical and will certainly enhance the comfort of travel. I would like to thank the factions for their year-round attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter is not present, so István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question about two current issues of national policy. Mr István Szávay, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2016-12-12-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 15 November, Minister Szijjártó held a hearing in the Committee on National Inclusion, and it was a quite positive hearing compared to the previous ones. We welcome the fact that Minister has taken a few cases out of his own hands, or has come up with a few problems, and has promised to follow up on a number of issues that my fellow Members and I have raised. I'd like to ask you two of these cases if we've been able to find out if it's been solved. One of them is the renaming of the Márai Sándor High School in Košice, which the Slovak authorities planned to rename, removing the school from the name of Sándor Márai. Minister said he had never heard of this case, but he promised to ask after this at some bilateral meeting. He specifically said that a question that will be on the margins of the next Hungarian-Slovak Foreign Minister's Contact or a multilateral agreement will be raised. Did you make any progress on that? That's one of my questions. The other is a question that I first brought to the House four years ago, and I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán with relatively little success, and this is the presence of Hungarian companies across the border, sharpening this on CBA, MOL and OTP. These companies open branches and chains in foreign Hungarian areas, but in most cases they do not respect the Hungarian community, even to the extent that, for example, they impose the knowledge of the Hungarian language as a condition of employment, so that they can employ a larger number of Hungarians, or, for example, to display Hungarian subtitles. Here I brought the OTP specifically, I visited many places, OTP not only refuses to honor Hungarian people with Hungarian subtitles in Osijek and Ungvár, but does not do this in the 35 percent Hungarian Szabadka, the 48 percent Hungarian-Hungarian-speaking Beregszasz, and even 80 percent in Dunaszerdahely. I find this quite simply outrageous, especially because a lot of Hungarian support can only be used by Hungarian parents from abroad through the OTP. Mr Minister has also promised to follow up on this issue, and specifically that he will talk to Mr Csányi about this matter. Is there anything you can do about that? Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-215	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-12-12-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I feel like I have some good news for you. On the one hand, in connection with the case of the Hungarian-Teaching School of Márai Sándor, Minister spoke with his partner, Minister of Foreign Affairs Miroslav Lajčák, at the V4 meeting in Warsaw on 29 November. Based on the discussion, we can say that the Slovak Government is constructive in this matter and that the name of the teaching institution will not be changed. In parallel, the Ministry immediately examined the case with the help of our Consulate General in Košice, consulted the head of the educational institution and the authorities of Košice county. It was clarified that neither the competent Slovak Ministry nor the county of Košice actually sought to take the name Sándor Márai. So they won't change the name. Whether the term "basic school" or "high school" can be changed in the name of the institution, there is nothing to be said about it yet, because there may be a change in technical terms, but the name of Sándor Márai remains on behalf of the institution. According to Mr. Minister's promise, he also agreed with the President-CEO of the OTP on 24 November, who said that they are trying to provide services in Hungarian in all areas inhabited by Hungary, and asked the Minister to indicate this if he knew a specific case. We would therefore ask you to give us in writing, then, where these problematic cases are, and then we will pass this request on to the CEO. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will total nationalization be terminated? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-12-12-218	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From 1 January 2017, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre will take over all tasks. Total nationalization is coming from the settlements, and they're taking away the running of schools. Local governments lose all influence in the field of education. It is true that this was not promised at the beginning of the year, but since then the bicycle has been pushed further into the ravine. Local communities will no longer have any say in the issue where the children of local families go, and there, obviously, there will be no say in the operation of schools for the municipalities. The LMP claims that this total nationalization is unacceptable. We must not decide over the heads of local communities, it is also a destructive step for democracy. We say that this is another nationalization, centralization, unprepared, grave irresponsible to carry out this process in these circumstances, which affects nearly 4,500 institutions. And it is not just that according to the municipal associations, this take over would cost HUF 100 billion, and László Palkovics promises only HUF 55 billion for this purpose, but only HUF 21 billion for the settlements. It is also unprepared because, according to Gábor Pölöskei, the head of KLIK, they are still negotiating and preparing draft agreements on this issue. In three weeks, everything goes to the KLIK, but they're still planning and negotiating. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP's proposal that any local government that requests and is able to maintain it and obtain appropriate standards will return its schools to it, but even if they do not accept this proposal, at least stop this total nationalisation; do not take away schools from the settlements, but leave the operation there. Everyone can see that this nationalization is unprepared and will lead to another chaos. Please stop this process.
u2016-12-12-219	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-12-12-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You may know that most of the schools have agreements, that the municipalities have concluded agreements with the Klebelsberg Center for Institutional Maintenance, so that the nearly 60 district centers and district centers are established to run these schools. You know, Mr President, that a number of years ago, in the case of settlements under 3 000 people, this maintenance change has taken place. Those settlements felt this was a relief, since since then the background of schools has been much more secure. We're talking about this here in the settlements over 3,000 people. This is the type of settlement that you have told us about about a year ago, in the last winter, many times in the last spring, about which there are operational problems in these schools. These are the schools that were said to be underfunded before 2010 and therefore the government's debt is increasing when it was entirely the responsibility of the municipalities. Thus, the model where the municipalities carried this alone did not work, since it ended in bond issuance and borrowing. The mixed maintenance system did not work when the maintenance and operation were divorced between the State and the municipality, so we continue now with the State responsible for everything, both maintenance and operation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have talked so much about the PISA results, that in the case of the first-ranking Singapore, the operation of schools is centralised, the school maintenance is centralised, the appointment of the school director is centralised, the decisions on teachers and teachers are also centralised. [[17.10]] There is a centralized system of textbooks, so if you're talking about which one works, which one doesn't work, there's no clear version that works or doesn't work at all, but it's certain that spending on education is much higher now, especially in the 2017 budget. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Like they were in 2010. And this will also provide security for schools, I think. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Who will benefit from CETA? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, he will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2016-12-12-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government has adopted a free trade agreement that we can rightly call the TTIP lobby. The agreement with Canada was adopted with a series of unclear questions, which should have been preceded by a wide-ranging social debate, especially with those involved in agriculture. There are many blurry spots around the convention, and the assurances that would protect Hungary's sovereignty are invisible. Once again, we ran into an agreement without necks, to be more precise: let the multinational capital drive into it, which we did not properly examine its advantages and disadvantages. In the current state of Hungarian agriculture, it would need to strengthen production, but most importantly, the processing industry. It would also be necessary to protect trade in domestic goods in the domestic market and to eliminate VAT fraud. The primary objective of the government should be to protect the domestic market, domestic producers, farmers and the continuous development of exports, but there should not be any agreement that could interfere with Hungary's regulatory system, internal affairs, and in which, as the power of the multinational capital lobby, it can sanction nation states. We should have learned from our accession to the European Union, learned from the experience of existing free trade agreements and been more sceptical about global agreements. I would ask the Honourable Secretary of State why such a dangerous treaty had to be adopted so smoothly. Has there been consultation with the representatives of agriculture in this matter? What are the assurances that the country's colonial situation will not be strengthened by the establishment of a supranational court? What benefit does the government expect in relation to CETA? Who will be your beneficiary? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-223	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-12-12-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The bilateral trade agreement between Canada and the European Union is now extending a trade agreement that already exists between Hungary and Canada; this is much more beneficial for Hungary than the current agreement. The dispute settlement mechanism is also a clear step forward, and since this signature took place at the end of a long, five-year negotiation process, which, by the way, allows for a temporary application, there are a lot of arguments that we ourselves have brought up on behalf of Hungary, and we feel that this agreement will be very beneficial for us. The Canadian and EU trade volumes will be increased by about 20 percent by this agreement, bilateral trade and investment relations will develop, our supply relationship system will improve, the Hungarian export potential will be improved, our agricultural export opportunities will be stimulated. It has been included specifically from a Hungarian point of view, and we appreciate this as a success that, in the case of canned sweet corn, the EU specifically provides preferential market access within the framework of a reasonable tariff quota and maintains the current duty. Meat and eggs have been excluded from the scope of liberalisation, the EU tariff quotas for pigmeat and beef are significant in absolute terms, but will not cause market disturbances in the light of the size of the entire Union market. After a long debate, the problems related to the use of the Canadian geographical designation of origin of Szeged Salami and Szeged in winter salami, thus ensuring the parallel use of the Hungarian designation of origin with earlier registered conflict marks, were also resolved. The appropriate protection of the name of the origin of the tokaji is ensured from the beginning of the provisional application. So we feel that there is no breach of the system of national standards for public health, animal and plant health in the EU and in the Member States [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the relevant national regulatory law of the Member States remains. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our agenda. We will move on to the next item on the agenda. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. The government referral is T/13270. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the House Rules adopted, 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the speaker of the Legislative Committee, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, a total of 30-30 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 8 minutes for the speech of the independent Members, 10 minutes for the rapporteur's reply. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-12-12-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, More than a quarter of a century have confirmed that the local government system is one of the pillars of democratic state settlement. Local authorities provide people with basic public services, shape and develop the living space in which we live. Mayors prepare municipal decisions, organize their implementation, and, in the noble sense of the word, the owners of settlements, with a high legitimacy through their direct choice. A good mayor is everywhere, has no classic working time, has a job, we say this type of activity is truly priceless; yet this bill is now attempting to support you and I ask you to support it. Since the adoption of the bill on the local governments of Hungary, there have been a number of proposals before the House to settle the mayor's stipends. Many of my fellow Members from both the ruling parties and the opposition have argued or argue that, in particular, the work of mayors of small settlements is not adequately recognised by the law in force. Several solutions have been developed, but none of them have received the necessary support. I trust that this will be different with regard to the bill that has just been tabled. The bill before us would allow mayors to pay higher salaries and fees, creating a more proportionate system based on population numbers, introducing new categories and bands. The proposal further alleviates the rules on conflicts of interest and sets the possibility of a sub-Mayor's allowance on a uniform basis, regardless of the way in which the deputy mayor's position is held. The bill also differs from previous initiatives in the fact that, in addition to a significant increase in remuneration, it is provided by the central budget, taking into account the capacity of the municipalities to bear a burden. The vast majority of municipalities receive the total amount of the increase from the budget. I trust that my fellow Members support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-12-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary a few minutes ago, in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule. The Committee presented a bill amending the Act and a proposal and a summary report summing up 35 votes in favour. [[17.20]] The draft amendment included two amendments, of which the amendments were tabled by Mr T/13270/2. In its content, the salary of the mayors of settlements of less than 500 persons should not be 20, but 30 per cent of the salary of the State Secretary, as well as a small technical amendment. The other Members' motions, Mr Benedek Sallai and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, were not supported by the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee has tabled a four-point amendment tabled by the pro-government members; all four points contain technical amendments. The debate was closed in a short time. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-12-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The time available for the fractions - which will appear on the display shortly - is 30-30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the group, Fidesz.
u2016-12-12-230	Mr. President. Dear House, It's been a long time since the mayor's salary has been paid. There have been several five-party discussions with several proposals, which have failed sometimes because we disagreed with the whole payment system, sometimes because the source has not been found in the budget. The current government proposal addresses these problems because it considers the payment of mayors in a uniform system and sets the benchmark for mayors' salaries a step up, not on the Deputy State Secretary's side, but on the Secretary of State's salary, and defines it in proportion. The proposal that came up at the five-party meeting - that in the calculation of the lowest category of settlements up to 500 people should not be 20, but 30 percent of the projection fund, and that is roughly HUF 300 thousand in summary - was finally accepted as a compromise, so everyone agreed to this, and this is included in the joint five-party amendment, which was accepted by the TAB. Here it is possible, and perhaps it is right that there are quite small settlements, such as the Sima settlement with 10 people, which are in the position of the mayor to have a salary of HUF 300 thousand. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where is this?]] Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is a very small settlement with a total of 4 permanent inhabitants and 10 declared. However, the fact is that the number of such small settlements is only a few dozen, and the Hungarian municipal system - which has already been mentioned in several decisions of the Constitutional Court - does not allow for such discrimination, which is to this extent different, so that we say that only a few types of settlements are taken out of this system. Such a disproportionateness exists in the districts and in the cities with county rights, as the town with the smallest county rights is between thirty and a few thousand and the largest is 210,000, the largest district is around XI, 180,000, the district of Budavár and the district I is 28 thousand. Once again, as much as we would like to, the Constitutional Court adheres to the principle that goes through both the Fundamental Law and the Mötv. that the municipal system is uniform and that it is only possible to distinguish between these municipalities with appropriate justification. It seems to me that the table in front of this House is eligible in all respects, and it would be very difficult to deal with the proposals that say that we only accept the lower part of the board, not the upper part of it, although the consultation is mainly about the settlement of the salaries of small town mayors. It is also true that the municipal tasks have changed considerably, and the task of a small town mayor in the amount of work to be carried out does not really reach the tasks of the former law, but whoever knows the small town world knows exactly what tasks the laws define for small settlements or even for medium-sized settlements, the mayor's task is much wider than that, and it cannot be overlooked that he has to perform a series of tasks that are not statutory, but that kind of assistance, the kind of opportunity that citizens have in a small settlement, is simply required. They go to the mayor, they turn to him with their crafty things, and they have every right to ask him for help. That is why I think it is justified to propose a 30-percent start-up to 500 people, so in the lowest category, the mayor's pay-per-view number. I ask the House to accept this proposal. Some important problems are still addressed in the proposal. One is the deputy mayor's salary. The previous system said that the sub-Mayors, at least one who replaces the mayor, would be required to pay, regardless of whether the village would judge him or has any intention to hire him. They tried to bridge this with various complicated solutions, which may have been legal, but it was completely meaningless, because it meant that the deputy mayor had accepted the payment because it was mandatory to take it, and then paid it to the local kindergarten fund, but first he had to pay it off. This obligation has been lifted, and we say that it is not mandatory to pay the deputy mayor, as in the previous system, and this deals with these anomalies. I think it is very important that, compared to the five-party proposal that we discussed at the time, this bill does not refer to the budget. The budget cannot be presented in salads, so a separate bill should have been put forward to amend the budget, but this gives a much wider guarantee, because the amendment 4. § 2 of the Act refers back to the section of the Mötv. which says that, as other obligations, this must be borne by the budget. I would ask Members to support this proposal in relation to the five-party agreement. In the beginning, I thank the factions for their contribution to the derogation from the four fifth house rule and for their support in the two-thirds vote tomorrow. I know that there is still room for improvement, and there are certainly some issues that would be worth clarifying in a later discussion, but I hope that we can agree to settle the mayor's payments. Mr President, honourable House, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-12-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next announced speaker was Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2016-12-12-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I took good note of Mr Secretary of State's highly innovative speech and the launch of his debate on the freedom and importance of the municipalities. I propose that the government also take these warnings with regard to the provision of tasks, in particular with regard to health and education. I would like to suggest to Mr State Secretary that during the budgetary debates he should always say these things and argue that the municipalities need greater support and normative funding, especially if education institutions are maintained unchanged in the provision of tasks. But the specific subject of this proposal is obviously different. There is also a very old history of this proposal, since since 2014, in particular, the salaries of small town mayors have fallen remarkably. We drew attention to this at the same time, and other opposition parties also drew attention. I think that the re-election of many very routine, well-functioning mayors is also linked to the fact that the existence of the mayor's profession in a small settlement has been significantly reduced. Obviously, this can cause serious problems, in many cases the mayor's role in the local public life is barely taken up by the inhabitants of a given village. We have indeed made a number of proposals to settle the issue, in particular to settle the salaries of small-scale mayors. It is also a proposal from other opposition parties, but it has all been voted out in the last two years. That is why I was pleased when István Happy, who was formerly mayor of small settlements and a member of the government, submitted a proposal on this subject, which we put in a state of five-party consensus about a month and a half ago, which would have been acceptable. Our criticism was that, compared to this, the government's proposal, which, contrary to this, wanted to settle the whole field, was not a problem with the mayor's salary of larger settlements, but that the mayors of small settlements were carrying out tasks that could not be replaced otherwise, often at the end of the month, they put bread on the table with the inhabitants of the village, or might help them to reach larger settlements. [[17 .30]] This activity is very diverse, and you obviously know it. This proposal, particularly with the five-party amendment proposal, which I myself note, provides for 30 percent of the mayor's salary in the settlements below 500 people. You gotta put this on the table. There are points in the proposal that are controversial, but overall, the Socialist Group has discussed this situation since last Thursday's government briefing, and we have come to the conclusion that since we have been proposing to settle this issue for years, we will support this proposal in tomorrow's final vote. However, we are still fighting to ensure that not only mayors, not only mayors of small settlements, but also the salaries of municipal workers are settled, as they do very hard work on the ground for citizens, for unfairly low salaries and most of them under very difficult conditions. The majority of the Parliament has not included our proposal in this series of subjects, but we are also fighting for the increase in salaries of local government workers and so that the local government world can create a better world for the Hungarians, working for the benefit of the people. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-12-12-233	Thank you, Congressman. The next scheduled speaker was Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Mrs Jobbik.
u2016-12-12-234	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let me first respond to some of the comments made by our fellow Member Kósa. He said this case has been going on for a long time. Yeah, well, it's been going on for a long time, exactly since October 2014, since you guys called the government in vain, just me, say, with five different submissions, I think the LMP, MSZP colleagues have done at least as much, but they haven't been willing to settle this problem since they've been saying that they're pulling because they haven't found a source in the budget. You said that what we are looking at here, and this is much wider, because it helps large settlements significantly, will cost the budget a billion and a half. So what we suggested, in the categories of settlements of 500 people and less than 1500 people, the increase would obviously have been much less. I suggest next time you don't find a source, please go at least to Ibiza, and ask Árpád Habony to take that ragged one and a half billion out of his vest pocket and then solve this problem. It wasn't for this, there was a lot more to find the budget. Please contact us, any member of the opposition, and I think you can make 10 to 15 proposals out of hair immediately on how to save this billion and a half. The other is that there are few people living in small settlements, there are only 10 people, there are only 4 people, then why should there be so much mayor's wages? With all due respect, the extinction of certain small settlements is a disgrace to the current government. Don't be proud of that. The point is that we take on our 3200 settlements as an inheritance to protect, and where only 100 or 200 people live now, thousands and two thousand live next year, because the future of Hungary is in these settlements. If you were a responsible government, that's how you'd think. That is why it is necessary to strengthen the position of municipal mayors, their dignity, by giving them more money, so that there is someone who can perform this task with honor. Then he also said that the work of small town mayors wasn't that much. Yeah, well, that's mostly because you guys shut down a bunch of offices, hundreds of them closed down. If the offices hadn't been lifted, perhaps there would have been more work for these mayors - one. Two, I suggest you go to the countryside and then look around the small settlements and see how these mayors live. These guys are on duty for 0 to 24 hours. Ask one or another mayor of a small settlement if he's had, say, an afternoon of a free Sunday recently or in the last year or two. They're gonna say no. Because with everything they do, the people, the citizens find them. Because if there's no office, who do they turn to? Well, the mayor. That is why I have proposed and I am very sorry to hear from my fellow Member Imre Vas that my amendment was voted off at the TAB, that we should say that in settlements where there is no self-government office, therefore life brings the mayor himself to the office, there is this significant development, because let us say that this is now a major development, financed entirely by the central budget. Why? Because, anyway, the operating framework of municipal offices is financed by the central budget within a certain recognised number of civil servants. Thus, the operation of the offices is ensured in this sense by the budget. So where there's no office and the mayor himself is the office, he's obviously not a civil servant, but let's take the mayor as an equally respected number and get his full salary from the budget. This would be an unheard of help to these settlements, because it is good that this increase will be made and the scale of the increase will be taken over by the central budget, but even the financing of the remainder, believe me, Mr Secretary, it is a problem and a problem. I would like to remind this House that, almost at the same time, a year ago, we were discussing the same subject. That proposal itself was scandalously wrong. The whole point was to put all the burdens, all the responsibilities, into the hands of the municipalities. It would have done so by providing a maximum increase of 30% at the expense of its own revenue. In English: Mayor, do you want more salaries? Pay tribute to the people. Well, that's what we said we didn't. We said that there should be a significant increase in the two lower categories and that the amount of the increase would be taken over by the central budget. Well, it's been a year, thank God, that's exactly what's in this proposal. Come on, why did you have to wait a year for this? At the time when we voted against this because it was a scandalously bad proposal, my fellow Member Kósa sent a letter to all 3,200 local governments, saying that we do not want to support them, that we do not love them and that we do not like them. And now you're telling me the same arguments I said in that debate about why you can't support the government's proposal. It's an extremely strange feeling, I'll tell you honestly, to live in such an alternate reality when the government is able to roll the cloak at this rate. Anyway, that's her problem. Let's not get into this now. So, thank God, these two suggestions, these two crucial points, are going to change, and that's good. At the same time, I'd like to ask you where that budget law is. Because I believe that if my fellow Member Kósa says so, I am sure that this will give the government even more freedom to provide that certain, previously unfound, source of budgetary law. But believe me, I think we'd all feel a little better here, take this whole story safer if we saw the amendment to the budget bill, that I don't know if it's in one of the points in one of the annexes. I trust Minister Varga, what he says, I'm sure he will. But believe me, what lies rests. It's the written paper that's for sure. I'm still asking you to do this because it doesn't matter what kind of resources the government will want to transfer. I would like to see this broader guarantee that I quote my fellow Member Kósa again, that the House is making amendments to the budget law, and it is written there that they will receive this money. 'Cause there's also the problem of tax power. At the five-party meeting, it was said that the government supports or does not support the amount of the increase in revenue of a certain order of magnitude. Yeah, that's a very legitimate point, by the way. I would like to ask you with respect whether this is going to happen or not; because, since we do not have any amending budget law, we do not know that. The Secretary of State made a semi-spoken reference to this in his speech, but he did not say anything concrete, so I could no longer interpret it. After all, just because I would like to give the floor to my fellow Member Ander, I would like to say one thing, explain to the House, which I have already done many times, but then again, why is it important that we try to maintain this settlement network of 3200 settlements with all our efforts. The problem is that in many cases we hear that Hungary's settlement network has been fragmented. [[17.40]] There are many small villages, small settlements, and this is not economically effective. I don't really hear any darker, dumber and Bolsheviker argument. In Hungary's history there have been a lot of tragedy and disaster, but our thousand-year legacy that we have so many settlements has endured every blow. Okay, there are parts of the country where there are certain destroyed villages, but let me say a settlement from which I wrote my degree, otherwise Jászapáti, a small settlement near Cegléd, was destroyed in the Turkish era, but it was resettled a few decades ago. So the inhabited landscapes that were formerly inhabited throughout history are re-populated from time to time. I think that, now, the XXI. In the century we are facing an extraordinary challenge, so this question is... [[Lajos Kósa: Jászapáti is not a small town, but a city.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I misjudged the name of the settlement; I'll make it clear in the end, but let me finish my argument, but it's very kind of you to say so. So the point is why it is important to preserve this tradition. That's because it's the 21st. We are facing extraordinary challenges in the middle of the century, and we need to be able to respond to this in some way. What challenges are we talking about here? On the one hand, it is a question of sustainable farming. So when we talk about large-scale farming and the fact that the tractor is in the way of the village, so that's why it's worth destroying the villages and moving practically its population to some town, then the answer is no, this is unsustainable farming. We must work with all our might to focus on the cultivation of foods that require a lot of manual work and are produced locally by organic farming. The other is the question of our identity, so the landscape I know I can love. Therefore, the greatness we are talking about is that 3 thousand people, about 3 thousand hectares - this is a mathematical average now, the weighted average is actually better - this is one of the healthiest settlements in Europe and the number of souls, because it is typically the case that a lot of people control a lot of areas, or a lot of people control a lot of areas, but the natural ratio and the healthy ratio in Hungary are excellent. Therefore, in view of this, we must say that this is a very good gift in relation to our identity. So an area of 3,000 hectares can be walked in one day, and you can get to know it well, and if you live there, you can really root your whole way of thinking, traditions, and lifestyle there. In the end, it's not a dog, it's a defense. When Hungary is facing challenges such as the migration wave now, we can think here that if Turkey opens its gates and the huge flood of people is pouring into Hungary for millions, then it is important that we inhabit our settlements in such a way that we can protect it. Of course, we should also provide our settlements with tools for this, self-defense should be given to them, but in any case, the size of the settlement or the size of the administrative area that belongs to a particular settlement is a very important defence aspect. Overall, despite the fact that our fellow Member Kósa, in both this argument and in his press conference, has been very disoriented and has lied to himself and his government about proposals that have nothing to do with, have nothing to do with, and probably will not be, we will nevertheless support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-235	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A two-minute comment will take place. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-12-12-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am only surprised that this bill comes before the walls of Parliament with extreme urgency. It is simply shocking that, following the 2014 elections, the mayor's remuneration and salary have been reduced, and then in December 2016 we will be able to discuss this issue with a particular urgency. It is a little cynical what they are doing, but on the other hand, it is finally a pleasure to see what my fellow Member, István Happy, has said so many times within these walls, but also opposition politicians, regardless of their origin. It's just that for the money that the mayors of small settlements have received, the money will run out of actors. Not hurt or offended by the task force leaders of the public workers, but the remuneration and salary of the mayors in the small settlement were roughly against them, and their responsibilities were likely to be somewhat different. So I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, my fellow Members, Mr Kósa, who was in the lead, only in reverse to this story, that when and when we find ourselves in the position that if we make a wrong decision, you have made a decision, and you are warned by the opposition representatives within the walls of this Parliament, then it does not have to be two years before the necessary steps are taken that are essential for these mayors to be able to carry out their task under fair conditions. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-237	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. We now have a preliminary speaker, Mr Happy István, Fidesz.
u2016-12-12-238	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think that if anyone talks about the mayors of the small settlements and knows exactly what they're talking about, it's me, because for 20 years I've been running a small settlement like the one that started this whole discussion. Strangely, I still have a good memory. When I got into the country's house in 2010, there were voices from the opposition benches about small town mayors - there is no one here today who said these things - that he is stinginging, little judges, small kings. If we look back at the records, I stood up with a lot of heat and asked myself to call the mayors of small towns the same, because, of course, as in all professions, there are people in the mayor's profession who make mistakes or abuse their powers, but the fact is that because of the fault of one person, I said that there is no way to identify a profession. What do small town mayors do? The mayors of small settlements and the mayors at all, because not only the small settlements obviously started this amendment, but they are the ones who serve the people who keep direct contact with them. They not only manage the settlements, they not only manage the public works, but they are the spiritual guardians of each settlement, maintainers, if necessary, and, of course, they write the applications, they manage the investments and do all kinds of work. I had a colleague who told me - just so I wouldn't tell my own story here - that it happened to him that his phone rang at one o'clock in the night, and a familiar lady in the village called him that the light bulb in the kitchen had burned out, and Mr. Mayor told him at one o'clock at night that she was kind," he said, "I should go now or tomorrow morning." That's how small town mayors work. They can't avoid the population, they don't have to host hours, because they always, every day, meet everyone. It's quite obvious that this is a different job than in a big city. It is also a very difficult job, it is also a very important task, it has its advantages and disadvantages, and small town mayors also have a very different but equally difficult job. I think that each of these responsibilities has to pay the price, we have to appreciate not only these people morally, because for that moral respect, I think they get it from their own voters every day, but we, the state, have to recognise them financially. [[17.50]] Of course, when we adopted the new municipal law, I saw that there was going to be a problem, and since then I have been constantly trying to change it. I was also very pleased when Mr Lajos Kósa asked us to sit down and try to establish a five-party consensus after the submission of a number of amendments - from opposition sides, even from myself. I am also pleased that the five-party consensus, if we look at the numbers very closely, does not differ so much from what we are now accepting, but only fundamentally changes the method. It was also part of the five-party consensus that the mayor could be better rewarded financially in larger settlements, as it was in it that, up to HUF 200,000, the body of representatives could deviate from its own budget. Compared to this, the government is now introducing a different method, basically stepping up a category of people to pay, bringing about a difference of magnitude to the mayor's salary in some settlements. We do not think that only small settlements had a pay cut in 2014 with the mayors, this was done in large settlements, even in cities with county rights, but it came down quite differently there, because it doesn't matter that someone's salary fell from 300,000 to 140 thousand just because they had an election, or they only had a 50 thousand down payment, and they didn't have 550 thousand, only 500 thousand. I'm glad we've come to the point where we can raise this. It is also a very important question, and we talked about it in the five-party, but in the end we did not want to agree to this at the previous five-party trial, that it is indeed the salary of the sub-Mayors, that it is compulsory to pay 110 thousand forints to a sub-Mayor in a settlement of 600-700 persons as an extra fee, that is not a good thing. This cannot be financed by the municipalities, and it is not in proportion to the work done. That's why things that weren't entirely legal, or at least at the limit of legality, happened that the deputy mayor didn't take his salary, transferred him to foundations, and invented all sorts of methods. I am pleased that the government's proposal is now addressing this issue, and it will be resolved that the municipality of each municipality can decide for itself how much wages it sets for its deputy mayor. I'm sure that will also be a great relief to the settlements. My fellow opponents said why the salary did not increase two years ago. Luckily, I have a good memory. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Because it has fallen.]] Yes, because after the municipal elections, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked me whether it was true, if I remember correctly, that Fidesz now wants to raise the wages of the municipal mayors, because he took it down to get his own people to go for small money, and then when the election was made, they would quickly raise it up to them. In such an environment, it is no wonder that no wages could be raised when those opposition voices came, that we wanted to raise wages for small town mayors, because we reduced it so that opposition candidates would not start. This has been said here in the House, and this can also be looked back, of course, and there have been countless interviews on this issue, and LMP was not the only representative gentlemen and ladies who expressed themselves on this issue and spoke similarly about the opposition side. Once again, I am glad that we have come this far, and I trust that tomorrow everyone will stick to the five-party agreement, and we will finally achieve that the wages of small-town mayors and the greats will be settled, and the important content issues that are in this law will be settled. It is also very important that the government undertakes to finance the wage increase. I think that this will mean a lot, especially in the smallest settlements. Of course, where they are significantly better at tax power, they can do so. They would have done it even if the previous five-party agreement had entered into force and had to be financed from their own budget, because I think they could have financed it. I thank the representatives of the parties for their attitude at the previous and current five-party councils. I think that we are now putting an end to a problem of more than two years together, which we will finally be able to fix. Thank you for your support. I would like to thank the Government and Group Leader for their efforts to overcome this problem, and I think it is very important that we have managed to increase the multiplier from 20 percent to 30 by a five-party agreement in the smallest settlements. I think that this will finally resolve the fact that no settlement size will earn less by a multicycle mayor than he had earned before. Once again, I ask everyone to vote in favour of this amendment tomorrow and to allow the mayor of all settlements to increase their wages from 1 January, the little ones to get back what they lost in October 2014. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-239	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, and there may be other politics.
u2016-12-12-240	Yeah, that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you very much, Mr President, and congratulations on your perseverance, a very long-running President today. I am happy to join in the speech by my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, because the interesting thing is, indeed, that there are regional and geographical features of the Hungarian settlement structure. The fact that, adapted to such geographical conditions, as in the lowland agricultural towns, Zala or Borsod, the settlement structure is the issue of the availability of the cultivated land. Deviation from landscape considerations. When someone says that these villages are not needed and that it is not effective to maintain, they want to create a structure where people do not have to live there. Obviously, the background of this is, let's add, not Fidesz-KDNP, but practically before it is the policy of the governments of 2002-2010 to support infrastructure withdrawal, the elimination of wing trains, the closure of small schools, and all of these have contributed to this process, which, by the way, started earlier. The reason why this process is extremely worrying is because it has been visible since 2014 since I have been here in Parliament and I see legislation that Fidesz-KDNP has practically abandoned small settlements. Mathematically, it's not worth dealing with, because if he turns his resources into settlements over 10,000 and campaigns there, then it's safe to give them up and let go of all the small settlements, and he did so. I am just saying to my fellow Member, Happy Stephen, as an example, let us take a look at the road renovation, for example. If anyone is happy, then István is aware of the significance of, let's say, the connection road at his client's office, and how long it's been practically for renovation. What are we looking at this year? Road 46, thanks to God, now it's being renovated, the small access roads stay the same, and this is generally the case for every infrastructure. You can see how many schools they've reopened, how many wing lines they've tied back. Technically, there was no development that was practically necessary. I would like to make a very interesting parallel just to be interesting, because this invention, that small villages are not needed, is not an invention of Fidesz-KDNP and not of the Gyurcsány governments. Because we just celebrated the 25-year-old Anniversary of Nicolae Ceauşescu's announcement of the conscious destruction of the village. So someone else has already figured out that villages are not needed. By the way, this kind of franchise of Ceauşescu not only applies here, because he was the first leader to make a stadium in his own village. [[Noise.]] So there's also a parallel in his activity in this direction. Practically how to treat villages and village structures, Hungary is virtually unable to present them, but if we go a little west and look at, say, the Austrian settlement structure, where 40 people settlements can successfully survive by helping them with an agricultural system that ensures landscape cultivation, this is a viable way of doing it. I recently saw a locality from an energy point of view, where they made a central heating system for the 40 houses in the village because it is efficient, so that they can cultivate the available regional unit. But the rural policy whose agricultural policy supports the large estate, which eliminates small estates as Fidesz-KDNP does, clearly does not build on these small settlement structures, and that is a problem. [[18.00]] Obviously, the clarification of this issue and, as my fellow Members before me have done, is essentially a question of rural policy and small settlements. He mentioned the question of my happy fellow Member that my Group leader Mr András Schiffer turned to Prime Minister in October 2014 because he wanted to prove that Fidesz-KDNP did not have an earlier purpose to reduce interest in mayor positions. I printed out the statistics from the Váltasok.hu page on how the number of mayors has evolved in Hungary since 2006 in settlements of less than ten thousand. In 2006, there were a total of 8400 candidates, i.e. independent and nominated by the organisation. In 2010, it was only 8100 candidates, so it disappeared. What happened by 2014: it fell to 7200. So whether that was the goal or not, it worked out that fewer and fewer people are interested in small-town management. What could be the reason for this? It may be exactly what my happy fellow Member says that this role as a spiritual caretaker must be available for 0 to 24 hours, and this must be done here. But still, now, even after the raise, what do you think: will you find for 199 thousand forints innovative, graduate people who are able to run a community, who will apply for applications in themselves, and will have spiritual support for the settlements to do so? And obviously that's why it's important to talk about it, because that's the root of it all. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party and Jobbik have said before me, we have been continuously presenting initiatives in this regard since 2014. In your honor, my fellow Member, István Happy, tried to initiate this, and the ugly end was that the government would have said that, of course, they should do what they wanted if they had money. But that's the question of who has money, and who has money, how do we deal with them. I have basically participated in two amendments, and I would like to thank one of the amendments to the Legislative Committee for passing, which raises incomes from 20% to 30% of the Secretary of State's salary in the smallest settlements. Thank you very much to those with whom we have submitted this together, so that this could have happened with such a consensus. And I tabled another amendment, which I was sad to hear was not supported. In this amendment, all I did was leave the fund on behalf of some of the leavers on behalf of the Deputy State Secretary's wage, and I took it, and in the settlements of over 5 thousand, I stopped raising it by any percentage. That would have been justified. After all, if you are talking about giving back the wages that you had before 2014 to the small town leaders, then don't forget the fact that they will be returned to them, while the large settlements will be significantly raised. This is why we have reservations about this motion, because we would be delighted to return to what we originally talked about, how to help the leaders of small settlements. But I'll tell you this: in the case of county government leaders, incomes are raised from HUF 673,000 to HUF 896,000. This means an increase in income of HUF 223 thousand with this decision. In cities with county rights and in the metropolitan districts, it is raised from 747 thousand to 995 thousand, so income increases by 248 thousand forints. At settlements over 30,000 people, it is raised from 598 thousand to 796, with another HUF 198 thousand increase in income. Even the settlements over 10 thousand have a substantial amount, as there is a HUF 173 thousand increase from 523 thousand income to 697. If we look at what these increases will result in compared to the pre-2014 situation and the current situation, we can see that there is a substantial increase in settlements above 10 thousand compared to pre-2014 conditions, while now we have a great difficulty in reconstructing the pre-2014 situation in settlements below 2 thousand. So they don't get a penny more, we give back what they got before. There's no rise, and that's the problem. Obviously, we can talk about whether there is a tendency to raise salaries in the public sector at all. Let us talk about how, in practice, when we say that by 223 thousand, 248 thousand, 198 thousand, we increase the income of the leaders of the major settlements, how justified that is. Don't you see anywhere else in the public sector where such resources are needed? Just the other day, I was talking about this in front of you guys, and right now, thanks to God, there's been some kind of teacher's wage arrangement. What's happening now is that after this didn't happen in higher education, a high school gym teacher earns more than a university assistant with a degree in science at universities. For example, there was no wage arrangement. But we can also talk about the wages of health care workers. So these injustices that are being implemented in the public sector with their wage policies are everywhere. They give birth to the wage tension we see every day. It would therefore be very, very difficult for us to accept such unjustified increases. But I'm asking you again, Mr. Happy Congressman, as an expert on the subject at Fidesz. In many of the metropolitan districts there are 25-28 thousand people, whether we look at the 1st district or the 5th district, where we are now, 25 thousand people. It's the same size as Turkszentmiklós. In one case, we say that just because it's a capital district, the 995 thousand increase is justified, while the same is 200 thousand forints less, 697 if it runs a settlement of the same size in the countryside. And where is it easier? Obviously, in the capital, the V. district is one of the largest local business tax settlements in Hungary, so it has all its own revenue to know the right administration, while in most of the smaller settlements it is provided by themselves or with very limited staff. As a result, the fact that, let us say, the metropolitan district leaders, for whom this 25 000-plum district V, district I, or some of these may be mentioned, should be guided by whether these are justified, in my opinion, that this is highly questionable, and therefore I think it should be considered that a degressive, positive position for small settlements, and, if we look at the number of people, we need to establish higher income payments if we are to project incomes for one person, and it would be time for us to manage the administrative pay table in a uniform manner. I'll give you a suggestion, see if anyone here will ever be a governing party and consider it. What if we tied it to the minimum wage and applied the wages applied to it in the current public sector so that honourable Members of Parliament could not raise salaries to their parties, to their own mayors, to their own ministers or to ministers without raising society with the minimum wage and basic wages? Obviously, it could be done. But at the moment, what the government is doing is that those who have more lobbying power are better able to influence the governing parties to move forward or to have a greater social background - say, a union with an advocacy power - they can move forward and everyone else slides down. This is the typical unfair pay table. That's how you can instigate, instigate society against each other, and this division that Fidesz-KDNP inspires in society can maintain the kind of power technology that they use. Obviously, this is the reason why, in line with the original motion, I would have been delighted to support this if my amendment had been accepted and this undue increase in salaries was taken out of the larger settlements, in my view. Let me tell you one more thing, which is not due to a Member of Parliament or anyone else in Hungary today; so when a teacher receives a reward of any million dollars, or anyone in the public sector. The news of the last few weeks has happened to two Fidesz municipalities, and I believe he has given the board a reward of 4 million in Nagykanizsa. So in settlements with millions of rewards, is it justified to increase their salary by another HUF 250,000 a month? Overall, my strong opinion is that, by all means, at any cost, but at some level, justice must be created for the income of the leaders of small settlements, account should be taken of the amount and quality of work they carry out, and, if possible, to encourage young people and innovative, good-minded leaders to go there to small town leaders, and therefore, wages should be used to make it possible, but there is no reason in the world to make hundreds of thousands of HUF raises in capital districts, county government leaders, cities with county rights, or settlements over 30 thousand people. And this is the most extreme point in the metropolitan districts, with a quarter of a million forints, and 248 thousand forints only for the raise. How many nurses or people in the public sector would not welcome such an increase, such a salary at all! ? At the moment, I obviously understand my fellow opposition Members that if they say that they are doing a little good so that they can at least achieve that small settlements have it, my only concern is that, despite this, the injustice itself, the fact that the Parliament is giving large settlements a much greater income in its proportions, is not worth the price. So right now, I can't announce that the May Other is a political faction that supports this, and we're negotiating right now, and we're trying to make a decision on how to proceed until tomorrow's vote. We hoped that our amendment would pass. We were hoping that the Fidesz-KDNP would assess that there is no reason to burden the budget at this level, that there would be a good number of places in the public sector where this framework of wages would be needed, and that the amendment did not go through, and that the Legislative Committee rejected this, we would now be embarrassed by the Fidesz-KDNP and the majority of the Legislative Committee, that we should indeed reconsider our position and see whether this should be supported at this price. [[18.10]] I ask with respect for the adoption and understanding of our opinion. And please do not be discouraged by improving the situation of small settlements, but by adding 25 thousand plus 28,000 to the metropolitan districts with 250,000 incomes, where rewards are received, please acknowledge that in Hungarian society, in its current situation, there is no justification in any form. This will determine our voting behaviour. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-12-12-241	Thank you very much. Good evening. Congressman Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, when Lajos Kósa wrote that particular letter, I also had to explain to the small town leaders of the area what was in the letter that the evil opposition and the evil right-wing representatives prevented them from settling their wages and the rest, and so on. Obviously, one word of this was not true, as Mrs Hegedűsné said here in the previous ones, but we did have to be ashamed, despite the fact that I came from a constituency where this question is very, very relevant, because in my constituency of 77 settlements there are only 10 settlements, a city, a large village where more people live than 1500 people. By the way, it is feared, as my fellow Member Sallai said here, that this number will also be reduced due to government measures, as there are several settlements, such as Babócsa or Csokonyavisonta, which is at the 1500-person border, and, let us say, they will not reach this limit in the next century, either, because the population-reserving power of these rural settlements is small, let us face it. Obviously, you can't put everything in the hands of the current government. So it is a huge task for these mayors here to reverse these negative processes, and therefore they should be valued. That is why Jobbik can support this proposal despite all our objections or criticisms, because if you look only at the nine counties of Transdanubia, the 74 districts there, of which 12 are in such a bad condition as to be developed with a complex programme, let me say that 3 of these 12 walks are located in the constituency where I live. It's the same as the barch, the Grandpa and the Surgical District. So the small-town mayors here do take on a kind of heroic task, when they really try to operate these settlements professionally and save them from the waste which we can see many tragic examples of, because it is true that they did not now have a self-government, but a few years ago, Kakpuszta died, or the settlement of Somogyszentimre near Kadarkút, where tragic processes are simply not imaginable for the future of rural Hungary. We in Jobbik - beyond the figures and budgetary figures - believe what Sándor Csoóri has said that this nation, this country, has been kept by the village and the Hungarian countryside for a thousand years. If there were no Hungarian village, there were no Hungarian countryside and its dedicated leaders, then this Hungarian and Hungarian nation would not look like it now, we would be much poorer without them. That is why we believe, therefore, that in the fight for national survival, we need all 3,200 or almost all 3,200 settlements as much as a castle, at least that's how Jobbik sees these settlements and small settlements where fewer than 500 people live. And here's a little government criticism for my speech. At the time, you promised and described in the programme "National Development 2030" that you would place particular emphasis on saving and maintaining these small settlements. By the way, we can see that nothing has come of it, or that this program is moving very, very fast; the paper can handle a lot of things, as it has been in this case. These are the settlements where the idea of the garden-Hungary of László Németh, not the Imre of Somogyi, or of the garden of László Németh, is largely valid, but it is quite different everyday life and completely different Hungarian reality. Rather, it is settlements with complex social and economic problems, which, because of these problems, often remind your misguided, say, government potentates of going to places like this, other than a village day, as if you were in, say, Internal Africa or sometimes, let's say, such a reservation in the Lower Balkans. Yes, my dear Happy fellow Member, come to, say, South Somogy, and look at the settlements which, I say once again, have been depraved not only because of your omissions, but also because of omissions across governments, but have fallen to the point where they are now. For this reason, the leaders of these settlements should have been valued and given the recognition in material terms that this function would have required. What I said here is that it is not only your fault that the Hungarian countryside looks like it is now: after World War II, there was a violent collectivization, a forced and fundamentally flawed industrialisation policy. Then came the so-called 1971 national settlement network development concept, which issued a death sentence for 2 thousand settlements in Hungary, saying that they were non-participated. By the way, I would like to point out that almost one fifth of society, some 18 percent, lived or live in such settlements, which in 1971 were condemned to death by the communist comrades with their completely insane, mesmerizing idea. These settlements, by the way, represented two thirds of the Hungarian settlement network, two thirds of the settlement network that my colleague Sallai was talking about, and which, indeed, is constantly dying because of the current failures and is in great danger, because we can recall here the mobility guarantee that is very, very hard; it is possible to see how the inhabitants of these small settlements can get to those regional centers, my dear Happy fellow Member, in which you focus your tasks; it is possible to see how the safety of these small settlements, the people who live there, often the aging jackals in human skin, can keep people in fear, because there has certainly not been order in two weeks. And if we think of these problems, of these tasks to be carried out, then - once again, Jobbik can support the idea of finally settling the wages of small town mayors with a full chest width. But we can go on: after the communist village destruction plan in 1971, there was a regime change, with a radically flawed concept of compensation, during which all kinds of lawyers in Budapest, or even such, obtained land assets instead of those who would otherwise have been entitled to the land fortune. Then came a socioliberal government, when one of their spiritual guru said that the Hungarian village was a medieval retard, and in this form it was actually condemned to destruction. And you have come, my honourable pro-government colleagues, who have created a national rural strategy, but this national rural strategy is not exactly being put on a shelf, and it is still on the shelf, because if that were not the case, there would be a very different landscape for opposition Members of Parliament. So all of this is not just government responsibility, not only because of government incompetence, but there is a very long historical prelude to the fact that the Hungarian countryside is in a state as it is now. Therefore, small-scale mayors do deserve the wage arrangement that we are discussing here, especially if they consider as a 24-hour service the mission - I can safely say - to save the nation or save the countryside that they are conducting there. [[18.20]] Jobbik would set criteria or think of criteria for small settlements that would be a triple pillar for all such small settlements. One of these pillars, my fellow Members, is the capacity for self-preservation. The more self-sustaining such a small settlement, the more secure your future is. Then the ability to self-defense in small settlements is very, very important [[Dr. Vas Imre: How long were you mayor in a small settlement? Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is in vain for you to laugh so cynically when you think that if a small town mayor who is professionally engaged takes these tasks seriously, for example, by running a neighborhood guard, or by doing so. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] By exploiting the land owned by the village that can provide them with self-sufficiency and self-preservation, it is already necessary to acknowledge how huge the task is for them. But there is also the third pillar that you prefer to cut, and that is the right of the broadest possible local government. I mean, what's a settlement without it? However, what we see is in many cases the radical opposite of this, the small village syndrome, when the state withdraws from these settlements, and either it is getting old and demoralizing in its demographic potential, a settlement of this kind, its population strength will be completely crushed, or, if this does not happen, it will become quiet and it will certainly form a domestic no-go zone, my fellow Members, in becoming a form of hostile tribal territory. And where appropriate, a small town mayor must face all these problems. They're not in a position like, say, a government representative here in the comfortable benches. So... [[Happy István: Now, so! Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] You, my dear Laughing Happy fellow Member, have been referred to as... [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] About that, yeah. [[György Szilágyi towards István Happy:...press a button instead!]] It was argued that they had not previously been covered by the budget. Then I'll just give you one number, my honourable members of the Government: if your oligarch, Lőrinc Mészáros, has taken a HUF 3.5 billion dividend out of his companies in one year, then what are they talking about? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Was it your own talent, science, and diligence that brought you this unforgiving wealth gain, or did you fill your pockets with state projects and billions of dollars? Dear fellow Member, If this is the latter case, then you should also have had the opportunity to settle the wages of such small-town mayors and not sneak around and try to mislead them, making the opposition's collective responsibility for what you have sabotaged here with a bill that was otherwise totally unacceptable to us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms, though: That's right! Let's hear it for István Happy.]]
u2016-12-12-243	We have a two-minute speech. Happy Congressman Stephen, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-12-12-244	Mr. President. Dear House, [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Watch!]] The truth is, it's a good debate when you argue with people who've seen the mayor of a small town and heard what a small town mayor is doing. I, on the other hand, have practiced this for 20 years, gentlemen and ladies, and the problem is that you say beautiful legends about it, but sometimes, unfortunately, they are far from real. Mr. Benedek Sallai, I'm sorry, but the renovation of road 46 in Szolnok County is very good, let's say, to a small settlement called Kuncsorba and Armenian, so I don't know what you're talking about. [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] Not to mention, they're refurbishing the small settlements. So the renovation of a road involves all residents, even if you don't think so. I would also like to say once again that when the first five-party agreement reached the five-party agreement, it was in the five-party agreement that settlements in any settlement could vary to HUF 200,000 compared to their own budget. Your fellow Member, Mr Sallai, supported this. Interestingly, when this 200 thousand forints, or a little more in two cases, are taken over by the government, you no longer support it. I don't think it's weird. That means they were supposed to vote last year when the government didn't support the wage increase, so to speak, wouldn't have given the money for it. Well, that's a decision to make. Dear Balázs Ander. I understand your fantastic thoughts about self-preservation, but then I don't understand why you're hurting community service where these people are producing. [[György Szilágyi:...you employed them continuously, Pisti!]] And besides, if you knew what it's like to live in a small rural settlement, you'd live there, say, or you'd have a mayor, but in order to do that, let's say, you'd have to vote for the voters to be mayors of a small settlement, then the thing is, you'd know that in small settlements, life is quite different than you say. Our small settlements in Szolnok County, my district of all the small settlements [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's evolved in the past few years. Significant investments have been made and developed. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Then you should have stood up... applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-245	We will now return to the thoughts of the ordinary Members who spoke. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz, please.
u2016-12-12-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Members of the Parliament of Abaúj and Zemplén, I would like to welcome this bill, which provides for an increase in the salaries of the mayors. [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] I live in a constituency with 98 settlements, mostly small settlements of 200, 300 or 400 people. For example, in the Mountains, the smallest city of Hungary is located in Pálháza, barely exceeding 1500 people. We live in the wonderful area of Abaúj and Zemplén, where local governments have very little income on their own, very little self-employment tax. Thus, in the past, there was no possibility for the municipalities to supplement the payment of the heads of the municipalities. These are the city leaders, mayors mentioned by my happy fellow Member, whose activities are extremely diverse. And here I would like to highlight their positive role in the public work programme. And, yes, I see that we may have come to where we were in the 1970s, we all remember the farmhouses in the backyards, that families have become self-sustaining and so have many settlements. We have arrived there, a little back in history, when a school is becoming self-sustaining by not bringing vegetables from multinational companies, but using locally produced vegetables. It's small money, but it means a lot in the maintenance of a small settlement. And I see the effort, for example, in the Bodrogkull, where the local government of Karcsa, emu and other animals were set up, for example, to start a business, which, after a year, produces the result that they can not only have fresh meat for the local government's kitchen, but also sell it. I consider the mayors' activities in this direction to be an important and positive development. And that's why I think it's important that their salary really isn't the same as that of a member of the municipal body or the head of the public work programme. And in particular, in this bill, my fellow Members, I think it is important that the government takes over its financial cover. After all, we have had the opportunity to hijack the salary before, but our small municipalities have not had the opportunity to do so, unfortunately. And I'm glad that the country's economic capacity finally allows us to arrive here. Of course, you could have run or run more, of course you should have started sooner. I would like to tell my fellow Members that I have always been a supporter of my happy fellow Member's proposal in the Group. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin's intervention.]] We need to know, however, that there are not only representatives living in a small settlement in my group, but also larger settlements, and they also have a special interest in it. Obviously, I think it is important to mention that this increase in salaries is very, very important for the management of these municipalities. On behalf of the mayors of Abaúj and Zemplén's small villages and small towns, I would like to thank the government for this opportunity. I think it's definitely a nice Christmas present for them. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-12-247	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP!
u2016-12-12-248	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With all due respect, I don't want to waste your time, but let's just get this pay question straight and see how it is. Thus, before 2014, there was a different regulation, which was determined by multiplying the civil servant's salary base. Then it was not under 500 people, but for settlements with less than 1000 inhabitants with a multiplier of 7-9, to 1000-3000 with a multiplier of 8.5-11, to 3000-10 000 with a multiplier of 11-12. [[18.30]] This meant, dear Mr Happy Member, that the smallest settlements under 1500 could have a gross income of 309 200 HUF. Now, even with the full increase, you will not achieve what was before 2014. Now that I have the 20 percent in my table, so before the TAB decision, this means HUF 199 176 gross in small settlements. If the TAB has passed this amendment, it will increase it by approximately HUF 30,000, so it means that we can push it up to HUF 240,000. [[Interventions from the benches of Fidesz and Jobbik: Almost 300,000 HUF!]] 300,000 forints? [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Yes, 300,000.]] That'll be $300,000. Then we're only 9,000 below it. But my claim that it didn't rise to them is up. The fact that we are reconstructing the pre-2014 conditions for them now, while in the metropolitan districts we are in an increase of almost 300,000, because it has also increased in 10 and now we are giving it another growth. But if the experts on the subject are here, whether Hörcsik or my happy fellow Member, please tell me what professional reason it is based on, let us say, the special highlight and the higher stripe of the metropolitan districts. So in the metropolitan districts, there are 25,000 members of the entire municipality, sorry, the number of the district. The municipalities are rich because they are full of local business tax, they hold offices twice as big or three times the size of offices, but I say again one fact: 2700 municipalities in Hungary have no own source of income, so their income from local business tax does not exist. So if you say that this tying you have done is good, then I agree with what my fellow Member Hörchik is saying. I'm glad you're able to lift it in the small settlement structure. I agree with what my happy fellow Member has to say. But tell me why the county-righted towns and the metropolitan district mayors justify this increase. ? What is the reason for the head of county councils, those over 30,000? They are already earning more right now than they were looking for before 14! As I have introduced or tried to introduce numbers, because it has changed, because it is not now less than 1000 people, but from 500 to 500 to 1500 people, while there in that item, it is not completely, if 300 thousand is gross, then it is not possible to completely reconstruct the 309 200 before 14. So why don't you guys explain this to me when there are expert politicians here? What justifies this in the metropolitan districts? What is the reason why there should not be an increase in small settlements, but only to reconstruct the pre-14 state? I'd expect an answer to that with respect, because I'm persuasive, by the way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-249	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. Congresswoman Loránt Violin, Jobbik, here you go.
u2016-12-12-250	Thank you very much. Our happy fellow Member has just spoken about the pace at which the side roads leading to small settlements are being renewed. Imagine, let me tell you a story: a recent hearing by Minister Seszta in the Committee on Budgets, who complained in front of the committee about how terrible his situation is, that when he is in Northern Hungary, he must go to the highlands of Slovakia, because the side roads in Hungary are so bad. And this man is the Minister of Development in Hungary today, who is also responsible for the maintenance and renovation of roads. Now, my fellow Member Hörcsik has made a broken confession here before us. It was very good to listen, and I'll tell you honestly, when you said how bad the proposal that the Fidesz government submitted a year ago was, because, as I said, you would have put all the burdens, all the responsibilities on small town mayors or small settlement municipalities, who would otherwise not have been able to meet this task. I would have missed one more, my honourable fellow Member Hörcsik, to explain why he had not then voted in favour of the proposal that we had tabled at the time, which would have covered this small part of the sentence entitled "Acquisition of My Own Revenue." That would have been the point, if you hadn't had a budget, you could've pushed this extra resource in. Why didn't you do it? I'm asking you, for the sake of brotherhood, why didn't you do that when you knew so well what was going on there? I have one more thing to say for the record: I was thinking, of course, of Summerfather. Tax power would have been the answer to all of your problems for my fellow Member of the LMP, but we did not get an answer to that from the Secretary of State. It was meant to be included in the budget law and that it would be regulated in this way. Just so there's no such disproportion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I wonder what's going on. Secretary of State, please respond. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Interjection: That's right!]]
u2016-12-12-251	Happy Congressman István, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-12-12-252	I would like to say to Congressman Sallai that the mayor will earn more than in the previous term over 500 people. Feel free to calculate after 20 years in a settlement that was between 500 and 1500; it will make a lot more money, and my mayor will be pleased when I boasted that it might be something if you will support it. Then he was very happy that his salary was rising significantly. So it's only in the settlements below 500 people that you say we're not sure we're going to reach that level, but we're not sure that there were nine and a half times the mayor in every settlement over 500. Because it was also dependent on the body of representatives and the proportion of work. So I think that it is still important for me to support this bill in tomorrow's vote, because there is a great need for local mayors not only to recognise their work morally, but also financially, and I think that this is a good bill. It is precisely time to accept this and to settle wages as of 1 January. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-253	Thank you. Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP, two minutes.
u2016-12-12-254	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say one number to my happy fellow Member. There are 328 mayors in Hungary who may not be able to reach the first 14 people, these are under 500 people. I think this is a number that should be dealt with in order to honour so many city leaders, even in the most disadvantaged situation, the smallest settlement leaders working on the worst conditions, whether they are so honored or not. It's the Parliament's decision. Thank you.
u2016-12-12-255	Thank you. As a representative asking for a normal word, Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz!
u2016-12-12-256	Thank you for the floor. As a single MEP in Budapest, I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, that a mayor in the metropolitan district is responsible for the regularity and financing of a budget of HUF 5-20 billion depending on the population of the district. On the other hand, my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict probably avoided the amendment of the law - which was already in this cycle - that the mayors of the metropolitan district were also representatives of the general assembly in the capital, for which they were not otherwise paid or received a separate remuneration, which is included in their mayor's salary. And by the way, I think that the mayor of a metropolitan district has a very, very big responsibility, I'm telling you, the budget is about 5-20 billion, I think XI. The district and the 14th and 13th may still be over 20 billion forints, and therefore they are fully responsible. The offices, as far as I can remember, are over 70-80 people in every district, but some of them are over 200-250 people. Therefore, there is also a great deal of work to be done by the mayors of the metropolitan district, for which I believe they should be paid in the bill. Other: I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, that the lawyers in Budapest are always mentioned. That's what I think I am, but right now, the law is gonna have to stop. But believe me, my fellow Member, there are also around 6,000 lawyers in Budapest, who are among them who know about agriculture. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-12-257	Thank you, too. I would like to draw the attention of Congressman Vas to the fact that he does not feel very lonely, I am sitting here as a representative in Budapest. [[Defiance.]] I'll talk to you later. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a normal word as a suitor.
u2016-12-12-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much, Congressman Vas, for sharing your thoughts with us. First of all, I would like to say that I have great respect for Mr Vas, because he always takes all the dirt away from Fidesz, and that is a modest and humble man, and I have my respect for him. So please don't disrespect my question, but when you say that you are responsible for the regularity of 10-15-20 billion forints, please tell me how this compliance manifests itself. Antal Rogán, I see you're at large. So, overall, the real estate dogs that run in the metropolitan districts, in District I, how much friends get apartments, I don't know what that responsibility is about. 'Cause if I saw that, I could obviously consider it. Besides, I didn't know how this metropolitan government membership was, but I respectfully wonder, do you leave during work hours? So this is what the Tarlos advertises when the mayors go off the clock in their spare time? [[18.40]] 'Cause then, obviously, they deserve something extra. But if this may fit into their working time and their job obligation is to participate in the work of the Metropolitan Municipality, then it may not be justified, let's say, for all other settlements over 30 thousand. If Congressman sees the difference between the 25 grand, the 28 grand metropolitan district and the 250 grand, doesn't he think that the responsibility of the two types of mayor is different? Because then the same question arises: why is it that the mayors of the metropolitan districts are not simply included in the wage based on the number of souls? So what's the reason? More subways? I'm telling you, I understand everything if you explain to me, I'm willing to learn these things. At the moment, I wanted to draw attention to this because I don't see this responsibility in anything. Once I see that they've taken a member of the municipal council of the metropolitan district in a bracelet, or even a mayor who had something to do with, say, real estate, rent-in-room and public procurement and all that sort of thing, then I'll believe that responsibility, so I'll be respectful of the mayors of the smaller settlements, where there's no business, no substantial public procurement, no local business tax, and all the trouble and trouble of all the public workers, and all the misery of all the poor people on the people's backs necks. I wanted to talk about this injustice because I basically see in the municipality of the metropolitan districts what human resources are available there and in what number, and I see the small settlements, what it is like there, and I'm sure my indignities were most focused on that. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-12-12-259	Thank you. Two-minute speech by Congressman Ander, Jobbik.
u2016-12-12-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very pleased when my happy fellow Member said that everything was all right in Szolnok County. You must be on Tiszaroff on Tiszabura every happy, sunshine. The thing is, in Somogy County, mayors of small towns there have some problems to deal with. Some settlements have broken down complete street lines. Who do you think they are? Then, this year, for example, 39 kilometers of public roads will be renovated from 1,700 kilometers, surely because all the others are in such good condition that only 30 kilometers need to be renovated. Then there is a small settlement where the very well-functioning school was closed - this is Nikla; a riddle for my fellow Member, which of our poets we can tie to Nikla - and the renovation of the boiler, which led to the closure of this school and to the destruction of the village's future, should have been three million forints; some of these Gucci rickets, and I don't know what kind of bag, Rogán's bag, could have easily solved the budget for this. There are settlements in the constituency where I live, where there are 20 hectares of land per capita, yet on the national unemployment podium this small settlement is distinguished. I wonder why. Because they created circumstances, my honourable fellow Member, in more than six years that led to or at least could not solve them; only in order to nuance the picture, I was obliged to note this. Thank you very much for your truly honored attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-261	And I'm asking if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Secretary Tibor Pogácsás, please.
u2016-12-12-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As the debate indicated, it is a very important issue that has been set out and it has become clear that there have been strong arguments from both the opposition and the government side, both in favour of the positions that have been taken and in favour of the bill that has now been tabled. It is true that the government has decided that the amendment of the budget law will not happen today, but at the same time as Annex IX. Chapter III contains a resource that is available to enable municipalities to receive the necessary support at the rate of their own tax power in the next year's budget, so that the government will ensure this. Thank you very much to those who supported this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the laws necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur and, in the name of the rapporteur, to Mr Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, About everyone is aware of the proposal that Mr András Schiffer, our group leader, has made regularly before this House, and I believe that by his departure from Parliament, we should again and again address the maladministration that Fidesz-KDNP has consistently committed in the Hungarian Parliament since 2010 in a rather hypocritical way, and we should be accountable for all of this. I think we all know - if not by our own parents, at the turn of the century, through relatives born in the 30s, 40s and 50s - how the crimes of the communist period and of the 45 years of socialism stamp on our daily lives. To date, the key element of everyday political mood, everyday political reasoning, everyday political position is the impact of these communist years on Hungarian society, and it is certainly also a matter of vital importance from the point of view of political position what is happening, what injustices, indecents and crimes have occurred in this case. This whole criminalisation process, which started in Hungary after the end of World War II, but mainly from the beginning of the 1950s, was obviously a multitude of steps that would determine Hungary's mood for the long term, and I believe that Hungary should choose the policy of facing. Faced with Nazi Germany, facing war crimes, facing each nation's own responsibility on a pile of issues, helped to cope with the historical trauma, the family traumas that did not go out of Hungarian public life and Hungarian politics until now. It follows that a reprehensible sin for the governments following the regime change, that this opposition did not try to achieve it, did not try to do everything in order for the Hungarian society to know those persons, to know the events of who and how they served that oppression, those social injustices, those crimes, in particular, even communist crimes that have happened. [[István Szávay is replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]] I believe that in Hungarian society, too, very, very many people were involved in those years without having to be afraid and dare to face those decades, but we have to face those who may have caused our fathers, uncles and grandparents a lot of misery, and, like us, there are an amazing number of others in Hungarian society who carry these traumas. For most of the time, therefore, the Group of Possibly Other Politics asks the Hungarian Parliament to create the possibility for the Hungarian society to learn about the past related to state security, information systems, espionage and snitch activity. Make it possible from the Hungarian archives to learn the data that would help you process that trauma. Most of them may have attended celebrations on the occasion of the anniversary of the 1956 commemorative year, as well as on the occasion of the memory of the gulag - the commemorative year of the people who were taken to the Málenkaj robot - there were very, very many of us at celebrations where we could meet the sufferers of these, who had to come home from somewhere. Clearly, it is not the need for hatred but the need for truth to face what has happened in these years. The need to be able to deal with what has been done to him at the end of his life or in his last decades can help people to deal with what has been done in the 20th century. The century created for Hungarian society. [[18.50]] I think it is in our best interest that the past of state security be transparent, that it is in our best interest that these files are finally made public, and, if at worst, but what happens is that in those seriously affected cases the action may be accompanied by the consequences of exclusion from public life, it can be undertaken in order for Hungarian society to look to a better future. We truly believe that the change of regime is not completed until then, and that there is no such thing as XX. The end of the century, as long as these files are hidden, and as long as the former snitches and snitches are among us, they will never be able to face those who have been betrayed. We are asking the Honourable Parliament to create this opportunity, and we ask that the Fidesz-KDNP, which, either in the past or from 89 onwards, has repeatedly stood up and spoken for such principles at a young age, should come to us a little bit more of themselves then and try to create the opportunity for our efforts to achieve results. I call on my fellow Members of Parliament and Parliament to do so. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-12-12-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. The waiting is due to some experience, so then Mr István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-266	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The expectation was that I wanted to believe that the two representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP present, including Congressman Vas, who knew everything and could talk to everything. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I just signed up.]] On this issue, you may inform us why Fidesz is likely to run away from this proposal in a cowardly and unacceptable way. We are slowly in domestic competition with the representatives of the LMP - perhaps they are a bit winning - about how many groups are submitting proposals, legislative amendments, resolution proposals that would try to get the House to face a corner of the communist past, and in particular the national, conservative, civil and Christian almost two thirds, unfortunately, to continue to fail. The Jobbik will naturally support the proposal this time, as in the previous twelve times. As rapporteur, my fellow Member Sallai has quite well formulated the ideas that we see ourselves and we ourselves would consider important, in particular, to close the past 26 years after the change of regime, to finally face communism, to see who were the ones who operated the system from the background, who made the network, who snitched, who ruined the lives of hundreds of families and thousands of families. Here's to publicizing the agent files to see who the snitches were, see who they were, who ruined the lives of a lot of families, a lot of people. I think it is amazing, although the Socialist Party has not yet made a statement, but on the basis of previous votes, we have come to the point that the Hungarian Socialist Party, the successor of the MSZMP, supports the face-to-face with the past, supports the disclosure of agent files, which you continue to systematically sabotage. I think it's a shame. And they don't even have the courage to talk about it here for at least two minutes. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-267	You won't believe who applied to speak, by the way, a few moments after you asked for the floor. So I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz. [[István Szávay: I will follow you, Congressman.]]
u2016-12-12-268	Thank you for the floor. As I recall, I spoke to the predecessors of this bill. The Fidesz fraction does not support the inclusion of the bill in a series of subjects, and I will also explain why, as before, otherwise. From the Justice Committee, I'm sure I'm the only one here. On 30 November, we listened to the president of the National Remembrance Committee - by the way, the whole body was there - where the chairman of the committee said that there was no list of agents. So what the bill is based on doesn't exist in this form. And the president of the National Remembrance Committee also said that they are working on getting to know the stories. So it's not the agent, it's what the agent was doing as one of the Secret Service guys in the III/III, because it's more important. I mean, there's also a guy who signed a registration form, and then there's this guy who doesn't report, and then he signs up again, but he doesn't report again. I think there may be agreement that it is more important to learn stories, and this bill is not based on this. So we do not support the inclusion in the series of articles, because it is inadequate for the Parliament to discuss this in substance. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-12-269	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Sallai R. Benedek, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Yes.]] Here you go. You have two minutes.
u2016-12-12-270	If you don't mind, Mr. President, I'd like to take that opportunity. Thank you very much for the floor. The only thing you can tell me, even after this opportunity, is the risks to the adoption and inclusion of this legislation if there is no list of agents. Then we can go into the national archives without further ado, and without further ado, we have the opportunity to open them. Because if the series of articles is launched, there is still the possibility that Fidesz-KDNP will be able to use either an amendment or an additional proposal. But at the moment, with all due respect, this argument is pathetic, because they practically owe it to Hungarian society, they owe it to our parents, our grandparents, our relatives. It just doesn't make sense why they don't want to pay their debt. What right-wing government do they claim to be, what Christian government, representing conservative values, how can they claim to be able to oppose any conflict with the former communist regime if these sinners are concealed? It's a collaborating attitude. This is the attitude when they become a part of the sin that they have committed by refusing to disclose, even though they have this information at their disposal. I would ask my fellow Members, who are politicalising in Fidesz-KDNP, to consider their fate, whether this is what they expect from their constituents. This is the expectation of those who vote for Fidesz-KDNP, so that you, with such voting behaviour, can block the opposition effort that we are already trying to bring to Parliament, as my fellow Member Savay pointed out. I would ask you to vote in favour of this series of articles tomorrow, and to create the opportunity for the Hungarian society to finally close the regime change at some point, although it seems that the Hungarian regime change will be closed once and for all if we expel the parties involved, who have been hiding the criminals of the previous 45 years for 26 years. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-271	I would like to inform you, Your Honour, that the decision will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the necessary government action on the dispute resolution rules of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada H/12783. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. First, I will give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek represents the authors. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-272	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Canadian Free Trade Agreement is practically the decisive step forward in free trade when we lay the foundations for transatlantic cooperation. Whoever deals with this can broadly monitor CETA, which is the free trade agreement with Canada and the TTIP agreement with the United States. CETA is roughly the forerunner of TTIP, and therefore we see the pursuit of transatlantic cooperation, i.e. the economic cooperation between North America and the European Union, which creates the opportunity for the governments to break down borders and to allow trade through free trade to take a green road that can crush everything, run over society, villages, municipalities, agriculture, and represent trade as a primary consideration as a new god. Because let's face it, all the relevant parts of the Free Trade Agreement clearly examine everything from a commercial point of view. If we look specifically at CETA, we see what regulations it contains, for example, in terms of biotechnology. [[19.00]] The CETA contains, in a textual way, the fact that the contracting parties break down the obstacles to biotechnology, the legal obstacles to its development, in order to give way. This means that the commercial interest in selling genetically manipulated propagating material becomes more important than the interest of wanting to replace the safety of human health or the self-determination of a nation. Now, the issue of the dispute resolution mechanism of this whole is, to this day, practically in an independent court system, in an arbitration system, removing the details of this agreement from the competence of the national state, from the competence of the nations, and creating the possibility for a body that practically applies or interprets the law independent of Hungary to decide whether or not we are acting in accordance with the framework of the agreement. The CETA, we think - and the May Other Politics has stood up for this from the beginning, because we have also partly initiated a debate day on free trade agreements - has a bad impact on Hungarian society. We do not believe that free trade can bring Hungary, but we are concerned that it can take, and even more so, by means of capitalism colonization, it can create the possibility that Hungary's rural population and economy will be the loser of this entire free trade system. Therefore, if the Fidesz-KDNP, by kicking up national interests and betraying the Hungarian countryside, has decided to authorise the Government in a parliamentary decision to start negotiations on this and take the necessary steps to ratify it, then the minimum is to choose in the dispute settlement mechanism solutions in which we can adequately defend the principles of legal certainty that have been achieved by national legislation. We can protect food safety, we can protect our small and medium-sized enterprises, we can protect the Hungarian countryside, we can protect agriculture and we can protect all our food-producing sectors against lower and cheaper food. [[István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]] So the inclusion in this series of articles would create the possibility of opening up this issue within the framework of the Parliament and finding a solution to which the Fidesz-KDNP has already committed itself at some level, as it has been said on several occasions in the debate of the parliamentary resolution on ratification that this cannot remain so and that action is being taken on this matter. We are doing nothing but to confirm this promise in the form of a parliamentary decision, by guaranteeing that the government, whatever government comes next, will respect and continue these negotiation processes and negotiations, with the task of ratifying the nation, in order to guarantee that a dispute settlement mechanism will be set up to meet the interests of the nation and of the Hungarian society. To this end, we ask with respect the unanimous support of our fellow Members in Fidesz-KDNP and opposition. We think that this is the minimum that needs to be done after the enforced decision, after the continuation of CETA, in order to raise a little bit more safety conditions. We ask your support for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, as on the previous agenda, one representative per group may speak in 2-2 minutes, and the first independent Member, but one should come in. So I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to tell me. [[For signal:]] On behalf of the Group of the LMP, Mr István Ikotity, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of a proposal for a decision by the LMP, the Parliament would oblige the Government to initiate the investigation by the European Court of Justice of the compatibility of the most controversial element of CETA, the dispute settlement procedure of the agreement with the EU Treaties, whether the permanent judicial system and the limitation of the regulatory autonomy of the parties do not constitute an infringement of the competences of the Union or of the Member States. It represents many, many negative things that CETA and TTIP can create at all, and my fellow Member Sallai has just said about this. These risks must also be borne by the society of Hungary. The idea of protecting our common values, our common interests, our citizens and our fellow citizens cannot be abandoned by the Parliament, which is what this resolution proposal is about. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-275	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik!
u2016-12-12-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably not surprise you by telling you that the Jobbik Group supports the LMP's application for inclusion in the case of CETA. After all, we ourselves have raised our voice on numerous occasions both with the free trade agreement with Canada or with the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada and with the TTIP, because we also consider that CETA is the hallway of TTIP and that the dangers that it presents to our country can be even more complete in the case of TTIP. At the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I was the one who stood by the proposal and regretted the fact that my fellow Members were unable to give a meaningful answer to the points raised there. Clearly, there is a support position on your side. Last week, when we listened to Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó on the Committee, he said that there were debates within the lines of Fidesz and KDNP on this matter, for example, the ICS, which is the renamed version of ICDS, on the dispute settlement mechanism, but also on the GMO exemption. But the result, as the government clearly stands for, is that you support this agreement which is extremely detrimental to our country, to our national self-determination, to our GMO-free, to our food safety, to the workers' side. When Gábor Staudt and I presented a written question on this matter, unfortunately, there was also a very cynical response from Minister Szijjártó. This is exactly what we would have wanted at least the government to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union. But this did not happen, and the Minister referred to the position of the European Parliament's legal service. In the last row, he noted that overall, everything was in order with this convention. Jobbik sees this in a completely different way, and we will continue to do everything in our power to put the government under pressure, and to express our strong opinion at every possible forum, and to defend our country's GMO-freeness and sovereignty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-12-12-277	Thank you. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz!
u2016-12-12-278	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 November, the Committee on European Affairs did not refer to this motion with 1 vote and 5 votes against. I would like to briefly inform my fellow Members of the arguments on which the committee finally decided to reject the motion of Members on the subject. Well, the Parliament adopted on 11 October 2016, 22/2016. by decision of the Parliament on the aspects that it considers important in relation to the signing of CETA. Neither before nor at that time has the need to refer the case to the European Court of Justice. The Committee on European Affairs also concluded that the grounds for the proposal for a decision are superficial, as it refers to certain legal analyses, but does not specify any of them. Contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement, however, it is the reality, honourable Members, that the European Court of Justice has adopted Article 1/91 on the EEA Treaties. It stated in its opinion No.3 that if an international treaty establishes a judicial system, it is compatible with Community law. And among the reasons for rejecting the proposal for a decision, I would also like to refer to the opinion of the legal service of that European Parliament on 1 June stating that the investor court system of CETA appears to be compatible with the EU's treaties. This motion was therefore voted against in the European Parliament. On the basis of the above, we did not support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-12-279	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Sallai R. Benedek, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-12-12-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I may, I would react very briefly. First of all, I would like to thank my right-wing fellow Members and the faction for their support for this series of things. I would also like to tell President Richard Hörcsik, my fellow Member, the simple fact that this June the Hungarian Parliament adopted a parliamentary resolution. We remember that this was the decision recorded by András Schiffer; it is easy to remember because there are too many not in the system of national cooperation to include something from opposition to a series of subjects. So it was clear that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian countryside, created barriers to the conclusion of agreements outside the EU Member States contrary to the interests of Hungarian society. [[19.10]] On the other hand, in my opinion, the Hungarian Parliament's Fideszes-KDNP majority adopted a decision authorising the government at the beginning of autumn this year. Of course, until now, there was no need for this proposal for a resolution, which we have just tabled, since until then we thought that Parliament would say something and respect it. Now, obviously, he does not respect his own word, and he does not give a damn about his own parliamentary decision, and that is why we now see reason to use an additional provision to at least ensure that we can protect the interests of the Hungarian economy in this way. Now, what my fellow Member Hörcsik, Mr President, said, namely, whether it is compatible with Community law to establish private courts in such cases, does not mean that what is compatible with European Union law is compatible with the interests of the Hungarian people. In European Union law, however, there are a number of cases where we find regulations that do not represent the interests of Hungarian society, and it is the responsibility of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament to protect Hungarian society from such exposure and such international free trade pressure. That is why we need it, and it is therefore necessary for the Parliament to adopt such a resolution, because the Union will not protect us if we do not want to defend ourselves. I need your support for this. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-12-12-281	Dear Parliament, I will inform everyone, every representative present, that, according to the house rules, one representative per faction can speak in a total of two minutes. The Fidesz fraction has already taken advantage of this, Congressman, please understand. Now, as the rapporteur has already reflected, all that remains on the agenda is to tell you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/12843 on strengthening the National Rural Strategy. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame, to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! There has been a rather interesting situation with Jobbik submitting a proposal for a decision to strengthen the national rural strategy adopted by the government and at least supported by the governing parties in words. I do not do this for the first time: on 21 March 2012 the Fidesz government adopted this strategy at a government meeting, and then I was forced to submit it to the Parliament in December 2014, April 2016 and November 2016, during which we now got to the point that, while at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, it was rejected by the pro-government representatives on their own rural strategy, but we are now able to talk about it for a few minutes with the opportunity of this house rule. Why did we, Jobbiks, consider it important to discuss the strengthening of the rural strategy in front of the Parliament? In 2010, when we were fresh members of the Parliament, we, Jobbikos, were sure that Fidesz and I were going to have a lot of debates with the government side, because we often think differently about the world, we have different values, we come from a different medium, and we have a completely different vision, but somehow I felt that this might be the area where the government side, the Fidesz-KDNP representatives and the better-looking Members would not be much of a debate. Why did I think that naively at the time? After all, during the period of the Balliberal Governments, we agreed, pro-government and right-handers, that the countryside had fallen into a neglected state, that it had not been given sufficient emphasis on the part of the current governments, that it had not received enough resources or government attention. You in the opposition have still very much demanded this lack of attention and this lack of resources, and have tried to draw attention to this problem as often as possible, as we have done better, then only as a future Member. I also thought of this because József Ángyán marked the national rural strategy, and at the time of his undersecretary of state, there were quite a number of speeches from his part in Parliament, or some materials that we could agree with as a betterman. This rural strategy is also ahead of us because, for example, such sentences say that Hungary is able to produce more food than it consumes, so agriculture should be treated as a strategic sector; we deeply agree with it. Moreover, it contains sentences that the production of good quality, locally produced, healthy, GMO-free Hungarian food and the dissemination of it to citizens as widely as possible are also the aims of this rural strategy. Well, let's see, it's locally produced. It was just today that the destruction of Kishantos was once again a topic, where we learned as a good sample how to produce this particular food in organic and ecological conditions. GMO-free. We were talking about CETA in the previous debate, and here, too, they face what was laid out in their own strategy. If we move to Hungarian food, then let us ask ourselves honestly what it means for the government today to distribute Hungarian food in the world: it supports the expansion of a narrow economic elite's products practically Szijjártó when it flies through the world. Let's check a number or two while I still have time. According to the Minister, the national rural strategy aims to increase the number of people employed in agriculture from the current 430 thousand to 700,000. It's been six years. How we'd be happy if this number of 430 grand was even true! Not only would we have raised this number to 700,000, but it has decreased significantly. The government wanted to increase the 21,6 percent share of young farmers to 30 percent; we would now welcome this 21,6 percent. The percentage of local products would be increased to 20%; I can tell you about stagnation here. The only item that has been achieved is the around HUF 600-700 billion that you want to spend on rural development and agricultural support in this EU term, but on the one hand it is not up to you, and on the other hand, we have argued a lot between the walls of this House on the other hand about who will actually receive this HUF 600-700 billion, because it is not to those who would otherwise be the subject of a national rural strategy, i.e. family farmers. It is also mentioned here that Minister Fazekas is explaining here about the scandal with Mr Ángyán State Secretary that this is the same rural strategy and that we do not need to bring it to the House, because it is going on, it is going on and it is working. Please invite József Ángyán to ask him if his rural strategy really works and is taking place. So for these reasons, I would ask briefly that Parliament discuss this matter. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-283	Thank you very much. As before, one representative per group of Members may speak in 2-2 minutes and an independent representative in 2 minutes. I will ask the honourable Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP!
u2016-12-12-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear colleague Zoltán Magyar, I would like to thank the Jobbik faction for allowing us to renegotiate the national rural strategy within the framework of the Hungarian Parliament, since, in fact, Fidesz-KDNP, who has been the most deceived of the Hungarian countryside and the most lied about it, wanted to implement what it has accomplished, is roughly the national rural strategy that best points out. If we look only at indicator table 9 of the national rural strategy, it will always point out that Fidesz-KDNP has gone in the opposite direction to everything it has ever undertaken, so that this is brought in here and recorded in the form of a parliamentary decision, I find it impossible. I do not want to discourage my fellow Hungarian Member, but this has failed in all indicators at the moment. So it is about the category of entertainment that we see in the national rural strategy, let us say, the increase in the proportion of organic farming areas, and at the same time here today Sándor Fazekas, with a Fidesz representative, rejoices at how good it is that Kishantos was destroyed. So that's pretty much the category of shame and shame. If you look at all the indicators, regarding forest frying, the size of organic manure-treated production areas in a thousand hectares, there is virtually no livestock stock, no litter manure; you could look at the watercourses of good ecological status, there are virtually a multitude of pollutants; if you look at education, employment, if you look at the amount of land in the management of national park boards in hectares, which you wanted to increase from 288 thousand to 430,000, and you wanted to take what was, then you went in the opposite direction of everything that was in the strategy. This strategy is the biggest evidence of the lie and failure of Fidesz-KDNP's rural policy [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Because that's what points to failure in its indicators. We will, of course, support the inclusion in the series. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-285	Thank you very much. Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz! [[19.20]]
u2016-12-12-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the solo before me, only that perhaps Robert Sallai still has a few months to understand that the sun doesn't rise because the rooster is crowing, but because the rooster is crowing because the sun is rising. We can't expect that from a congressman who thinks we need to dump the manure on the asphalt. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to look at the past, the decades since the change of regime. There has never been such support in agriculture as this government did at the time. As long as you... [[R. Benedek Sallai: Lőrinc Mészáros and Sándor Csányi.]] Robert Sallai should only talk about the collapsed mill and the stolen money. I believe you want him to have as much money as Lawrence Butcher, but you don't have to steal it, you have to build it. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Where's 2.6 billion?]] Ladies and gentlemen, If nothing else, the rural development programme received a grant of HUF 1200 billion. The proportion of large plants and the conversion structure, the 30-70 percent, meant not to destroy large plants, but to allow them to survive, to grow stronger, but also to grow small plants. With regard to public land leases, the obligation to keep livestock is exemplary: in Europe or in the world, the Government, the Minister, is looking forward to the efforts made to protect GMOs. There has never been a GMO protection like this in recent decades. Nébih: they didn't even know very many, even in the Committee on Agriculture, but the population is especially or producers of what the Nébih means. Nébih is doing so much work and energy to provide Hungarian producers with opportunities and remove food of uncertain origin from the markets, precisely in the hope that Hungarian producers will be given the opportunity. The fact that you're tearing up in Parliament because of Jobbik and LMP Kishantos, and because of that, you have to account for it with your own conscience, I think. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2016-12-12-287	Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik!
u2016-12-12-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We in Jobbik are like the serfs of Széchenyi Pölöskei for 200 years with the work Credit when they got into a dispute with the largest Hungarian. We also want to catch the golden words that have been written in this document. The problem is that we do not see much of these, because the Hungarian reforms of Fidesz simply do not work in a large part of the Hungarian countryside. If they were to function, the small population retention force would not be reduced year after year, if it were to function, then as a sinking Atlantis, the whole walk would not be absorbed, if it were to function, the built environment would not be eroded in parallel to social destruction, nor would the number of houses with fallen fences with fallen walls be increased. You are visiting from Bel-Pest, the Buda fork district, some of the modern islands and the kleptocrat buddies and Zrt.-Döbölik estate centers. We reply, however, that 60 ancient Hungarian settlements lost 30 percent of their population between the last two censuses, and the administratively not independent, but they can reach the fate of Kakpuszta and Somogyszentimre, which is an irreplaceable part of the Hungarian past, but which was recently extinct. The Latin Americanization of the countryside, the sociocultural reservation, the egestivity in North-East Hungary or South-Transdanubia are the reality of everyday life. Of course, government party puppies don't come to this place, if they do, they'll fly over it by helicopter like Comrade Czinege did in the woods of Kasó. The sad and non-Mobony reality was summarized by an otherwise pro-government rural mayor: mathematics is the only thing that matters to major politics, so they don't care about villages where few people live. We believe that if the nation is an oak, it is the root of the land, but it is time to move on, because this root is chewed by worms. Thank you for your attention. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-12-12-289	I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Magyar, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-12-12-290	I'd like to respond to my Pudgy fellow Member. Yes, there has never been so much money in the Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside, our problem is who receives these funds. [[János Pócs: Simicska. He spends it on bread.]] Forints 600-700 billion could solve the problems that my fellow Member Ander talked about, for example, so that they could be solved and the Hungarian countryside would not be destroyed. The fact that it shouldn't be stolen, it should be created and built, and that it should be used in the same sentence in conjunction with the Butcher Gunner? That's pretty amazing. But I don't think I'm gonna have to do this anymore. Why do we want this rural strategy to end up here? We are halfway through, in principle, it was announced in 2010 and will last until 2020. I feel that the Hungarian Parliament deserves so much respect and respect for the rural population, because the majority of the Hungarian population is a rural population, so that we can talk about their problem here and see what it looks like beyond the half-time of the implementation of the strategy that affects them most. All I have to do is mention the ground privatization. The national rural strategy also includes the fact that the Hungarian state must be more present on the domestic land market, and the proportion of public land must be increased. Compared to this, they sold them all, practically the forests remained, a certain part of the nature reserves, everything else sold, privatized. [[János Pócs: For Hungarian farmers.]] They're going straight to the bottom of the table. If what they're saying is true and there's nothing wrong with the rural strategy, then you have to bring it here, there's nothing to be afraid of. If I'm right, if we're right, righties, there's nothing to be afraid of, because here in Parliament they can prove that what we say is not real. Bring him here, let's talk about it. They are supposed to complete this strategy by 2020, as it is so far. Really, if we are doing well on a pro rata basis, dare to bring it here, let us discuss how we stand on the issue of employment, the issue of animal numbers, or the development of rural sustainability at all. Dare bring him here, let's talk about him. There's gonna be time for this next semester, and I'm gonna encourage you to have some courage. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-291	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the draft amendment before the final vote and the final vote on the draft law amending certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection. Government referral T/12733. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/1273/14. T/127331.15. can be found on the network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-12-12-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12733 on the 8th of December 2016. Article 54 of the House Rules provides for a bill amending certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection. It adopted by 30 votes in favour, no votes against, a report before the final vote with 4 abstentions and an amendment before the final vote. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment contained in the background document, which was presented by the government, which had just presented the final vote. The aim of the proposal is to give the right time to establish compliance with the strict rules on telephone customer services. 60 days from the publication of the law in the summary amendment proposal, instead of the deadline for entry into force, the relevant part of the law will enter into force on 1 September 2017, if this is adopted tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, The spread of fast and high bandwidth internet access not only leads to an increase in the number of Internet users, but is also an important tool for boosting the economy, so I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-12-12-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have speeches from Members. The political groups will be able to speak in five minutes, with independent representatives speaking in a total of three minutes. First, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-294	Mr President, Dear House, We are living in the exceptional case of a better pressure to pass through a better amendment, and when it comes to the issue of consumer protection, we must always say that this government actually bled out, and it is therefore to be welcomed that it is now taking action in the opposite direction with a gesture. Today I have had the opportunity to confront President Matolcsy with how they killed consumer protection at the Hungarian National Bank, some of which have been integrated into the organization that they are able to identify shortcomings that they would not have in the case of a well-functioning PSZEF, let us say. [[19.30]] In this case, we could talk about some discussion around the fines, we could have shown further courage here; and it was a better motion and a better intention not only to blacklist the company or web shop or online company in case of second abuse, but also to have consequences for the first similar event. Whether it is a virtual blackpoint system with quotes, it would be very easy to make an online customer feel that the service provider has already committed a kind of abuse. The proposal draws a sharp line between mild, in fact administrative and serious offences, and there is obviously a basis for this separation. At the same time, we must say that the administrative rules must also be respected, so we must help consumers and consumers to get better informed in everything. For this reason, I see no reason that, in the case of a one-off offence, there is at least a signal value, if not a serious hundreds of thousands, but the blacklist concerned shows that there is a problem with a particular web store or online store. What I continue to miss is the presentation of attached companies, associations with similar ownership or similar activities compared to companies appearing on the blacklist. In fact, this would require only a more complex matrix, but there would be no technical obstacle, and it would not in principle be an obstacle to the fact that if one company sells fake medicines on the Internet, then the other three or four companies who try to abuse consumer confidence in the same way should be listed. Obviously, therefore, if this government has already bled out most of the consumer protection, it should at least show courage with regard to such little things and a little more willingness to compromise, regardless of whether, of course, I support the direction of the proposal myself. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-12-295	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development asked for the floor. Here.
u2016-12-12-296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was my intention, my intention, to say the closing today, so it would be advisable to say it at the end of the speeches by its representatives. I wanted to say that not before the vote, if you give me the opportunity, I would rather say it now.
u2016-12-12-297	All right, Mr. Secretary, although in this case, these two may coincide in seconds, as no one has applied. It is my duty to ask if anyone else would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Secretary of State, you can stand up again. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-298	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you for the fact that in recent weeks we have been able to discuss consumer protection issues from a number of perspectives and it has become clear to all of you that, from this autumn period, the government will focus on e-commerce issues throughout the following year. There seems to be a difference of opinion with my fellow Members, but that is not a problem, as the coming months will still be able to conclude or discuss these debates precisely. The point is that in our approach we have proposed radical and decisive steps, but at the same time we are also trying to take into account the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and the protection of Hungarian shopping families. It was our basis, and I would like to refer to this briefly, that, in terms of consumer protection, the booming increase in online shopping and online shopping makes it necessary to prevent problems as far as possible, partly by raising awareness and partly by legal means. Such legal instruments are included in the bill before us. But I would like to point out that this bill is not just about this, and I would like to point out that the Government supports the adoption of the amendment before the final vote, so that the provisions of the bill, which we intend to do, can be implemented more effectively. This is one of the elements of the bill. In the parliamentary debate, there was less talk of it in this sense, but it is very important that the provisions of the proposal concerning electronic communications serve the government's broadband development goals effectively. I would like to point out that we are in the middle of a great deal of work, since in the coming period we will be developing a network of some 50,000 kilometres. For more than 10,000 miles of this, we will be laying a completely new line. This is the so-called super-fast internet network, the programme for the roll-out of the broadband internet network in Hungary, which we would like to close at the end of 2018 with the possibility that the Hungarian family will be able to connect to this network through various service providers. This implementation - everyone can think about it - requires coordinated work by property owners, public authorities, utility service providers and communications service providers. This bill, which we are discussing and discussed in the previous weeks, provides a framework for better cooperation between all of us, these actors, thereby accelerating development. This is how the current bill contributes to the objective I have just mentioned to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore refer, in conclusion, to the fact that the consumer protection part of this proposal strengthens consumer rights in electronic commerce, and we are determined, as far as possible, to go ahead with and, if we experience it, to deal with the problems that arise in relation to explosive online commerce. In that sense, I refer to it, although the term is not very fortunate, but it is determined that it exists, so we have the Blacklist's plan. This will work next year; I would like to refer to what the Member before me has to say. At the same time, it is indeed a dilemma as to how we judge companies of an administrative nature and serious infringements. In our view, it is necessary to judge in different ways, to give administrative error firms the opportunity to correct it; and companies who commit serious infringements must be named in this sense, so that customers know exactly who is worth avoiding, who is not worth buying from, who is worth protecting their families from. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, the current bill and the amendment before the final vote also apply to a higher level of protection for people when buying online, and to more information on which webshops are not worth buying or using services. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the amendment before the final vote and then the bill. Thank you very much for your patience. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-12-299	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Member György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Szent János Hospital." Here you go.
u2016-12-12-300	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring of 2015, or perhaps at the end of the winter, the mystery that may now affect St. John's Hospital or other hospitals in Budapest began. In the spring of 2015, the plan for the government to modernise the provision in Budapest has come to light, and thus to determine the situation of the hospitals in Budapest, if you would like to redefine it in Budapest. There is no question that health care in Budapest is not really XX. It's the 19th century, but it's the 19th century. It belongs to the century instead of to the present, in the present, in the XXI. It works in the century and its virtues. It can also be seen that while rural hospitals were able to renew from EU sources and, to a large extent, only their appearance and physical state improved, the government did not want to use it from EU sources, but from its own strength, so that the territorial inequalities remained and therefore the Budapest lag behind. Over the past few years, as we have seen, the super-hospital project was launched, which immediately became a government commissioner, and a lot of money was immediately prepared, but we are still there, and yet we are saying that patients and workers are more afraid of the super-hospital. In the super-hospital project, one thing is certain: there are several hospitals in Budapest, including the Péterfy Sándor Utcai Hospital and in our case St. John's Hospital. But let's also look at the situation at St. John's Hospital, what the problem is and what the challenges it has to face. It is true that St. John's Hospital was one of the gems of the supply in Budapest, and it may still be, professionally, but in its building itself it has already fallen very badly. [[19.40]] Typically, they work in a pavilion system, an infrastructure design that is very difficult to fit into the achievements of the modern age, and does not serve not only the comfort of patients, but also the comfort of workers. It is also good to know that prior to the super hospital, there was a plan to transform St. John's Hospital: so that the central building block would be replaced with an otherwise ghostly similar block to this newly invented super-hospital, which would guarantee the highest and best security service. What is a problem with the current situation is that the irresponsible government promise, the irresponsible, unplanned, let's say, bleeding out that started either with St John's Hospital or with the Péterfy Sándor Utcai Hospital, has led to the fact that at present not only patients are uncertain where they will be provided in the future, but also the workers. So it is safe to say that government measures, plans, ideas have been more of a disadvantage for the hospital. By the way, politicians such as Balázs Bús, Zoltán Pokorni, János Fónagy or the partly involved representative of the region, Mihály Varga, have raised their supporters for the institution, and they have also been committed to the preservation and maintenance of the institution for a while, and, of course, not only to the preservation and maintenance of the institution, but also to its development, and then suddenly this government will vanish. We can also see that the hospital in South Buda, which is intended to replace it as a super-hospital for St. John's Hospital, will eventually meet in a real estate hospital. It is clear that there is a real estate business linked to a fidesz political circle behind this billionaire plot purchase, so you can also see that the health disadvantage of Budapesters will end up in someone's super-good business. But what you need to see and know is that what you're doing with St. John's Hospital is not just the XII. or II. The health care of the residents of the district, but also health care in Budapest, can be reduced by years, its quality and its development. Thus, it must be said and pointed out that St. John's Hospital has a very important role to play in Budapest, especially in the care of Buda and in the service of its population. Therefore, the Jobbik for Hungary Movement launched its signature collection movement and action in the summer, with which the nearly 6,000 signatures shown here, a large stósznyi [[He's showing it to me.]] It's a gathering. These 6,000 signatures prove that the residents of Buda do want to preserve St. John's Hospital and not only to preserve it, but also to improve it to their own standards and to a standard where they can safely heal. These 6,000 arguments, these 6,000 reasons for the government to withdraw from the super-hospital plan to shut down St. John's Hospital or to reduce existing services. Jobbik and the well-informed residents of Buda are committed to staying at St. John's Hospital. Thank you very much. [[Ander Balázs and Sallai R. Benedek applaud.]]
u2016-12-12-301	Dear Parliament, Representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. For the Olympics, will the Triple border be destroyed as well? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, the address covers the subject that I wanted to raise here. There's this fidesz-KDNP megalomania madness that we bring this Olympics here, that even though we can't organise a normal day, we'll be able to do that, with all the social problems, it's obviously what other sacrifices it brings. If they don't take it as a harassment and I don't abuse their patience, I would like to talk a little bit as head of the Committee on Sustainable Development about the aspects that should be taken into account in the Hungarian Parliament's adopted nature protection legislation. The first mention of Mount Trimashall was dated exactly ten years before the Golden Bull was adopted by János Belitzky, where it is called Mount Nagy, and on the basis of the Latin translation, there is the Szamár-kő. From then on, the rock in the capital area was named more, which was founded on limestone foundations, dolomits, and the 19th century. He received his now known name in the century, since Buda, Óbuda and Pesthidekút became the trifecta border of the Trimazár Hill and represented this. The fact that, despite the proximity of the capital city, the Trimazár Hill preserved its original natural image is no more proof than the presence of the Buda Lagoon grass. All you need to know about the Buda coyote is that it is an endemic species of its genus in the middle of the Carpathian Basin. The endemic species is exactly the opposite of cosmopolitans, as this means that they occur only here and in the world as uniques and therefore represent a high natural value. But in addition to the dolomit rocks, the survival of the hornbeam oaks has given us the opportunity to keep the red snake sill, the home-made berk, the wild pear, the grove grapes, the black birdbirs, the Orchids, the fly-bang, the deer bang, the salamander flower. Obviously, it is not only the flora of the plant that could have remained a high value, but also its fauna is of great value in many ways in the area of the capital. From the saw-legged grasshopper to the robber's pillar to the pannon lizard, there are many protected and highly protected species in this area. The mountain itself is already the scene of old Calvarys, because if we look back on the past period, then the Pilisi Park Forest farm, which has managed the whole area since the change of regime, has often had to fight for its truth so that this treatment can remain, and not only preserve the conservation values of the area as part of the Duna-Ipoly National Park itself, but indeed there must be a meaningful, sustainable forest management that will ensure that everything is possible. And here comes the Olympics. There are sometimes surprising branches among the Olympics, and obviously one of them is that the mountain bike as an Olympic number in 2024 can be part of the possible Budapest Olympics. The mountain bike, as well as known, is one of the most important activities in mountain biking, which, in addition to the motorcycle and in general such activities, could endanger these dolomit rocks due to its use, and here some hundreds of athletes and a few thousand viewers are expected to participate. Obviously, the strategic director is telling us to calm down, let's all sit back, this load won't mean anything. At the same time, if we look at the possibilities of creating the location of this sport there, we will see practically the location of the most important protected values, and this is obviously the concern that this policy of Fidesz-KDNP, which is destructive, fair and fundamentally contrary to the environment, will also appear here, which can obviously be covered from now on. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the planned changes cannot be decided that neither the local government, the capital, nor the government wish to inform the local population, and the residential forum is only Zsolt Láng, the II. Mayor of the District informed him in a classified ad in the Free People of Buda, so the whole plan was practically implemented without anyone knowing about it. According to the LMP, the Trimashall Hill is one of the jewels of the few remaining green surfaces in Budapest, and we cannot allow the Hungarians to lose a new green surface because of the economic interests of Fidesz, and therefore the public interest data request submitted by LMP by Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. To him, he'd like to reveal the risk of what's going to happen here. I ask the National Assembly not to allow any development to any company, on the basis of any interest whatsoever, which could endanger the natural wealth of the Carpathian Basin, and may result in the collapse of the few green areas of the capital. I ask for the help of the Hungarian Government and the Parliament. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[19.50]]
u2016-12-12-303	Thank you very much. Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title 'For the Miskolcs'. Here you go.
u2016-12-12-304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last year, I have had countless speeches here in the Parliament, which have been given specifically for the sake of the Miskolcs, the people of my constituency and the Borsod County, which I have mostly had, and may have been used to. In some of these, I was obviously critical of the investments that I had promised, but which seemed to fail, such as the question of the Y-bridge or the section of the main road 3 bypassing downtown Miskolc, or, where appropriate, the delay of the improvements to be made within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" (Modern Cities). At the same time, I have told you about the pitiful social situation in which a large part of the population in the region is located, and I have dealt with the problems of education and health care. But I have also had a number of speeches that - I think - have brought to Parliament problems that we talk about less often, but at the same time, the lives of the locals and the people living in the country are a real misery. One of these problems, which is found in local public life in these weeks and days, is air pollution. We rarely talk about this - unfortunately not enough - here in front of the National Assembly, but Miskolc may be one of the most polluted points of the country in terms of air pollution. The wheat square and its position may be known to others. Air pollution data in the wheat area tend to be much worse than the very bad data in the capital. Unfortunately, this causes a great deal of respiratory disease, a type of problems, health risks for growing generations, which is a huge problem in this region. I think Miskolcs and Borsod County deserve healthy air, they have a right to a healthy life. We need to find out the reasons. Obviously, a significant part of the causes are geographical reasons, since the valley of Sajó, but the valley of Szinva itself, is also a geographical area where such bad air is obviously sometimes stuck. But it is also evident, for example, that keeping gas prices artificially higher than the world market price is, unfortunately, pushing local residents, in difficulty, to heat with substances that increase air pollution. It is therefore important that the overhead is as much as the world market prices justify. In the last year, we have seen that the government is artificially keeping these prices high, although world market prices would allow them to decrease. Among other things, this was also covered by the four points of the "Safe Making" proposed by our group. But it is clear that the preference for public transport, the search for environmentally friendly modes of transport, would also be a way out. The construction of long - promised bike roads is constantly slipping, leaving obviously more harmful modes of transport. In the last six or seven years, the government has been waiting for the help of car replacements, and it does not encourage - or only a very narrow layer - the purchase of healthier, lower-emission cars is appropriate. And obviously, industrial emissions must also be checked to ensure that they are adequate and environmentally friendly. Last thing I want to do is list innovative solutions. The University of Miskolc has many such knowledge, the engineers there have many inventions, many inventions that could be used to reduce air pollution. And I think that this is not only for Miskolc, but also for the whole country, where the air is contaminated and the valley of Sajó could be a solution if these inventions were used well by this country and these innovative solutions were financed by the budget. Therefore, I would like to propose that a dialogue, a round table discussion, with the involvement of the public, the government, the city administration, experts and, of course, the representatives of the University of Miskolc, be launched on the problem of the scale of Borsodi air pollution in Miskolc. This issue must be resolved, and resources must be allocated to the financing of this issue, since the Miskolcs, Borsod County, have the right to healthy air and healthy life. I need everyone's help with this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-12-12-305	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 7:54 p.m.]]
