u2016-11-11-0	Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws until closure. The government referral T/12741. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-11-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On 28 October, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws. The proposal includes measures ranging from a reduction in public burdens through simplification to increased competitiveness. The measure to increase competitiveness in corporate tax is that, in the future, there will be benefits, for example, for restaurants using live music and for businesses that invest to make their energy use more efficient. As the government is committed to supporting innovative enterprises, in future, investors in support of innovative enterprises will also benefit from corporate tax benefits, thus reducing corporate tax liability will pay up to 25 percent of their investment, regardless of the future profitability of the investment. In company tax, we have clarified the rules of individual tax bases with a view to improving the interpretation of the law, and we have also done a fine-tuning of the rules applicable to international financial reporting standards, IFRS reportrs. The bill proposes, in relation to the small company tax, that any unexploited loss generated during the period of small company tax can still be used for another 5 years after the company tax has been passed. The bill also raises the revenue threshold for the cessation of taxable persons to HUF 1 billion. In particular, in order to encourage the competitiveness of the smallest companies, the increase in the revenue ceiling from HUF 6 million to HUF 12 million is a two-fold positive change for small companies wishing to opt for or apply tax under the so-called cata. Only the specific tax shall be paid until this is achieved. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the threshold for the tax exemption of the general sales tax will be increased from HUF 6 million to HUF 8 million, partly linked to the increase in the threshold for the selection of the kata. This step opens up the possibility to choose the subject-matter tax exemption for additional undertakings with a current tax base of around 580 thousand taxable persons. The taxpayer opting for the tax exemption does not have to charge VAT or submit a VAT return on its sales. In order to reduce administration, the system of payment of the health contribution will be significantly simplified, instead of five keys so far, only two keys will be included in the legislation next year. An eho of 6 per cent on interest income and the return on long-term investment income will be eliminated. Next year, paying-guest-seekers will be able to pay the public burden on them on a channel. The eho in charge of the activity disappears, but the specific personal income tax payable per room increases by the same amount as the cessation eho. Dear House, As far as personal income tax is concerned, the bill contains a number of measures related to previously adopted decisions, which are, in themselves, minor changes, essentially facilitating the application of the law, simplifying or reducing administrative obligations, which represent a positive change for taxpayers. For example, in the future, the benefit of the first married couple can be applied for 24 months even if the family discount is opened. In the case of long-term investment accounts, it will be possible for the account holder, at the end of the five-year commitment period, not only to re-establish the booking contract in respect of the entire stock, subject to favourable tax conditions, but also to exempt part of the amount and keep the rest of it in custody. Most of the amendments proposed in the Local Tax Act concern the definitions of business tax elements for managers in accordance with international accounting standards. In addition, the strong administrative burden reduction nature of the proposal is also reflected in the planned rules of the local business tax. For example, the holders of a common prima facie certificate, members of a family holding, may jointly fulfil their business tax liability, in the name of the taxed primary producer, the family farmer, in the tax return submitted by him. The rules on the calculation of the business tax base for related undertakings which are typically engaged in commercial activities shall apply only if the related business relationship has been established by division. According to the amendment of the tax law, the tax relief granted to real estate distributors and leasing companies is necessary again, by means of judicial practice and the intention to reduce abuse. The point of the new regulation is that the real estate distributor or the real estate leasing company must continue to undertake to sell or lease the purchased property within two years, in the same manner as the existing rules. However, if you choose to pay a levy of 2 per cent, if you also agree that the sale contract will be completed; or if you do not make such a commitment, you will deduct your obligation at a rate of 3 per cent. The car tax law also contains clarification rules on company car tax exemption. The rules on advertising tax law are also clarified. In the case of advertisements published on the Internet, the person or organisation entitled to have the right to have content on the advertising platform, i.e. the subject of the advertising tax, shall be deemed to have the right to have content on it. The administration in the advertising tax is reduced by the fact that there will be no need to sum up the tax base of the related companies publishing advertising because we have taken into account the low risk of tax evasion in this case. [[8.10]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with the request of the farmers concerned, the entry into force of the new excise law on 1 April 2017 will allow the tax warehousekeepers and the customs authorities sufficient time to carry out the developments and tests necessary for electronic reporting. However, with the amendment of the existing excise law, the beneficial measures for tobacco products will be implemented by farmers as from 1 January next year. Thus, according to the plans, the price will be removed from the product from 1 January for flexible pricing purposes by maintaining the tax ticket system and the switch to the stamp will take place with the entry into force of the new excise law on 1 April. In the case of tobacco products, the second step of the proposed three-step rate increase will also be achieved by amending the existing excise law. Despite the increase in cigarette tax rates, the proportion of the excise duty content to the weighted average retail price will remain one of the lowest compared to the EU Member States. In Hungary, the value of this is 55.2 per cent, with the rates applicable from 1 January 2017, below which the ratio is lower in Luxembourg alone. Dear House, The bill contains several measures to whiteen the economy. In this context, in order to reduce VAT fraud by passenger cars and passenger cars, the VAT return will be increased by a reporting obligation under which the VAT holders are required to provide data on the VIN of the cars for which they have declared tax payable in their VAT declarations. Dear Parliament, In recent years, our tax system has had positive changes that have stimulated our present and our near future in terms of economic development and the daily lives of taxpayers. With the rating system introduced a year ago, based solely on the examination of objective conditions, i.e. the introduction of a reliable and risky taxpayer category, reliable taxpayers can benefit further. For example, in the future they will not only be able to pay in instalments, but also to defer payment, and the threshold will rise from HUF 500 thousand to HUF 1.5 million, making this discount available to a wider circle. In order to reduce the administration, the income tax return of individuals will be prepared by the National Tax and Customs Office from 2017 if the individual has not requested tax taxation or the employer has not undertaken to establish the tax. The draft tax return shall be published by the State Tax and Customs Authority by 15 March of the year following the tax year using the customer gate on an electronic interface established for this purpose. An individual without a customer gate may request by post, text or electronic means by 15 March that the NAV send the draft declaration to him on paper and by mail. The service provider nature of the NAV is reinforced by the fact that it informs all those who have a refundable tax or possibly a tax to be paid. In the framework of a so-called support procedure, where the taxpayer is experiencing a risk, the tax office proposes self-checking and, if necessary, provides direct professional support to remedy errors and deficiencies in order to enable the taxpayer to comply with its tax liability under the tax law. The notification of the use of the head office service shall serve as an economic whitening measure. In the context of this obligation, taxpayers who are registered with the head office provider will be regarded as risky taxpayers in the future, and due to the obstruction of the tax administration procedure the tax authority has imposed a final default penalty on them. In the context of the electronic road traffic control system, the EKÁER, the legislation provides for a security obligation for new debtors who have not yet made an EKÁER notification or who have not reached 10 notifications within 180 days of their first notification. The amendment will reduce fraudulent taxpayers' behaviour, which seeks to avoid the obligation to pay the EKÁER risk guarantee by buying up existing but non-economic firms, which are commonly referred to as sleepers, which comply with the rules on the exemption from the obligation to pay collateral. The introduction of the institution of official supervision also serves to whiteen the economy, which is a measure whereby the identity of the consignee of the goods which are presumed to be subject to an infringement, the conditions of the supply, the person having the right to control it can be clarified, the disposal, the removal of the goods can be prevented, and the payment of penalties or costs can be ensured. In order to ensure adequate preparation time, food and beverage vending machines may be operated up to 29 June 2017 without a so-called automatic monitoring unit, except for machines which cannot be equipped with an automatic monitoring unit for technical or technical reasons. These machines can be operated until 31 December 2017. Dear House, Almost a year ago, the Honourable Parliament adopted, almost unanimously, a package of laws allowing the application of international financial reporting standards in Hungary. This new accounting reporting option was particularly welcomed by investors and businesses with international backgrounds, as a result of which more and more companies are indicating that they wish to switch to this reporting mode. The proposed amendment to the Accounting Act contains several amendments related to the application of IFRSs for individual reporting purposes which facilitate this transition. Thus, among other things, the deadline for the notification of the transition to international standards will be shortened from 90 days to 30 days prior to the transition. The bill also clearly states that companies established without an predecessor may use the new reporting option and that firms admitted to trading during the year are obliged to use IFRSs only from the financial year following the year of listing. The proposed amendments to the Accounting Act on derivatives and hedges are also linked to international accounting standards. These amendments take into account, on the one hand, the needs of the development of money market processes and, on the other hand, further align domestic standards with international standards. Dear Parliament, With regard to the regulation of audits, the bill also includes amendments to the auditors' special ratings. The use of IFRSs for specific reporting purposes is expected to increase the need for auditors with IFRS ratings. In order for an adequate number of professionals to be available, the requirements for obtaining IFRS ratings will be changed to a lesser extent. The rules on issuer ratings for auditors in force from 1 January 2018 will also be changed. On the basis of the bill, not all issuers, but only the issuer's issuer's issuer's auditor admitted to trading on a regulated market, will have the necessary issuer's rating from 2018. [[8.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, For legal harmonisation purposes and in order to facilitate a clearer interpretation of the law, the proposal for a tax law, which is now being submitted, also includes amendments to other, i.e. related laws. For legal harmonisation purposes, the law on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens is amended. The aim of the directive, which further expands the mandatory automatic exchange of information, is to extend the automatic exchange of tax information between tax authorities within the European Union to include decisions setting tax rulings and normal market prices. In order to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the sanctioning system of the Cash Act is amended and the proposed amendment of the domestic law is supplemented by the rules on seizure, retention and fairness procedures. During the amendment of the National Tax and Customs Office Act, we create the power of qualification of the head of the tax and customs authorities, which has so far been delegated to carry out the task. We introduce the rules necessary for the application of the health benefit and clarify the rules necessary for the introduction of the second stage of the NAV career. In the case of the Customs Act, there is no provision in EU rules for the calculation of the time limit for the procedure and it is therefore necessary to establish them. With regard to over-control, the enforcement of legality and professionalism controls is a reason for a comprehensive regulation of this institutional system. In the revision and re-evaluation of licences based on previous customs legislation in accordance with new legislation, customs legislation does not contain full provisions for their implementation, and it is therefore appropriate to establish rules for this task at Member State level in Hungary that provide clear guidance for law enforcement. The administrative cooperation agreement between the European Commission's online gambling regulatory and supervisory authorities may be signed by EU Member States and EEA States from November 2015. The bill submitted to Parliament contains the necessary legal provisions for Hungarian accession to the international convention. In order to protect the Hungarian legal gambling market and central budget revenues, we introduced the traditional toolbox of action against the organisation of illegal online gambling in three steps from 2014: in 2014 we provided the framework for online blocking, from 2015 against illegal gambling advertising, and in 2016 we provided the framework for financial blocking. The rules of the bill on on-site gambling control ensure more effective public action against non-online illegal gambling organisation. On the basis of these provisions, the inspector of the State tax authority shall be entitled to enter any premises in which it is likely that a prohibited gambling operation is taking place during an on-the-spot check. The VET Contribution Act will also be amended in order to allow companies to benefit more widely in the future from their own employees' training. There is also a change in the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and XCVIII of 2006 on general rules for the distribution of medicinal products. In order to ensure that for 2016, the pharmaceutical industry's new obligation to pay a so-called special-track tax is not imposed on those entitled to particular appreciation, on the budget line for the promotion of medicinal products and medicinal products with beneficiary status. Dear Parliament, The package of amendments to the tax law submitted to the Parliament serves both the business progress and the better livelihood of families, as the adoption of it reduces public burdens, reduces tax bureaucracy and increases the competitiveness of Hungary, including Hungary's businesses, and further improves Hungary's favourable judgment both at home and abroad. Hungary is further strengthened by the adoption of this tax package. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-11-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Given the practice of the recent years that, in essence, the main budget and tax legislation for 2017 have already been adopted in the spring, the package before us is an opportunity for the government to welcome what the Fidesz faction has shown that basically only simplifications, proposals that provide a better tax position for businesses and individuals, are presented, so it is expected that without more serious debates and perhaps appropriate support from all sides of Parliament will be available to the bill submitted. The amendments contained in the package, as I mentioned, concern the reduction of administration, the simplification of taxation and the introduction of certain priority objectives and incentive tax policy measures. The proposal also contains a number of technical clarifications, amendments and additions to the practical issues that have already been raised, to the problems raised, to ensure a clear application of the law. Moreover, of course, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, he is also fulfilling certain obligations of harmonisation. Allow me to say that I would not comment on every amendment to the legislation in the expozee, since it was both readable in the material submitted and explained in detail by the Secretary of State. Allow me to bring here some amendments that make life easier for domestic businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, as we hope. I could start with, for example, the concept of posting to be clarified in personal income tax, in the context of the rules on tax-free employer housing allowances, with the proposals for housing to be appreciated, together with the proposals for family members living together. In line with the restructuring of the legislative institutional environment, a number of new tax exemptions can also be mentioned in the proposal, such as the Balassi Bálint Scholarship Programme or scholarships under the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, as well as the provision of a new title for the organisation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in 2017. It is important to note, in relation to businesses, the increase in the income threshold of the specific tax on small companies from HUF 6 to HUF 12 million, which is an important change for companies living with kata. It is a good thing that new items are added to the scope of the benefits in the corporate tax. Among other things, a tax relief for investments for energy efficiency purposes will be introduced. The proposal aims to promote as much investment as possible in early-stage enterprises with a corporate tax discount. It is a positive change that the motion raises the revenue threshold for the cessation of the taxpayer to HUF 1 billion by maintaining the revenue limit for the opt-out of HUF 500 million. The purpose of the amendment is also to ensure that the increase in the income of taxpayers subject to a small company tax is not an obstacle to taxation on the basis of a simple tax. In the spirit of simplification, the proposal suggests that the system with five different keys will become two-key, leaving a 6-percent obligation in this context. In the future, the public costs corresponding to paying customer service activities will have to be paid as personal income tax and the rate of 15 per cent eho will be reduced to 14 per cent. [[8.30]] In the general sales tax, the threshold for subject tax exemption is increased from HUF 6 million to HUF 8 million. We have heard that there will also be some changes in excise regulations. The proposal will allow sufficient time for tax warehouse permits and customs to carry out the development and testing necessary for electronic reporting. For example, the proposal extends the tax exemption to passenger cars operated exclusively for home care purposes, by amending the company car rules of the car tax law, and, in the context of a tax exemption, it introduces a reference to the legal and preferential circles defining the conceptual elements of a severely disabled individual. We have heard that the draft advertising law clarifies that, in the case of advertisements published on the Internet, the person or entity entitled to have the advertising surface is the person who is the intermediary of the advertisement, thus the subject of the tax, i.e. who can decide whether or not to use the surface for advertising purposes. This is also the result of the rules that have been in force so far, and this change is only intended to avoid equivalent enforcement and legal uncertainty. The amendment of the tax law includes, on the one hand, rethinking the benefit of real estate distributors and leasing companies and, on the other hand, deregulation of certain tax provisions. It also simplifies administration by not requiring a payment order from the State tax authority in the case of certain tax-free acquisitions. I have already mentioned that I would basically highlight business simplifications, but it is perhaps important to mention that, for individuals, the rules of taxation, the procedure between the tax authority and the taxpayer are also re-regulating. In the context of strengthening the nature of the tax authority service provider, it is possible from 2017 to allow an individual who has not requested an employer's tax assessment or who has not undertaken to establish the tax to be prepared by the State tax and customs authorities and to send the personal income tax return to the taxpayer by electronic means from 15 March of the year following the tax year. Since the simplified declaration was abolished in 2017 with the introduction of the draft tax return, the option to choose a tax declaration also becomes necessary to amend the law on the use of a specific part of personal income tax according to the taxpayer's decision. The NAV Act is also amended. The main elements of the amendment are the introduction of health disability benefits to professional members of the NAV, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the necessary rules for the second stage of the NAV career, already introduced on 1 June 2016, in addition to additional clarifications to assist in the application of the law. In the context of the Customs Act, it can also be said that the amendment also contains provisions that reduce administrative burdens, as well as clarification that assists the application of the law. Finally, it was also said that the amendment of the Accounting Act takes into account the amendments related to the application of the IFSR for individual invoicing purposes, which facilitates the transition to this system. In addition, the amendment of the Accounting Act contains additional provisions that help to ensure frequent implementation. Overall, it is worth highlighting from the legislative amendment, and we can also ensure our full support from the Fidesz fraction that it contains only tax simplification amendments, which only improve the tax position of private individuals and domestic businesses. In this context, we can certainly support the proposal we have tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-11-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-11-5	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The first question we need to ask about the tax package before us is whether it is the real one. We have to ask this question because, in the spring of each year, Fidesz, in the spirit of predictability, accepts the government's bill on the budget, the bill on the budget for next year, the related tax laws - but in the spirit of unpredictableness, it starts to amend this in a few months' time. This has been the case in recent years, and so it is now. There's no point in discussing tax laws in the spring with a expiration date of only a few months. A good tax law has a warranty period of at least a year. Well, we haven't had a good tax package in years, so every month Fidesz has been working on it. It is still possible that, as usual, after spring, tax laws will be applied in the autumn, but we do not even know if they contain exactly the government's ideas. Mihály Varga mentioned the reduction in contributions at last week's Commission hearing, but in this regard he said that he did not know from when, he did not know how many percentage points of reduction, and he did not know how long this tax reduction could be implemented. Just as he had no idea how workers would otherwise receive this tax reduction in the form of a salary increase. If everything is true and you can listen to the news, Viktor Orbán has also become enlightened, and he realized, along with János Lázár, that there is serious problems with domestic competitiveness, and that something must be done. If all is true, next Wednesday the government will also discuss some proposals on this matter. So we have a good chance that the bill before us is far from the real one, and according to good government and Fideszes-KDNP custom, the amendment that contains their true intentions will be tabled at the committee meeting one day before the votes, and then the House of Parliament will vote on it the next day. It's usually the general schedule. And instead of the government and the Fidesz and the KDNP changing this practice, they would break up with this practice, it looks like they've agreed to do this year after year, month after month. Dear House, I think that instead of absolving and abetting, it is time to help the government what it should be doing for competitiveness; what it should be done to ensure that the country does not continue to split up, but to stop; what should be done to ensure that there are far fewer poor people in the country; what should be done to ensure that poverty of low-income workers within poverty is not increased but reduced; what should be done to make the Hungarian economy a more competitive economy than it is now. I have already mentioned one element of this, so predictability would be nice to write to you now on a sheet of paper and keep it on your desk every day. It is simply not possible to be competitive in an economy in which the expiration date of the most important laws is only a few months. But this is only one element of competitiveness. Another element of competitiveness is how investors, whether at home or abroad, are considering creating jobs in Hungary, and how labour costs develop for them. In addition to unpredictable, one of the reasons for the incompetence of the domestic economy is precisely that the tax and contribution burden on wages and net wages in Hungary is abnormally high in international comparison. And they're remarkably high, the closer we get to the minimum wage. [[8.40]] The Hungarian minimum wage is subject to one of the highest taxes in Europe. This is not only a question of competitiveness, it is also a question of social policy. The MSZP has been promoting the salary increase program for years. It seems that something of this government is stuck, even though it has not listened to the proposals of the socialists for years, in recent days several revelations have suggested that now they also consider raising salaries important. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Oral!]] - verbally, anyway. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, there are two ways to raise salaries, and it seems that Fidesz can only do one. One way to raise wages is by not changing the tax system and always requiring the economy, employers, to increase gross wages by what percentage. A significant part of this goes to taxes, we know that. Another way could be to raise wages - and this would also increase competitiveness, Mr Secretary of State - if tax reductions were to resolve the fact that, first and foremost, the salary of low-income workers, the salary that remains in the pocket, should be increased. For years, we have seen that the government has simply refused to do so, and the revelations of the last few days suggest that it imagines the whole thing in a kind of barter, that it will reduce the tax burden on employers on personal income tax, and in return it expects employers to increase their employees' salaries. This is a bad barter, although we've seen other examples of bad barter in the last few weeks, but I wouldn't comment on that now. A good solution would be to reduce the personal income tax burden for low-income workers. This 15 percent key is an unbearable burden. In Hungary, the average income is increasingly less important, because the country is split in two. Of course, in this case you provide international examples explaining that the difference between the smallest income and the largest income in any Western country is actually higher than in Hungary, so there is nothing to do with this in Hungary. Indeed, there is, ladies and gentlemen, because these comparisons are fundamentally flawed in one respect; namely, that you are going to any Western European country, you can earn a living from the minimum wage. In Hungary, that is simply not true. In Hungary, the net minimum wage is less than the minimum wage. That is why I am talking to people - workers, not unemployed - who have very little income, lean comfort, in exchange for the rise in average earnings and the rise in wages in high income bands. Dear House, This situation is quite simply unsustainable. It is untenable that people who already have a work income in Hungary do not live on their salaries. Therefore, instead of the government sitting on the horse backwards, let us approach the whole thing in the right direction and take the problem at its true root. Not with the reduction of contributions, but with the reduction of personal income tax, rather than with the current 15 percent, it would be much lower, even zero percent, on low incomes, let's say, minimum wage. There have been precedents for this, as was the case in the socialist governments. You've eliminated this. This has had dramatic consequences, with the net minimum wage falling after 2010. This was only partly offset by gross increases. At best, it was achieved last year for the net minimum wage that the value of the buyer would be the same as in 2010. I missed six years. As high incomes grew to real wages, while the lowest earner's real wages were held there at best last year, as in 2010, at the time of the change of government. This is responsible for the poverty of its employees in Hungary, but it is not only responsible for this, it is also responsible for the fact that in Hungary, in general, the tax wedge, which is calculated according to the size of the contributions and taxes on net wages, is charged in an unprecedentedly high international comparison. This is a competitiveness issue and Hungary, the incompetence of the Hungarian economy One of the main obstacles. Dear House, What lies before us is a basically flawed tax system, no more than a wrinkle, and we do not yet know whether this amendment will be final, or if next week the government will come up with the real solution. Either way, the tax system that increases the burden of small earners or reduces the burden of high earners is unsustainable in the long run. The social situation that has arisen as a result, namely the increasing spread of poverty and workers' poverty, which is simply unbearable. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, that's the sad situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I consider it natural for my fellow Members to raise social policy issues during the debate on tax laws. As a socialist speaker, Congressman Burány devoted his entire contribution to this, which is not objectionable. But I would like to remind the Member that the tax system that you have operated - and I have heard from your words that he is taking the country back in that direction again - we will not follow it. [[Sándor Burány: That's the problem!]] Because the country was destroyed, among other things, by the social policy and the tax system that you represented, and now you want to bring back some of the elements of it. What marked the time when the country was handed over to us, courtesy of the voters? [[Zoltán Grimlock: World Crisis! The president's ringing the bell.]] The economy was shrinking at the time, unemployment was skyrocketing. [[Sándor Burány: 25 percent VAT, zero percent personal income tax! Zoltán Grimlock: Is it okay if it was a global crisis?!]] Those who worked...
u2016-11-11-8	Excuse me, Congressman, I'm not in the mood to interrupt. My request is that we listen to each other, just as Congressman Harghitai did. Thank you for your understanding.
u2016-11-11-9	Most of those who worked at that time did not pay taxes, now you bring this up as a result, to bring back the period when virtually no taxes were paid at the minimum wage for small earners. It was an incentive for the black economy. That's how half the world was employed, that's what you want to bring back, and we're saying that it's a value that everyone's paying taxes. And it is also a value that we have been able to assert with regard to our tax policy that overall, we have been able to reduce personal income tax. These conceptual changes, which the Orbán government has made in relation to your tax policy, that personal income tax is falling, that the tax on consumption is increasing, I think this is good, and I think it is good to follow it in the coming period, and I would protect the government from - of course we do not have to protect them, you know - that there is no going back where we went where we went beyond your economic policy, because it proved to be a dead end. The government doesn't even want to do that. I'd like to ask you another question. When I think back to the period of the Socialist Government, at this time, when we were in the second half of a parliamentary term, and this is the last full fiscal year, the 2017 year we are thinking about, which is before the elections, it was consistently the practice in this country that budget relaxation would begin and some sort of distribution would start, and of course the next government would still have had its share. Now we can't see a trace of that. If I look at one of the most important budget objectives, the deficit target that the European Union expects us to have - I remind Mr Burány once again that this is the goal that you have never, ever met, and the Fidesz government will meet every year with its consistent fiscal and economic policy - it is set at 1.8 per cent by 2018, i.e. the year of the elections, 1.5 per cent by 2019 and 1.2 per cent by 2020 according to the government's vision of GDP. [[8.50]] So this means that the government is able to maintain its economic policy and its strict fiscal policy without being forced to correct it, and yet it is able to bring benefits to the tax system, because this law, which is before us, is only about discounts and simplifications. They can't find a sentence in it that would take the country in a different direction. Therefore, the statement by the Member is that we adopted the tax laws a few months ago, and now we are making some sort of correction, and this is untraceable for taxpayers, that is not fundamentally true, because facilitations will be noticed very quickly. I agree with you that it would be better not to constantly touch the tax law, but if we always touch it in a positive direction, so we give discounts, we make simplifications, and we introduce them gradually, I do not feel that it is a tragedy. Although the prophet would speak out of you that, as long as we are discussing these tax laws now, through amendments to the Government's proposal, we could introduce further simplifications or not a god, in the area of what economic policy has been about these days. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke about this at an economic forum in Pest. The Central and Eastern European economy is under wage pressure, and this wage pressure must be allowed in this economy. One way to do this is obviously to reduce contributions. You have already suggested that you would not approve of reducing contributions, but in your view the real solution is to reduce taxes, reduce personal income tax, and perhaps reach the zero rate again for the lowest incomes, which we do not consider to be the right one. This bill, which is before us, clarifies, amends certain tax laws, and consequently touches on related laws, and decides on certain clarifications and amendments. It is one of the objectives of the tax law, and I quote from the general justification: the reduction of administration - a fundamentally acceptable objective, obviously - and the introduction of further simplifications - is an objective to be absolutely supported - and the introduction of certain tax policy measures - is a benefit, and clearly again the economic operators are happy about this - and in many cases there are technical clarifications and additions in this draft law. The Secretary of State has analysed these in detail in his expo. I also highlight a few because of the importance of time management. I start with corporate tax, with the benefits that we aim at in this law: introducing live music users, energy investments and additional benefits for innovative businesses. Since we have already talked a lot about people with small incomes, it is also worth talking about those who are members of this world as entrepreneurs. The changes that come with the cata are important, that the tax rate will apply from 6 million to 12 million HUF. An important change is the rise from 6 million to 8 million in subject tax exemptions. Under this threshold, not only do you not have to pay VAT, but you do not have to make a VAT return. Simplifications that arise in this law in relation to the health contribution are important. Instead of applying five tax rates, which has been the practice so far, we are moving to two. It is worth mentioning the benefit to those able to make interest incomes and long-term investments. This is also important because everyone today is thinking about how to make use of their savings. The base rate is almost zero even in Hungary, so it is difficult to achieve interest income in this country today. In this situation, it is justified and reasonable for the government to have the benefit of eliminating 6 per cent eho, a health contribution in this income category. In personal income tax, Mr State Secretary, he announced administrative reductions and simplifications, which is obviously acceptable. It's for the purpose of bleaching, it's an area he's highlighted, and I'm putting it on, in the case of car sales, let's say, the VIN number, so that we can track what's happening on this market. I note here that the government's ambitions in tax policy were to increase tax revenues and thus support the budget's instruments by bleaching the economy. I am thinking of the measures that have led to a large number of VAT payments that have been in the budget for years now, the use of the electronic cargo system and other instruments. This, too, which the government is targeting here, I consider to be classified in this circle. In the context of related laws, several people have mentioned it, and I am only confirming the changes to the NAV, the clarification of the career model for NAV workers or the simplifications that are involved in the Customs Act. Overall, I can say that this amendment of the law, this package, of course, is eligible, even if it is a few months after the adoption of the general tax law, because it provides additional advantages and facilitations for taxpayers, whether they are individuals or businesses. I wouldn't mind the fact that in the course of this legislative process, we may be able to decide on further benefits with amendments in the course of these few weeks. Let's never bother the taxpayers with better news. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, Head of the Group, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when we are talking about tax laws, it is important to clarify why we are taxing at all, why we levy taxes: in order to create financial cover for Community expenditure, it is important to ensure the source of these. It is also very important to see that the tax is an embarrassing thing for everyone, since, if possible, no one would pay taxes. It is therefore important to tackle tax policy in such a way that, as far as possible, we do not burden participants in individual economic segments beyond the level of bearability, and, where possible, the tax system, as far as such a burden can be, should encourage businesses to invest, to create jobs, to grow, to increase the common good in a sustainable way. It is very important when the government course of the second Orbán government started in 2010, a number of objectives were set that could be agreed on. One is to simplify the tax system. At that time, the Prime Minister mentioned a personal income tax return of the size of the beer mat, so now we can see multiples of this beer mat, a number of times the amount of the beer mat is the tax return for the time being, so the Hungarian tax system cannot be called simpler, as the government has introduced new taxes, which has only continued the Hungarian tax system. Hungary, the people of Hungary, also pays exotic taxes, businesses established in Hungary, which are not even to be paid in other countries. It is also very important that the rate is predictable. I ask whether the rate can be called predictable in Hungary today. The government constantly touches the tax system at various points, not only once a year, but several times during the year, the tax system changes, and Hungarian economic operators have to adapt to this. Take a look at the opinions in various business forums. One of the most important criticisms against the Hungarian economy was that Hungarian public burdens are unpredictable, public burdens are changing, therefore companies cannot make business plans in the long run, or they can only do so with an expected premium that their profit expectations are highly tailored. If these are not seen to be fulfilled, they will not invest in Hungary, because unfortunately the tax system has proved to be unpredictable for them several times. [[9.00]] The third very important criterion is the affordability of taxes. There are also problems with this, as taxes are very high in Hungary, which are not affordable for businesses, and they simply cannot produce very often, for example, the financing of legal employment in the labour force, simply because the amount of money that can be generated in a given enterprise is not that large. And to understand, fellow Members, what I mean is that if someone in Budapest wants to employ two skilled workers as micro-contractors, they have to pay around 350-400 thousand forints a month to these two skilled workers. This is only a public burden on workers. If the entrepreneur wants to pay his own salary and maintain his company, then about a two-person company can expect a minimum infrastructure, rented room, car and other costs of 1.5-2 million HUF, and the Hungarian economy will not be able to produce this. These rates strangle firms in part, kill economic growth and, in part, give significant incentives to the black and grey economy. It is important to see that the government's objective is to reduce taxes on labour, to increase taxes on consumption, is a good objective, but this is not the case. Taxes on consumption have increased, and it is not difficult to see whether labour taxes have fallen, but we can very easily argue that. Think of the fact that two senior analysts of Századvég near Fidesz once published a study examining how the single-key tax system introduced by the Orbán government had an impact on the various social groups in difficulty. In this they found that the employees of the highest income tenth received more than HUF 500 billion from the tax system, while 70 percent of Hungarian workers either did not achieve a wage increase with the introduction of the single-key tax system, or the wages fell directly, as there were several changes in the tax system, such as the tax credit, which clearly affected people with lower incomes in Hungary. So, indeed, gentlemen and ladies, it is in question whether the Orbán government has always been able to meet the wage increase of workers through the reduction of labour taxes. Apparently, he couldn't, because at these points, the government's ambitions bled to death. Of course, Jobbik always agreed - this was already included in our 2010 election programme - to introduce family tax relief. This was a commendable measure, and we supported the government in it, and we want to achieve further expansion in the future. It is important to see that when the government changed its tax policy, it introduced a number of tax codes, which at least reduced and reduced Hungarian economic growth, and to which the Hungarian population itself and the Hungarian businesses themselves became burden-holders, and not the companies to whom these taxes were levied. What am I thinking? The Orbán government introduced the transaction fee which was not otherwise known in Hungary, and then, shortly thereafter, tripled the rate of this kind of levy, while it was also known that the banks, as they increased their tax burden, increased their own transaction costs and thus passed on to their customers, practically without bone, the full cost of paying the transaction fee. So what happened? The Hungarian state beat the dust on the banks, officially taxed the banks, and then allowed the taxed banks to pass these public burdens on to the Hungarian people. So the ultimate burden of these measures has become the Hungarian population itself and the Hungarian businesses themselves. The same has happened in the case of the bank tax. It has also been passed on to Hungarian people, account management costs have increased in Hungary, let alone decreased according to international trends and the rest. The government introduced a pipeline tax in Hungary, i.e. it hit various utility companies with this tax. It has thus imposed taxes which have not been observed in Hungary at all before and which have slowed down economic growth, since these companies, these companies, have restrained their investments, since in a tax-taxed environment no one would like to put money into these otherwise very important systems. Mr Secretary of State mentioned the introduction of the EKÁER and how much the Government has done to reduce the rate of VAT paid by the European Commission to between HUF 900 billion and HUF 1200 billion annually. I agree with this; the EKAER was also a positive fiscal measure in its entirety, but it is important to say that the EKAER was introduced in a small part because the rate of VAT in Hungary is the highest in the European Union. With this enormous value of VAT, the black economy is given a huge incentive, because this huge tax difference between Hungary and neighbouring states, and which affects the people of Hungary in this way, naturally encourages the black economy to avoid tax. I would like to remind you that at the end of the semester 2009, when the Socialist Government again raised the VAT it had reduced to 20 percent to 25 percent, the Fidesz parliamentary faction strongly protested against the tax increase. At the time, the fellow Members said that VAT was the tax on poor people, protesting that the socialists would raise this rate to 25 percent, but compared to that, the Orbán government continued to raise this tax to 27 percent of the EU's record. In the middle of 2009, when socialist governments increased the excise duty on fuels, Fidesz politicians protested vividly. Then consider the activity of the second Orbán government between 2010-14: once again, the rate of excise duty already increased by the socialists has increased. And now the government has regulated this area in such a way that, when world market prices would otherwise decrease, Hungarian rates will start to rise in this area as well. Thus, in this way, motorists, the car society in Hungary are subject to a high tax burden by the government. It is also important to say that, when the Secretary of State presented the restrictions on illicit gambling, the casinos of Andy Vajna, who had been transferred by the government to a casino concession and a number of legislative proposals, have constantly increased Andy Vajna's private assets by a number of legislative changes, and in these casinos the machines are not connected to the NAV system. So they do not have to report their business in the same way, they are not strictly controlled by the tax office as any Hungarian small business operator who has been obliged to introduce a cash register. I suggest you change that. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this change proposal, since this is also an issue that concerns the public, and we also find it unfair and pointless for this to work in Hungary. I consider it very important to formulate changes to corporate taxes. Here the rate of corporation tax varies depending on the size of the company, the number of employees, the number of employees and the turnover of the company. [[9.10]] Here, however, you can see that a number of large Western-owned companies have cut up their own company structure to qualify as medium-sized enterprises and to be subject to more favourable tender and tax rules. Apparently, the government has not acted against this kind of division, so it allows these companies to pay the lowest rate. I add that if a Hungarian company wants to take the profits out of the company, the Hungarian company will also have to pay a dividend tax; if a foreign company wants to take its profits out of Hungary, it does not have to pay a dividend tax, it has to pay corporate tax, business tax and it can take its profits from Hungary. Therefore, Hungarian businesses are currently facing an additional burden compared to foreign companies established here. With the tax change that the Secretary of State mentioned in his expo, Jobbik agrees by increasing the tax exemption from 6 million to 8 million. By the way, I have already taken this initiative in the previous cycle. Many countries in the European Union are trying to push the amount of tax exemptions granted by Brussels as high as possible. This is a clear economic stimulus measure, which Jobbik naturally supports, even if there are several elements of this tax package that we are debating. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-11-11-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Possibly Other is the political faction trying to review this nearly 200-page material that someone claims to be simplification. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary's opinion whether he knows the examples of Western Europe where four-page tax rules are in force for 10 years and what legal certainty we can talk about when only the proportion and extent of the modifiers appear before us. And it is obviously a little difficult to believe those arguments, either from the Secretary of State or from my fellow Member, Satmary, which would be about simplifying them. The purpose of the amendments is to reduce bureaucracy and simplify taxation, as explained by the salad law. In our view, this is at least as much of a lie as the public procurement law that was put forward the other day to claim that it would help transparency. My fellow Member Ákos Hadházy named him Ltt., as the law on downtime technology. This package can be called the "Bbk.", i.e. the sick bureaucracy salad law in tax policy. What else could be said about this work, which lists and explains those amendments over almost 200 pages, in many cases introducing procedures and innovations that would not only simplify bureaucratic procedures and wording, but also complicate them? It shows the standard of law preparation that you oversee, that a large part of your previously enforced legislation is good if it is worth a year without any change. This is obviously also an indicator of Hungary's legal certainty as to how much these rules are worth, and obviously the seriousness of legislation is shown by the number of times that such amendments come before us. And to make it more difficult to adapt in your law factory, nowadays, as in the present case, they are not only modifying and improving the underlying laws, but also amending them and making changes to the amendments to them in many cases. This is clearly in the spirit of transparency and transparency in your interpretation. I have been promised a tax return of the size of a beer mat, a 500 billion-dollar reduction package, but instead I have these new red tape packages that have been submitted every year, for which you have already lost track because of the law preparation and series of amendments. But let's look at the details. Mr President, may I ask whether I should continue speaking without a government representative? Because as far as I know...
u2016-11-11-14	Congressman, please continue. Secretary of State is in the room. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-11-15	Yeah, I didn't see him. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai from the benches of Fidesz: I am here! It's very exciting. Fascinating. - Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] Yeah, I didn't notice. So the point of the amendment is that in addition to their buddies, relatives - Garancsi, Mészáros, Tiborcz, Vajna - they also receive tax incentives or tax concessions. This is basically what is apparent from this package of legislation, and it is also called the discriminatory legislation that, by the way, Fidesz-KDNP is constantly reporting to the European Commission. But first, let us look at the lex Tiborcz part of this law. Article 7 of the Corporate Tax Act. According to the amendment of Article 4 of the Act, their oligarch comrades may reduce their pre-tax results not only by the cost of renovations but also by twice the cost of renovations as regards their historic or local property and accessories. Of course, all this comes from public wealth, and we are obviously helping to renovate these values with public money. In fact, as a further surprise, they can even deduct maintenance costs from their tax base. Interestingly, this L. Simon acquisition of monuments, with the increase in the interest of the Tiborcz family, comes to the fore here in the tax law. Obviously, this is as if my pro-government fellow Members had neglected to say that they were drawing attention to how this would appear. If Mr Tiborcz and his associates are not able to avail themselves of these enhanced advantages, then you will give them the opportunity to reduce the tax base of their affiliates. So if there is a construction company and it has a monument that you might want to renovate, if you charge significantly more costs there, the less tax you will have, and you will create this possibility. Therefore, companies that do not have anything to do with the specific investment, at most on friendly and kinship lines, will also be able to avail themselves of such discounts. It's doubtful if it's constitutional at all, but it doesn't bother you very much if you're trying to put your friends in position. Another example of an amazing waste of corporate tax budget revenue is stadium building subsidies, also with Taós overhangs. In order to avoid any obligation to conduct official procedures even for friendly preferences, the previous obligations under paragraph 26 no longer limit the right to deduct the new owner, but undertake to comply with them. Obviously, this is where the renovations near the government that we have seen in recent years appear again. As an example, Minister Antal Rogán's memorable helicoptering, whose accommodation in the Aristocrat High Lord can be a renovated building in the same monument, whose further renovations will then take place with a tax discount. These amendments are obviously not independent of the fact that István Tiborcz's interest recently bought the castle in Tura, and, as we know, Lőrinc Mészáros is also keenly interested in the castle business. In fact, even their Saudi Arabian friend, Mr Pharaon, may be among the beneficiaries with the construction of József Rádor Square. This is where what is happening in this tax package becomes transparent. Not to mention the recent award of one-and-a-half billion in the EU for castle renovations. We would not be surprised at all if businesses and people who are familiar with these properties were soon to acquire ownership. But don't get your hopes up, Mr. Secretary. You're not gonna get away with this. Possibly Other Politics continues to explore these corruption cases and to present them wherever possible, as these tax incentives form part of public wealth as well as in the future. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] Mr President, may I ask, is it just a matter of opposition or is it a problem if they are pro-government? Because we were offended first when we intervened in the speech of our fellow Member of Harghita, but now I can do the same without further ado, my fellow members of the Government.
u2016-11-11-16	Congressman, please continue. Thank you.
u2016-11-11-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just wanted to compliment you on being impartial. The oligarch discounts aren't over here. However, as we have heard a lot about it, the Fidesz-related oligarch team is also affected by a huge distribution of EU funds in terms of energy efficiency investments. Among other things, at the expense of the EU's money that the Lázárs have taken away 90 billion from the use of the population, with the unveiled lie that the use of the population is not allowed in this regard by the Union, the baselessness of which has since been revealed. The LMP continues to demand that at least this resource actually be transferred to citizens and that it be used as widely as possible instead of kissing the Prime Minister's kissers for renovations and real reduction in the public energy savings. Another amendment to the corporate tax law concerns investments in energy efficiency, according to which the installers of this type of construction can use up to HUF 4.5 billion, i.e. tao discounts of EUR 15 million. For small enterprises, this aid may be increased by 20 percentage points or even by 10 percentage points for medium-sized enterprises. Although the discount is good in terms of energy efficiency investments, its extent suggests that small businesses are not at all the target groups for public cutbacks, but also Mr Mészáros and Mr Garancsi, who are expanding in the energy business. [[9.20]] This confirmation in the public media, or forgiveness, is very easy to verify on the media, as the activities of these businessmen close to Fidesz are obvious to everyone, and clearly raise suspicion in the event that, at the same time as this effort, Mr. Secretary of State brings such a tax relief between the walls of Parliament to accept this. However, it is totally unacceptable for LMP to have the Law 22/E. In paragraph 4 (b), a rubber rule has been smuggled in that, directly linked to the investments for the above purposes, there are also financial additional costs that can be counted as tax relief that arise if the taxpayer otherwise has invested and does not implement it, so that basic investment is effectively granted tax relief, and no additional expenditure or surplus profit is expected from this. This paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: It is clear that it is able to serve public money theft in practice again. To tax relief, it is only likely that the taxpayer would have carried out the unrealised investment in a credible manner. This is going to be strange because this is the case in these cases when it comes to a friend, while at a later stage of the amendment we will see that without further ado, the NAV can break the door on others. Here again, there can be a wide space for executions, the use of contact capital, and, in Hungarian, crimes that threaten corruption and the purity of public life. For fictitious, unrealized investments, they are obviously setting up sums and costs that they are not ashamed of, and this discount will be an uncontrollable source of public money flow. In practice, this phase of the government referral creates tax avoidance opportunities for those who are in the circle of friends concerned and are able to make such investments at all. This friendly capitalism, which has been built, is clear to whom it creates the opportunity for such improvements, so that this tax relief can be part of a very narrow segment, it is quite clear. Neither could the media guru, Andy Vajna stuffed with state billions from the salad or the defense. The Law on the Organisation of Gambling 36. According to the amendments to §2 of the Act, the NAV may refuse to comply with the request of the Member State's co-authority for online gambling if it, and I quote, violates or threatens the effective professional management or supervision of the activity of gaming organisation, as well as the smooth and effective functioning of the gambling market. This means that there are places where the tax authority can go, there are places where it can check, there are places where the EU co- administration can request data, except for the judge in Gevi, who, where appropriate, is Andy Vajna's person in this legislation. Given that the independence of the Hungarian control institution system has been completely shredded by the system of national cooperation, gambling concessions and licenses are only in the hands of the state or friends, there is obviously a risk that, even on friendly and higher requests, the NAV may hide what it wants from the European co-governments on whatever grounds it wants. Obviously, if the president of the NAV is the author, this is a good little power for himself, but obviously for Hungarian taxpayers and the transparency of taxation is not the luckiest measure. Whatever you tell him, obviously I don't suppose, let there be no misunderstanding, independent thoughts in this regard, as it is an executive role. This kind of absurd, indeterminate provisions carry exactly the above-mentioned corruption risks, which the May Other Politics will, of course, not be able to support in any form. However, there is another twist in this story, because under the new provisions, the Hungarian authority can refuse to seek and comply with the European Economic Area states - again I quote the legislation - if the Hungarian authority - i.e. the NAV - would incur significant costs or an unjustified administrative burden. So another reason why the NAV, if it doesn't want to publish something or if one of its friends is being harassed by an EU co-government, should be kept secret as far as possible. It would be difficult to ignore in this legislation that in this case the Hungarian Government is trying to prevent other European authorities from accessing tax data by virtue of their responsibilities, as they have also limited access to sensitive public information within Hungary, of course we can add that it is completely contrary to the principles of the operation of the rule of law, as with the need for transparency that they regularly claim, in a totally hypocritical way. If this innovation is the idea of the Hungarian government, then the amendment in question can be regarded as a further development of previous frauds. If the EU is involved in this, unfortunately, it can be said that the Hungarian virus that encrypts the data on public finances has already appeared in other areas of the Union. We could say that the Hungarians are in a different pantry about your tax secret. Returning to the law on the organisation of gambling: 36 of this. We have also found a new amendment to the new directive on the subject. This amendment gives NAV inspectors practically police powers. It allows you to search the premises of the gambling companies, but if the company uses the property of another person, the owner of that property is obliged to tolerate unlimited on-site control. However, this raises strong constitutional concerns that the NAV - I quote the legislation - can also carry out control at the home of an individual who is not engaged in business activity if it is likely that an unauthorised gambling activity is carried out in the home. The reason why this extreme rigour is interesting is because it doesn't really manifest itself in anything else, it just seems like if someone wants to do a business that affects the business of your friends, and it might fall into his jurisdiction. It is very, very strange to see this tightening in light of the fact that a year ago, the system of propertyisation investigation was virtually abolished, which would have allowed taxpayers, for example, to be asked about the origins of the hundreds of millions used in land privatisation. So here's a serious tightening up, because if you don't steal for Andy Vajna in gambling, then don't steal anything, obviously it's lucky for tax evasion, but it's pretty ridiculous that all the tools are at NAV's disposal. By the way, we wouldn't be surprised if Andy Vajna was given custody of the NAV to check his competitors and those who carry out similar activities at will. Mr President, Now my time is up, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to proceed from here in a normal speech. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2016-11-11-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As there are no independent Members in the Chamber, they do not take part in the debate, we will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-11-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here at the beginning of the debate, I would like to ask a question and take a position. The question is obviously addressed to the Secretary of State. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you with great respect that, not at the end, but at the moment, if possible, you be kind enough to inform me, as you go, where your thinking of reducing contributions is now for the government. How do you plan to do that? From when? For how long? Is it a temporary or a long-term idea? What will that mean to the extent, what percentage? How is this going to forint, become a net forint, virtually a hand-held salary? These issues are obviously important, as they are essential from the point of view of the workers. The main reason why they are essential - and I am moving to the second part of the matter here - is because in Hungary the issue of workers' poverty cannot be debated when, as you are supervising the NAV, you know well - according to the NAV's statements, there are some 1.4 million people in Hungary who earn less or just as much as the minimum wage, or more than half of the people working do not earn the sum per capita of the minimum living, so there is something to do. Especially when, compared to 2010, the total amount of contributions charged to the minimum wage increased from HUF 32,000 to HUF 69 thousand. If this extra increase had been virtually forinted and paid, people would now be earning more than the living minimum per capita. Nor is it worth losing sight of what this issue looks like with regard to the Visegrád Four. While it does not reach 74 thousand forints net in Hungary, this question falls between 100 and 110 thousand forints in the other three countries. That is why it is important to talk about these things, and I ask you with great respect. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-11-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by the Members who have been notified in writing. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-11-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would have a brief reaction to what my fellow Member Harghitai said. He said it helped the black economy that there was no tax on the minimum wage. Well, it's been a long time since I've heard such nonsense, Congressman. [[9.30]] The moment they taxed it, every second person was announced for four hours and six hours because an extra load appeared in the system. You can see he used to do this, but it's absolutely bullshit. I'm sorry. In fact, it was another burden, and a number of companies fell into it. One of our largest employers, the papal meat factory, received a tax burden in the two years when you came to government, which was almost HUF 1 billion a year. Then we wonder if he's not competitive, and I don't know how many times he had to be helped. Now I hope you'll have a real owner, and then you won't have to do it again. They introduced all kinds of taxes that they said wouldn't be passed on, either the transaction fee or the food security fee... they didn't transfer anything. Unfortunately, the Hungarian companies did not know because there was not certain that there was a priceable demand for it, because anyone who could eat by the way did not give money to them. So this is a perverted tax system, which you have done, no matter how I look at it; there is nothing more perverse in Europe. And if we're talking about... the Secretary of State said we don't really care about what's inside. My fellow Member Sallai has told me quite thoroughly what they are doing again, because I cannot imagine a law, perhaps now there is one before us, the vineyard-wine law, in which there is no ulterior motive, but so far in every law there has been an ulterior motive for helping friends and how public money could be redistributed even more, let us say, besides football, allowing a very serious corporate tax relief in other areas, which, of course, we will obviously encrypt after that, that it is not even possible to ask who was generous in this area and what kind of state support it will receive. But I'd stick to my own profession, and I'd rather talk about what's missing from this tax system. We are talking about competitiveness, which would indeed be a very serious part of the reduction of public burdens, which we have been hearing for days now, and interestingly, everyone is talking about raising salaries now, after they are almost no longer professional in the country. This is particularly hard for our sector as well. One of the lowest-income sectors, and it is not for nothing that this area receives relatively high EU support, I would not say support, is more of an income supplement, because it is not possible to compare it to the automotive industry or the electronics industry. The biggest problem is the enormous VAT burden, in addition to the high cost of public contributions, and not only because this would be a normally functioning country, where VAT would be an intermediate item, for example, for the producer, I would say that this obviously interferes with consumption in the residential sector, but would not be disturbed, but that is not the problem here. The problem here is that VAT fraud has become a huge business of the size of oil-bending and oil-business... and of the mafia. Now, in addition to your tax policy, for example, giving nothing to those who do not have a work income - this is true for pensioners, who have received a huge gift for Christmas, about a kilo of bread, who, let's say, receives a minimum pension - there are also a lot of areas for whom nothing helps. The only thing that would help them is to be able to get the basics needed for life support at a cheaper price. There's more than one of these things, but two of them are like that. One is energy, because it needs to be heated so they don't freeze. By the way, it is also an amazing world in Hungary that there are 1.2 million hectares of state forest and people in their homes freeze, Mr. Secretary of State. I suppose that happens to you, too. So it is certain that something can be done, for example, with firewood, and not with 2.5 or 3 grams of firewood, but with a possible income that can either buy people, or who need them, and not everyone needs them, we can see this in this hand, and yet, interestingly enough, we get a lot of these signals from Szabolcs, but I don't want to go in that direction any better. But let me just say, going back to VAT, the EKAER is a necessary evil. There wouldn't be a need for EKAER here if the VAT wasn't this high. But I'm also saying that even though they started something, if they don't go through with it, criminals will always switch over to that product until the 27 percent VAT remains. It was obvious. After the pig was no longer making much sense, they went over to the milk, because it has to be clearly seen, and I think the authorities can see that, for some reason only their hands are obviously held captive, I can only hope that it is not because the highest political level is involved in it, just like in the oil business; it simply did not see or want to see that, for example, 120 HUF UHT milk could not be in the store, even with low buying prices. That can only be in the store if the VAT is refunded at least twice. The EKAER didn't touch this. I've heard of one milk course, an 8,000 litre. Eight thousand liters of milk, Secretary of State, 350 decent cows in one day, no problem producing. So it's not that big a deal to maintain such a system. It must be maintained, there is no other option now, but it would be much easier if, for example, this tax package had seen that the VAT on UHT milk should be reduced, not only the raw milk of the pre-cooled milk, because the highest consumption is precisely that, and the biggest VAT fraud is precisely in that. We have said this many times, we have submitted it many times, and the profession keeps asking for it. It's still not too late. You can also submit an amendment to this package in this case, because it is obvious that its representatives will be able to adjust VAT if they have not opened... More precisely, at one point, the VAT law is open, there is the lower limit of VAT liability, but this does not give anyone the right to open the annex. Therefore, for example, we cannot submit the VAT package to this law, but we are going to submit it again, despite the fact that it was voted off again in the Economic Committee last Monday. But that's also what I can say about the fact that there are no 45 forints potatoes, Mr. Secretary of State. There are 45 forints of potatoes on the side of the roads, after which no one has ever paid any public service or paid any taxes; 45 forints do not cover the plant protection costs of the potatoes. So when you see something like this, and I guess someone else is obviously traveling, not only are we traveling, we're not just walking on the side of the road, and we're seeing vendors like that, you don't notice it, no one's going to ask, "Where the hell did that stuff come from?" ! It must be very, completely viral, no longer usable seed potatoes, who knows how old it is, which is in a well-cooled environment, until the housewife takes it home, quite normal. Such a conversation should also be used to talk everyone out of it, as it is clear that everyone should be dissuaded from 10 to 18 percent of the meat of Polish poultry sausages, because there is virtually nothing in it besides water and chicken pulp and, more specifically, leather pulp. So I think that these matters should also be dealt with in a tax package, and now there is money. It's always been that we never tell you what would be the source of that. We now believe that there is a huge revenue from a misplaced ground-privatization. We hear it, and not only do we hear it, but the minister himself is bringing it in to take it away from the village and take it away from the village people, the small people, and get into the deficit reduction, which will disappear there so that no one will notice, because the 3,000 billion-dollar downfall that affected private pension funds did not realize how much it would have reduced the deficit. He's taller than when they took over. Instead, for example, if only for the product scope, which clearly affects the competitiveness of Hungarian producers, this is not too much, the whole circle of milk, so it is not without UHT, because it is not going to do anything. There is the fruit and vegetable, where they now say not 50 percent, but 70 percent because of the black distribution, because the Hungarian producer can do nothing but cheat if they bring in 45 HUF Polish potatoes and 15 HUF apples and 20 HUF apples. So these two packages, the fruit and vegetables, are the ones that would have a health effect. The next thing I know is that for different meats, so now it is possible to think about processed products in a certain circle, not to mention breads, which is one of the biggest items in Hungarian public consumption, and I would add that everyone here is talking about it, and the better colleagues said that we raised the VAT to 25 percent. Yes, but we used an 18 per cent key in three product types, precisely because, even when there was an economic crisis, which everyone in Fidesz now forgets, they didn't even want to accept that there was, but then they praised the Bajnai for how well they handled that crisis. And then they told me everything. Well, that's interesting, but fortunately, everything in the media remains, so thank God, it's what you sometimes think about retired women. All I can say, Mr. Secretary, is that this access to the system is useless. For once, you should listen to the experts. In my own profession, I have a proposal or material made at the Agricultural Research Institute. [[9.40]] It shows very precisely how, together with tax fraud, it would pay back, for example, in the product products I was talking about, the VAT reduction. Yes, some must be sacrificed for a short period of time, that is a fact, but we can see that 50-60 billion are being squandered here with a government decision, because now Parliament has no right to even comment on the budget, because the government is free to raid it, and this bill has been passed. Therefore, I think that much more energy should be devoted to this, because in the end, for example, there will be no dairy cows in Hungary. The end of such things is that it is not enough that we are hit by a quota break, which is obviously good for the larger countries who have been overgrown and are now able to legalize their overproduction, this effect is slowly going out, but there is a terrible burden on our production, and we cannot compete with the kind of cheating gang that is involved in it. We also see that it doesn't really have a consequence, because at one point, it was very difficult to catch someone in connection with sugar VAT in the area of Győr, the CBA partner - after which, oddly enough, a large CBA store burned down along with the computers in it, which nobody understands, of course, but it's obviously none of my business, it wouldn't be my job to find out why this happened, but they don't really want it, I see - and a man got suspended. Well, for two billion, it might be worth a year and a half suspended, about as much money was stolen. So this is not a deterrent, if that is all the justice in Hungary is capable of, and we see that when we need to reach out to a place where someone else might be involved, let us say, from government circles, then interestingly, they do not want to investigate in substance there, as otherwise, but we will continue this match, for example, in connection with the land business, because it would also be worth a separate mass. I think, Mr Secretary of State, it would be okay if, for example, you responded to this VAT issue, that it is now really the solution that we have EKÁER, and then we will catch everyone who is cheating, because it seems to be not working. Or it would be the solution, and with this they would take the tax fraud, that the VAT would not be so high, and not everything should not be classified as caviar and lobster in a 5% VAT rate - no one ever asked for this, except once when our fellow Member Font submitted such a package containing grass, wood, flowers, everything - but really the product scope should be helped by reducing the VAT that causes the competitiveness problems of Hungarian producers. We see, for example, the confusion caused by such an insurmountable disease, which is now in the hands of avian influenza, and I very much hope that we will be able to manage it effectively, but it will be very difficult to deal with it, because in such a migration period, this will come up almost every year, and there will already be serious export problems. You can imagine that if this effect is still discovered by the VAT problem, it is serious... - it is fortunate that the poultry will be reduced from January, because it will bring something, at least a little protection from the imports that are pouring on us, because sooner or later this disease will reach something else, and it will be less likely to restrict imports in Europe than it is in the direction of third countries. I think that if the sayings that we have only heard for a day or two now are true, that there really is a need for a competitiveness move at government level, it will help something, but because, Mr. Secretary, it will help pensioners for a very long time to say, for example, that we are now reducing contributions, because it may raise inflation upward and then the pension increase will be higher than 0.9 percent, because in general, there is higher inflation in the recovery of the economy, but this is a very long impact. So perhaps we should also think quickly about forgetting this only inflation-linked pension increase and bringing back the Swiss indexation. If there were to be an increase in wages, pensions would at least increase with real wages, and older people in need would not be in a position to think about buying medicine, say, fuel or food for themselves. I propose these for consideration, and obviously in this we are putting forward proposals which we are constantly putting forward, and believe that they are prepared professionally, we are trying to help. Another question is that in our profession, the crop will last long and it will have to sleep a lot out there, but I hope that sooner or later it will come to pass, and that we can achieve what we think of all of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-11-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The positive and, I must say, indisputable advantages of the presentation, which is primarily presented by the lead speaker of Fidesz, but in particular by János Hargitai, I do not wish to repeat. I would like to make some comments that I would like the direction that this bill actually represents to continue and, in part, to be completed. It is about this, and I think it is not possible to go along with the fact that the leading speaker of the MSZP has again brought up the old and once-in-a-lifetime question of what is the situation in the area of proportionality and what is the situation in the area of justice, what is the situation, in the end, this is the case with regard to the single-key tax. I would like to share some thoughts on this. I have no reason to change what has already been said, but I must admit that the government's ambition to create a situation in the world of taxes with a bold pull in a difficult economic situation that could have established the strength and security of the budget, but it could have allowed even a major reduction in debt to be possible, is now not debatable. However, I am pleased to see that there is some thinking in this area. For example, in the field of eho, I consider that there are two keys now, because my position is unbroken that proportionality is an important principle, but justice can never be ignored in applying proportionality. I thought this was necessary because, in this respect, we, the civilian small farmers allied with Fidesz, have no reason to change this, but at the same time I stress once again, I acknowledge that these steps by the government were not only practical, necessary, but also effective. However, I would like to explain that there are some elements in this proposal that no one has addressed so far, and in particular in a direction that I believe will allow for further action. I consider this proposal to be a positive one for primary producers. In the part of the proposal, in particular, where it provides an opportunity for burden sharing in the case of common producer certificates, I think it is a significant step forward. Let's just stop here for a second. In itself, allow me to say the same term as the original producer, but I feel it is an atavistic expression. We could call it a small farmer and a lot of other things, but this prehistoric producer doesn't actually express anything. Once there is one, and not a few thousand, but tens of thousands, but perhaps hundreds of thousands, of people and families who have an interest in this area, it is worth dealing with. Therefore, I consider it particularly positive in the proposal to make it possible that this would seem to be a burden, the payment of a higher contribution. There is a pre-thinking in this, a pre-care spirit that can only be supported. Indeed, it is also necessary to move those who now see certain advantages in the field of prehistoric and prehistoric certification, to see that the future times must also be guaranteed. When the government gives me a chance to do that, I think it's positive. At the same time, there is a section here at the original producer's findings and proposals that I cannot go without saying a word, which is why, among other things, I asked for the floor. It shouldn't involve the family economy, it should be mixed up with the ancient term, it's unfortunate. With regard to the family economy, sooner or later we need to get to the point where it is clear that there is no such thing as a single family economy. Family farms have a part of their business, and those that farm hundreds of hectares or even thousands of hectares operate exactly as if they were not related; and there are those family farms that are clearly farming in an area of family size and are able to survive and achieve results accordingly. [[9.50]] The Ancient farmer is another category. This is not the fault of the taxpayers of the tax law; it is not the fault when presented in this way. It is time for these concepts to be clearly defined, enshrined in law and clearly applicable within the agricultural world. In the absence of this, we are constantly slipping from one area to another, and therefore the good results that we actually achieve in some places seem very often not to exist. Dear House, I would also like to point out an area which is also affected, if only to the point, by this proposal. The government obviously sensed that, at this time, the number of apartments in Hungary has a very important role to play, and that is the number of private apartments. Private rentals, most of which have come and are created in such a way that citizens who think long-term and already think about their retirement periods or their future livelihoods are trying to provide some sort of background for which, today, in addition to very, very low interest rates, capital investments, interest investments are hardly likely to bring the result. These apartments, which are obviously used by rent, are, I believe, absolutely beneficial to society. Therefore, they are managed in a uniform way, and I must say that, within the treatment, perhaps even ensuring the benefits for the future is a justified option. What do I mean? Today, there is a regulation in force that says that if the one-year income of an apartment renter reaches HUF 1 million, then in this case an eho will have to be paid all the way from the first forint. Now I will return only to our own principle, not to justice, but to proportionality. I think this is definitely a matter to consider. It should also be considered because I have to say that one of the biggest problems in this area - I believe that tax experts know this much better than I do - is how much clearer a situation can be created for tax purposes in the area of these leases. If there are rules that go around rules, even if they are not moral, but seem justified, then I think that these rules will be violated, and they will be bypassed in one way or another. Consequently, in order to create a clearer situation, as I have acknowledged and repeatedly acknowledge, the single-key tax has produced a result, contrary to what I have previously stressed and said; one must at times be able to revisit itself, there must also be steps to be taken here that can lead to results. Dear House, On the socialist side, it has also been said that the government changes tax laws too often. I don't think that's harmful. I believe that thorough and necessary legislative amendments will serve security rather than delay responding to a social and economic challenge that needs to be answered. If you can see what needs to be answered and it can be taken well - I believe that the government will take them in time and in a good way - then they should be answered as soon as possible. The task of this House is to make the proposals that can still be built into it. Dear House, Overall, I think that the proposal before us is forward-looking, I believe, in many respects, making the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises easier, but it can make it even easier to think about the opportunities that I have taken the liberty of drawing up briefly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-11-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-11-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear colleague, Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács. If I may, I would like to respond briefly to your speech. I do not think that there is a need to correct a piece of legislation at times. Here is the problem - as I outlined in my previous speech - when the mafia says to the government what laws should be created in accordance with its interests in order to avoid tax and to obtain subsidies. This tax package, which is about this, is mainly designed and implemented by this type of tax. The correction can obviously be useful and forward-looking, but when some big businessmen with the government in their pockets can practically put tax laws in the pen, it is not fundamentally productive and it is not in the interests of Hungarian society. Much of the opposition speeches were mostly about this. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I'll pick up where I left off. If you like to remember a little bit, we were saying that the Gambling Organization Act is 36. I spoke at the end of my speech. I cited the law: NAV may also carry out the control in the home of an individual who is not engaged in business activities in cases where it is likely that an unauthorised gambling activity is carried out in the home. This literally means - I read in an article that the Prime Minister likes to play ulti and the ulti is played in cash, so that is likely from here on out, and you can always go to his private apartment to look at pockets and see how this gambling is played for money. I will be curious whether the law will ever be applied for this purpose, or whether the application of these legal bases will only be found if someone violates the interests of Andy Vajna. Article 36 (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The roughness of the article really appears when the amendment of the law further details what can be done. At the scene of the suspected violation, the person present, i.e. anyone present, will be heard as a witness even if he is not present and is not aware of the procedure. And all of this can be done by the tax authorities in private homes. Within the framework of the procedure, you can verify on-the-spot any individual suspected to have been engaged in gambling activities. The one you suspect! Again, I would like to mention the Prime Minister, who has an ulti, because I am very suspicious that it is not played without money, for matchsticks. You're involved, I quote the law, you're mediating, or you're involved in a game that's governed by the law. The withdrawal of police powers is not yet over here, as it has been checked by the tax inspectors at their request - attention! - shall evacuate his clothing and deliver the items in his possession to the inspectors. All this is not done by TEK, but by the NAV to empty people's pockets. In the event of opposition, the NAV inspectors may request police assistance. In addition to the fact that this type of tax-control activity effectively creates a dereliction of jurisdiction and raises suspicion of misuse of official authority, they also implement the criminal form of private home invasion, violating fundamental constitutional rights of privacy. Lifestyles of the provisions described above: if someone, anyone blames us for illegal gambling, then NAV inspectors can push anyone into our apartment, anyone, our family members can be prosecuted, and they can do search-like activities, and if we defy them, they can call the police on us. I don't know how many people are going to play with this, but I'm sure in case of suspicion, there will be some announcements based on this, and I'm afraid that their application will not be very consistent. This statement is also based on the current practice of the NAV, since when a small person has a tax case, the NAV acts very consistently, but when, for example, the NAV investigates against my fellow Member, János Pócs, about HUF 2.9 billion in application aid received by the First Hungarian Environmental Social Cooperative, according to previous data, there is little evidence of where this co-operative case is going. But János Pócs was also involved in the title when, in August 2015, the Hungarian State paid HUF 36 million to NJL Ipari Szolgáltató és Kereskedelmi Kft. Since then, he has been able to stick his trail, and interestingly, the investigating authorities of NAV and NAV have not acted so consistently in these cases. However, you will be able to make any notification regarding the application of these instruments. These are Erdoğani methods, and the level around which the Turkish democratic level is sinking, given that - and here, obviously, the principle of consistency - Andy Vajna is even exempted from the use of online cash registers, with a rather poor state secretary's justification. The application of this double standard is not very sympathetic and not very moral. Undersecretary of State, there is also a new chapter in the Act on the Rules of Taxation, a chapter has been created, which says that it is a procedure relating to the draft tax return. In our view, the provisions set out here further bureaucratize the reporting service undertaken by the tax authority, which can also be used by individuals. There is no procedural simplification, it creates explicit complications. You are not changing these provisions for the first time, and in recent years, every amendment to the tax law has been announced that instead of individuals, the NAV can now prepare a personal income tax return. We were pleased to do so once, but the constant repetition of this does not create a euphoric atmosphere in us, because mobilizing and holding a press conference to cover the wild drivings of tax laws every year is not worth it. After all, one who monitors these activities clearly sees through these things what is happening in the country. [[10.00]] Perhaps a few weeks ago, Mr Secretary of State, at his press conference announcing the amendment of tax laws, he boasted that a new procedure would be developed at the NAV with the name of a new procedure to support it. However, we have found nothing new in this regard, as any reviewer should automatically carry out a risk analysis regulated here, if he checks a particular company, and the content of this type of test method is regulated in detail in other parts of the Tax Code. This has already been regulated by legislation under the name of the tax registration procedure and the increased supervision of the tax authorities, and it is clear that such feathers, which had already been ordered by a previous legislation, are not very fortunate. It is, of course, conceivable that the co-difficators of the competent ministry could no longer be justified in the sea of amendment, which is also characterised by, among other things, the Law on the Rules of Taxation. And bureaucracy is only increasing, detracting valuable capacities from meaningful work. It also includes the fact that although Mr Tállai has been campaigning since last year with the promise of a new and simpler tax procedure law, he has neither heard nor heard of it. Interestingly, when we should see a proposal to simplify taxation, it does not come here, while the tax policy for Vajna and the Tiborcz family appears. Obviously, there's more capacity to write these laws for you, but it would be nice if all the other taxpayers could get a tax simplification. We are now also witnessing this legislation overcomplicating the tax procedure rules and the unnecessary institutional introduction of these rules. Another example of this is the introduction of a so-called completeness statement, to which the tax authority calls the taxpayer with a deadline of no more than 30 days, i.e. twice with a deadline of 15 days. In view of the fact that the taxpayer may at any time refuse to make such a declaration without consequences, and in addition, this type of appeal may have been issued by tax inspectors so far, this provision of law once again does not make much sense in this amendment. Unless it is, and obviously this could be the motivation of the lawmakers to extend the procedural deadline in this way. So if there is not sufficient capacity to carry out the task, it can facilitate an extension, which the tax authority, Mr Tállai in particular, had just struck back with a last year's amendment, referring to the reduction of bureaucracy, that it is not fortunate. This was also discussed here in Parliament's walls between bureaucratic legislation. However, these things should not be arranged in this way at all, but rather reviewed the NAV's control capacities and where the shoes are tight, either redeployment capacity or human resources development should be carried out, which would be much needed. And last but not least, we should touch the law on the rate of taxation which has been altered in a stupid way, as the Ministry of National Economy has done in recent years, driven by political motivations and ignoring the opinion of the profession. The salad law is 185. The reproduction of the default fine set out in Section 2 of this Article, in proportion to the amount of invoices not presented, is only to increase the amount of irrecoverable claims or to punish smaller non-fiction taxpayers. Obviously, this can again be an insult to honest taxpayers, because if they admit to a mistake, they may not need to be punished, but they should be motivated to do so in the future. So, of course, it is possible to make it look like another big slap on the black economy by increasing sanctions, even though that is not true at all. The reduction of the black economy could rather be achieved by increasing the effectiveness and effectiveness of controls. It is, of course, a much harder task than constantly improving the sanctioning system, but we cannot expect much more from a legal government, which believes that by continuing legislation enforcement will also be achieved. But as we experience it, unfortunately, this is not happening. The law-modifying package has some positives, though. But I do not feel it is necessary to stress this, as my fellow members of the Government have done so. The increase from 6 million to 8 million in the tax exemption for the subject is particularly SME-friendly, and I wanted to emphasise this because I feel that, by the way, small and medium-sized enterprises are severely hit by the government, and this is a positive measure. Raising the preferential tax part of the income of small companies from HUF 6 million to HUF 12 million can also help the small ones. This is a measure that the LMP could support if it were in itself before us. With regard to the amendment of the law on certain rules for international administrative cooperation, I would also like to note that it is a positive thing that, within the framework of the automatic exchange of information, Hungary should provide data on tax rulings and the establishment of normal market prices to other EU Member States. At the same time, this is not the merit of the Hungarian government, but the mandatory adoption of an EU agreement or regulation to prosecute cross-border fraudulent transactions, which we also see as having possible positive effects. The Hungarian government's domestic activity in this direction has developed so far in the fact that it has banned the application for data of general interest in this respect. And if we get to the amendment of the levy law, there is obviously a measure here too, my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, referred to this, where some amendments would be necessary. The only question is whether the positive measures of a basically wrong direction salad, which basically serve oligarch steels, should be improved with a small change. And, if I may, my fellow Member, János Hargitai, I would like to join in the speech he made in admitting his duty to the tax rules that they have serious social policy implications. Therefore, it is inevitable that we should talk about these too. Based on my personal impressions and experience of my faction, we can say that Fidesz-KDNP's tax policy has largely failed. What you need to see - as a much older legislator than myself and having more experience than I do - is that social policy impacts can actually be achieved in substance through aid policy, tax policy and the definition of the legal framework for tax legislation. Therefore, if there are negative social processes, if poverty is increasing, migration is increasing, if there are unattainable public services in the countryside, if there is insufficient funding for public tasks, it is basically a budget error. The reason for this is either in the tax rules or in the aid rules or in the budget system. This is not a process independent of governments, it is not the economy that is responsible, but the bad regulatory factors, the bad tax policy. The tax policy that the Fidesz-KDNP has built since 2010 is for the big ones to grow stronger and roughly sweep away what we talked about earlier. The insistence on a fully incorrect single-key tax, or the promotion of the creation of billionaires, is also a social phenomenon that has appeared together in connection with the corruption cases of Fidesz-KDNP. They may have read the news this week that Lőrinc Mészáros made HUF 9 million a day last year, which is how much his wealth increased in one year. This HUF 9 million a day, if it can be credited in tax policy, indicates that it is foolish and unfair for the government that gives it space. And if you implement such a tax policy that it is only possible for some people, for a narrowly selected circle, while crowds are breaking away from the minimum of living, then obviously there is nothing else to say but that the government that is doing all this is guilty. In addition to some positive changes on nearly 200 pages, this package helps the Tiborcz family, Garancsi, Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna, in the vast majority, and it is about what we talked about earlier that a well-organized criminal group has taken over Hungarian legislation and practically penned the laws that serve its own survival and interests. Obviously, this is not in the interests of Hungarian society and Hungarian people. I have tried to point these out in the interest of the Group of Possibly Other Politics, and I would like to stress that we seem to be significantly more of the opposition than Fidesz has ever, in the past six years, represented by our proposals to create a civil Hungary. I would ask for consideration of our proposals and perhaps weeding out corruption aid and tax policy issues, if possible, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-11-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-11-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only asking for the right to speak to you personally, allow me to express my opinion. Honourable Congressman Robert Sallai Benedek, Every expression of yours is dirty, stinky and gasy. It's at least the same as when he expressed his opinion by covering manure. Honourable Congressman, You should know that what you've been talking about here in Parliament, you're going to give everyone the basis for all kinds of charges if someone would dare to sink to your level. I'm not gonna do that myself. Honourable Congressman, If you have contacted me personally, I have no interest in NJL Kft. or ETUSZ. [[10.10]] By the way, no money, no pennies of state money is missing from any of these companies. Not in the way you did, honourable Member, when you renovated the Túrkeve mill on state aid. Honourable Congressman, Don't turn your back on me. I'm talking to you. [[Sallai R. Benedict, leaving his seat: I listen, I just know how serious you are!]] When you built the Túrkeve mill from state aid, the state aid disappeared and the mill collapsed. Honourable Congressman, If you think you're right to be at the head of morals and morals here, then I'd like to ask you first of all, before you defile anyone, defile anyone, spill manure on everyone's heads, first come to you. And I'm asking you to put back the money you've invested in renovating the Túrkeve mill through state aid, and then a few days later, the mill collapsed, then you'll have the right to look at yourself in the mirror. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-11-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-11-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with the negotiation of a tax package, people expect two things: one to be predictable, predictable, measurable, predictable, and the other to be of benefit to them. Now, what I see is that this tax package is not about that. I see that this tax package is not in the interest of the majority of Hungary's workers, but rather in the interest of some people. Obviously, there's been a lot of talk about oligarchs, friends, buddies, examples of this, but it's not about making names in this story, it's about the pattern itself. I'll give you a sample: for example, in relation to the toy tax, if someone forgot to pay - quote - the toy tax was the result of this withdrawal of the license. Today, this item is virtually highlighted, removed, today it is no longer important, it does not need to be included, because some people are not likely to benefit from it. Or there are energy companies that can pack more money, say, in football or/or in movie production, if any; interestingly, in football and film production. Why not areas that touch people more directly, directly, and more vividly? I'm guessing it's all about friends again. And in the meantime, they will look at the tax evasion of related companies less, they say that this was difficult and has no such effectiveness. Something of this type of consideration was made by the Secretary of State at the beginning. I think it's worth considering, rethinking, even rethinking. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-11-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek has applied for a two-minute speech, LMP. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-31	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to make one request which, by the end of my speech, did not fit in due to time. Mr State Secretary, I have mentioned specific pieces of legislation in this speech, and I would ask you, if you could please respond specifically to this, what you think of these legislative sites and their application, because it can fundamentally affect our further behaviour, how we judge this package; so that you see a chance to try to react to them with a concrete response, so that we can see the direction of Fidesz-KDNP and see what I have set out specifically how you can judge them. I'd like your cooperation on that, please. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-11-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech. He asked for a word in a normal time frame. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-11-33	Mr President, Dear House, I do not promise to fill in the opportunities given by the normal time frame, because it is essential to clarify an area that has not yet been mentioned on its own weight in respect of this package. And here, obviously, we have to include a package of special taxes that have been carried out at the level of promise on the one hand and not in practice on the other, and, thirdly, there are a number of factors that affect the population on a daily basis that actually vaporize the effects of any positive government intervention that they consider to be beneficial or beneficial. So we mean cosmetic types of discounts, and we also support them, where appropriate, but also in addition to sectoral special taxes, for example with regard to transaction duty, we are talking about a type of tax that has been called a levy at the time, so that Brussels does not have to break down this battle or do not have to be so effective. But we have to say, in fact, in a collusive way, with the population being hit, completely passed over by all financial institutions, the tax burden is constantly being borne by the population, acting as a kind of tax, and the measurable damage cannot be compared, much higher than the benefits that appear to be granted in respect of a benefit in this package. This is similar to yesterday's competition debate, where, with a 10-15 percent reduction in customer numbers, they were so proud of a few million HUF discount per year. However, what I am saying is that in merger cases or in case of cartel suspects, there is a need for more investigation, so not only should we look at a threshold of 5 billion, but also in highly specific industries. I mentioned the book industry yesterday either the publishing industry or the various media products industry, where it does not necessarily have to reach 5 billion in order to create changes in the market that are harmful, restrict competition and harmful to Hungary. So what we can see is that it is possible to make cosmetic changes in the case of housing subsidies, but if there is no home-building programme behind them, if there is housing poverty in Hungary, if the government does nothing about this deepening, then there is a question of how it intends to achieve results. Or is this about another PR stunt? Because in this package, too, if all they had done was to finally intervene in the amazing, spreading crisis on the rent market, finally doing something, we would have something to talk about. I'll give you an example: Airbnb and various community accommodation-sharing portals, sites took out thousands of real estate from the Budapest rental market only. So there was a supply shortage that hit prices skyrocketing, and not only in Budapest, but in the great expectations in a specific and typical way. On the other hand, the supply side is not being expanded by the government. How could he do all this? Let's just say he's evaluating half a million dollars of vacant property, looking at what's useful. Last year, there was a very detailed survey, a statement of this, but it didn't turn into government-level action at the same time. Or you could do so with a rent-apartment construction programme, where by ensuring the mass of rent-apartments, while leaving the demand side unchanged, it contributes to reducing prices to the level that can be tolerated. Or, let's say, in a tax package, you could also introduce a flat-rate tax form for similar social networks, where, in the case of properties to be issued and issued through similar Community solutions, the flat-rate taxation which could at least involve these Community-based companies, service providers and companies in the form of existing tax laws would be extended to this scene. It is ridiculous that if a Hungarian, typically not small, but medium-sized company decides to open a boarding house, then it will have to go through several months, if any, multi-annual licensing procedures, various offices will have to waste it in various bureaucratic mazes, while a simple downtown or Király street apartment can be built with a few clicks, without any permission or procedure, after a few clicks, you can now advertise your goods, signify the apartment or rent, and obviously these properties will then typically be removed from the Hungarian subletation market by foreigners. From this point forward, the supply side has been heavily, once again, reduced by thousands of real estate in the past period, and then the simple Hungarian man, the simple Hungarian youth who comes up from the countryside to learn about Pest, faces the fact that he may have to pay multiples of the original and normal prices. So the real meaning of such a tax package would be not to touch it in a cosmetic way, say, housing subsidies, but to put a flat-rate tax form in order in the rental market. At the same time, we do not see a trace of this, nor do we see a home-building program. At one point, progress has been made with regard to housing, which is the number of permits for newly built properties issued. At the same time, only less than 10 percent of Hungarian society is affected by buying a newly built apartment anywhere, let alone in a residential park. [[10.20]] However, it is important to note that, along with the publication of CSOK, NOK and other benefits, especially for the more fortunate social groups, the investment in real estate that had been stopped or frozen, or the real estate that was carried out on the Kopaszi dam by various government acquaintances, is now likely to contribute to the increase in the number of new buildings by issuing more building permits. But that doesn't mean that a simple Hungarian person could pay for all of this in addition to the real estate prices that were otherwise aroused and left to wake up. So here we are talking about a tsunami investing in real estate and the expansion of opportunities for more fortunate social classes. But the housing crisis and housing poverty will not decrease in Hungary as regards the simple Hungarian man. I would expect a tax package for the government to bring in the benefits for 90 percent of society that could make progress from zero forints or even from the generation of budget revenue. We simply do not understand why this government, even if not perfect for Uber, does not have the courage to do the same for other Community-type solutions. This government could not push itself to regulate the entire Community economy. So obviously, the world has gone by your side, new economic sectors have evolved, new economic segments have developed, they typically operate unregulated at the moment, often causing fiscal damage, loss of revenue. There are very simple regulatory systems, not in Hungary, but in successful national economies and market economies. I'm not saying we have to start taking over without thinking. But to avoid a discussion, social dialogue and any discussion between us about why, let's say, a Hungarian youth has to pay twice the rent justified by market conditions in Budapest, this is quite amazing and unacceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-11-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-11-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really like to say a few points at the end of the debate. Firstly, I thank the pro-government and, of course, the opposition representatives for their speeches. I thank, in particular, those who have really been able to deal with the proposal. The majority of opposition speeches did not deal with this, but rather criticised the government's tax policy; the tax policy which, by the way, has been very successful since 2010 because let's just think that the third international credit rating agency has rated Hungary in the last few days. In this upgrading, I think the government's tax policy has also played a role. If we recall the 2010 period, we could see that the budget was not balanced, there was a significant budget deficit, there was no concept of tax collection. The government has been able to make a significant difference. First, it stated that the tax burden on income should be reduced, while the reduced income tax burden should be broadened, more income and more people should be involved in taxation. This goal has been achieved. It also had a very important objective for the government when it said that consumption and turnover taxes should be more involved in the structure of tax revenues; so what a person consumes should be included in the budget with a higher amount of tax due. By comparing tax revenue developments from 2010 to today, a very positive picture is drawn otherwise. When we talk about Hungary's ability to exit the excessive deficit procedure and keep the budget deficit below 2 per cent stable, we need very serious, stable and predictable tax revenues. I think that the government can show outstanding success in terms of personal income tax, for example, where, in addition to the fact that the system has become one-key, which generated a one-time budget revenue expenditure of some HUF 400 billion, and today, in addition to single-key personal income tax, tax revenue is essentially the same as when progressive taxation was typical in Hungary. However, it is a very serious result that it has been able to achieve a very serious social policy objective with the family tax relief system. By the way, once again, the same amount of personal income tax is now in effect and the budget can return some HUF 240-250 billion of family tax relief to the families involved, who will obviously use it for consumption. In addition, the government is also able to produce a very significant profit in terms of VAT revenues, since in 2011 VAT revenues were barely over HUF 2000 billion. Now, in 2016, VAT revenue is likely to reach HUF 3300-3400 billion. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The economy is growing!]] We can see that in five years, the current government has almost doubled the revenue of general traffic taxes by a small exaggeration. This has not been the case in Hungary, by the way. It is also true that the economy is growing, and thank you for your help from the benches of the MSZP, and I am pleased that MSZPs are also proud that the economy is growing. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We didn't dispute it, we don't argue it now, we just don't have to spend the money on stupid things!]] However, the economy has been growing for two to three years and not to such an extent as, for example, tax revenues are increasing, or specifically VAT revenue. So, yes, the government has very serious results in terms of tax policy, tax collection. If you'll excuse me, there are still a few important questions. Congressman Gögös has just proposed a system of VAT fraud in Hungary. I must tell you, I find it a little strange that you are saying this, because during your administration, the VAT fraud, the system of VAT claims began to flourish, and the Fidesz government began to eliminate them nicely. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I just didn't make it!]] We have had some very serious success. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many people are in prison?]] contrary to the statement made by the Member, and not by us now, but by the OECD, according to which in Hungary in 2013 the VATs were 22,4 or 22,3 percent. This means that the state has not been able to collect this much of the VAT that can be collected. As a consequence of the measures taken, the 2014 study already shows that this rate has fallen to 17 per cent. Believe it or not, Congressman, in basically two years, we have managed to reduce this rate by almost five percent. What's that all about? Thanks to the introduction of the online cash register system, we have indeed brought tightening up VAT declarations, VAT registers, so that it can be better monitored, and the NAV can control it better and more effectively. Indeed, our internationally recognised EKAER system can deliver significant results. But the good news for the Member is that I bet now that this 17 percent will go below 10% in Hungary in two or three years and will be internationally recognised. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If you bring down the VAT!]] I say this because, given the experience with the EKAER, we will make new amendments and improve the system even more. For example, we will be placing weights in the country. This means that you will be able to measure the goods transport vehicles as you go along, thus combining them with the EKÁER system, the NAV will be able to monitor the way of goods that might arise if they want to place their goods on the market untaxed without paying VAT. [[10.30]] We agree, of course, that this should always be increased, made more efficient, that the scope of untaxed products should simply be excluded from the country, and I think that we can deliver serious results on this issue. As far as the VAT rate is concerned, we also have significant results in this, since every year the VAT on certain product groups or goods or services has been reduced. You have mentioned, too, that we have been able to take a significant step forward with regard to basic food, as the government has taken significant steps in terms of pigmeat, milk and poultrymeat. I think that it is possible to criticise this kind of general sales debtor policy, that the tax on certain priority products and foodstuffs, which are important for the government, is being reduced, but life proves that there is, in addition to increasing consumption and VAT revenues, serious results in this respect, and that the government is on the right track, in my opinion. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As far as the question of reducing contributions is concerned, at first reading, a proposal made by the Minister of National Economy has already been read, accepted by the government, but has not taken a decision. In this respect, the government negotiates with the employers' and employees' side and will then decide jointly. However, I am predicting that the government's first presentation was very welcome by the partners involved. So we want a social consensus in this respect between employers, workers and the government. Whether this will take place in this law or in another law will be the result of a subsequent government decision. Finally, I would also like to respond to Mr Sallai R. Benedek's speech. I am convinced, Mr Congressman, who is not here, but still expects me to answer, and has even drawn my attention to it, that you are offended for some reason, but that you are very angry. And it is also certain, honourable Member of the LMP who is not present, that you either do not know the law or, if you know it, deliberately and intentionally misinterpret it and then misinterpret it. This is true of the approach I make to almost all questions. The fact that you want to detract from the powers of the NAV is absolutely shocking because you are the leader in gambling taxation. In this change, it is said that NAV can also check it, and where there is no undertaking, no declared tax number, but still engage in illegal gambling in that place, it can also carry out a check. Why this is such a problem for you, I don't know. I would like to reassure you that the data provided by the NAV, which is included in the bill, is that when it is necessary for the NAV to provide information internationally, it is the transposition of the European Union Directive in its entirety into the Hungarian legal order. Therefore, only information which is otherwise recognised in the EU Directive can be refused by the tax authority. So we're not bringing anything new in with this either. As regards its criticism of the tax relief of energy efficiency investments, it is simply incomprehensible. A green party is attacking the tax relief of energy efficiency investments, which is incomprehensible. You are in such a contradiction just to be able to criticise the government, by the way, that you are in conflict with the objectives of your own policy. There is nothing to do with the possibility of unlawful tax relief. I would like to point out that the European Union's strict guidelines apply to tax relief in its entirety. Moreover, this regulation allows not only large companies to benefit from this tax reduction, but also small and medium-sized enterprises. As regards the unlawful use of the tax advantage, paragraph (10) states that the fulfilment of the conditions for tax relief is subject to at least once by the end of the third tax year following the first use of the tax benefit. So I assure you, Congressman, that there is no illegal tax relief claim. I thank everyone once again for their participation in the debate. I ask the Members of Parliament, the factions, to adopt and vote on this tax bill package, as it improves Hungary's competitiveness, improves, reduces tax bureaucracy, helps the situation of families and thus strengthens everyone in Hungary. Businesses are growing, thus the economy, families are growing stronger and the whole country, Hungary, is growing stronger. But to do so, the bill must be passed by the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-36	Thank you very much. Welcome back, we'll continue our work. I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. General debate on the draft law on the entry into force of law with a different text until closure. The government referral is T/12240. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-11-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, With a view to predictability and predictability, the Parliament, like last year, discussed and adopted the law on Hungary's central budget for 2017. As a result, stakeholders can prepare in time and anticipate their next year's margin of manoeuvre. The bill before you retains the marks of the budget already adopted, and there is no change in the policy measures taken. This amendment addresses the legislative changes that have been made since adoption. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for amendments before you do not entail any numerical changes, so they do not affect the deficit under the Financial Act 2017 and the European Union methodology, nor do they affect the expected reduction in government debt. Dear House, Please allow me to explain certain points in the proposed amendment to the law. The regulation of cafeteria was changed in the Act on Personal Income Tax as a result of the amendment of the tax laws in June. In view of the fact that there is also a reference to cafeteria rules in the Finance Act, it is necessary to clarify the reference in the Finance Act in order to ensure legal consistency. Before the National Assembly, there is an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, in which, in addition to the measure increasing the efficiency of the public procurement procedure, the Government proposes to increase the threshold of the public procurement obligation. Since the thresholds are set out in the current Finance Act, as the Public Procurement Act changes, it is also necessary to amend the Finance Act. The 2017 Budget Act provides for chapter provision and payment by the deadline of 20 December in case of non-compliance with payment obligations for each of their budgetary bodies. In order to give the institutions sufficient time to fulfil this obligation, it is appropriate to amend the deadline a few days later, on 28 December. Finally, as a result of the change in legislation during the year, from 1 January 2017, the institution formerly known as Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre will be changed to Klebelsberg Centre, the transfer of which is also included in the proposed amendment. Dear Parliament, You can see that the amendment to next year's budget law is indeed necessary due to technical and legislative clarification. [[10.40]] I would like to stress that the main macroeconomic indicators remain unchanged, the government expects a 3.1 percent economic growth and a 2.4 percent budget deficit, so that public debt can be further reduced as mentioned. The government's social policy objective for the future remains to ensure stability and security for Hungarian families in the debt reduction and home creation budget, as well as the possibility of development for domestic businesses. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to adopt the bill at a later date. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First of all, the speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr István Happy, is the speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-39	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In line with previous years' practice, next year's budget was already adopted by the Parliament in June 2016, and I believe that this will in any case increase predictability and stability. It is not possible to go without saying that the three largest credit rating agencies have now recognised the government's work that the country's finances are in order and recommend our country to invest. I believe that the legislative proposal that is now in front of us is also intended to ensure that, in addition to the usual stability, the necessary legislative measures are taken for the needs and changes that have arisen since adoption. The amendment of the budget submitted next year is only necessary for technical and regulatory clarification. The amendments concern the following areas. The deadline of 20 December of the management chapter for the establishment of the chapter reserve and for the fulfilment of the payment obligation should be modified by a later date to 28 December in the event of the default of the payment obligation imposed on certain budgetary bodies. The amendment of the tax laws in June changed the regulation of cafeteria in the personal income tax law, and therefore the relevant provisions of the fiscal law need to be clarified. Given that domestic public procurement legislation is being renewed, the current budgetary law should therefore include the national procurement thresholds to be changed. On this basis, the threshold will be increased from HUF 8 million to HUF 15 million for supply and service orders, from HUF 15 million for works to HUF 25 million for works and from HUF 25 million for service concessions to HUF 30 million for services. The increase in the threshold of the public procurement obligation represents a significant simplification of the minimum value of procurement. The Government decided in March 2016 to restructure the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, and as of 30 November of this year, the independent budgetary district centers will be set up, thereby eliminating the maintenance and operational powers. This will justify changing the name of KLIK, which will change to Klebelsberg Center in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be seen from the above, with the adoption of this amending budget, there will be neither numerical nor cash-flow changes in next year's budget, so that the deficit targets set are not threatened at all. I believe that the adoption of the abovementioned changes will not prejudice the central budget of 2017 and, in fact, will only make it more precise with the above changes in legislation. Please support the budget. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-11-40	Thank you very much. Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-11-11-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, From the bill before us, we can see that the deadline for the provision of the chapters will be pushed from 20 to 28 December, no voluntary pension fund payment from the employer with a reduced key next year, and obviously the relevant provisions of the Public Procurement Act will have to be transposed. All of this, I think, is to increase transparency and predictability, as we have heard in the public procurement, in the debate on the Public Procurement Act. Those are not good arguments. These are not good arguments because, in this way, we see that there will be much less public procurement procedures, not more transparency, not more predictability. This is a little bit like when the number of violations is very severe, then they quickly increase the threshold of infringement, and then they quickly become a crime, and the violations are reduced, or vice versa. Here, too, we see that if you have found too much abuse, say, any authority or even the authorities of the European Union are calling attention to too much abuse, then you need to quickly raise the value of public procurement, and then you need to do less public procurement immediately, the percentage in which you might find any kind of abuse, not least it will be possible to examine it, not least, so it is a little easier for friends and friends to distribute it. Otherwise, this will be discussed several times in the coming weeks. We always say, and it was very good to hear that not so long ago the Prime Minister said the same thing in this case, that predictability would be the most important, that predictability would be the most important. We have always criticized the government for this, too, because it is unfortunately very difficult to make a good fiscal and good tax policy, if we make the system as opaque as possible, the new taxes, the special taxes, the real taxes that have been called temporary, and then, for a very long time, they are not considered predictable by economic operators. You chose neither in the planning of the budget nor in the implementation of the budget to strive for predictability, which would increase competitiveness, investment, job creation, you did not choose this path, but you chose that path, and you were so proud to do so, that very soon, even at the end of spring, at the beginning of summer, you would create the budget. The strange situation has emerged in both years so far, that one budget has been amended and the other budget has been adopted, and the closing report has been received quite 5-6 months later, so the real facts that could have been based on the next year's budget arrived much later, sometime in November. In other words, transparency and predictability are very difficult to imagine in the event that, in the absence of facts, the first quarter of fact data starts planning the next year, while the annual budget for the year is being revised, so we know that what they had previously expected was not likely to be maintained either. There was one thing we could be sure of, the real facts, mostly half a year later, in the region of November, October and November, as we are now, we saw in the closing report. It's not about predictability. The last time you presented the budget with this need, even if these current amendments seem very technical. The last time you presented the budget in May, April-May with the intention that this stability, this predictability, will help that investor environment, will help the financial environment to choose, yes, Hungary. In this regard, we must see that this is at least ironic, that you are now asking for this amendment. We see that tax incentives are being withdrawn, their own deadlines are being pushed out, and I am sure that, Mr Secretary of State, as always, you will be able to find a reason that this is important because, in fact, there are positive shifts compared to expectations, and this has always come, but has never had any effect on predictability, no matter how good an explanation can be found. We discussed it in the debate on the Public Procurement Act, and it is necessary to say it again here, and it does not make a system more transparent if there is even less public procurement to be carried out. A system will not be more transparent by raising the thresholds where public spending is possible without public involvement and without the involvement of competitors. That's not going to increase trust, anyway, I'm pretty sure of that. I also know that there will be European standards for this, European comparisons, tens of thousands of indicators, which, by the way, do not say too much to the general public, but not least to investors. [[10.50]] They are told that now the threshold is much higher, so that farmers can make investments and purchase services on their own responsibility without applying the law itself or using the law in a specific way. If we add what will be discussed at the next agenda, that the implementation of the budget itself is much less so before Parliament, there is always an ex post reporting obligation, then we will discuss that about 150 billion have been decided again that the House will be informed afterwards. If the implementation of the budget, the establishment of the budget is not transparent, it is unsafe, it is only safe for a certain narrow layer, and for the public, Parliament and Members, it is not safe and it is not transparent, then I think, Mr State Secretary, that they are asking a lot when they ask us to support this bill, because it is very difficult to support everything in hindsight. It is very difficult to support that this system is even more opaque and unpredictable, and it is very difficult to accept that the creation of the budget, its adoption, is better said to modify it until the start of its implementation, and that any procedures without certain methods that can be learned in the profession will ultimately result in you doing so much better, and that transparency and investor will grow in Hungary. That is not what we see, nor that is what we see, that transparency is increasing. We also see in the next proposal that they spend a lot on industrial parks, which are empty, where people will not want to come, investors do not want to come, there is a great deal of labour emigration, there is a great shortage of workers, and you have produced this at the same time, and the budget numbers are basically good, but even Eurostat is currently arguing whether the data you have described is real. On the other hand, the quality and predictability of life are poor, and this is precisely shown by the desire to invest. This is because of these rules, and I think that is why we cannot support this proposal. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-42	Thank you very much. Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2016-11-11-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On the previous agenda, we talked about amending the tax laws. I have also said that it is natural for a Member to get away from the specific text of the law and to press on general social policy issues, since tax laws and social policy are linked. Although the amendment of the Budget Act is limited to a very narrow circle, the Secretary of State has explained this, but of course it also gives opposition representatives the opportunity to pursue social policy issues. With regard to the small amendment presented here, the socialist lead speaker spoke about the lack of transparency. It alone is a problem for him to adopt the budget in the middle of the year - now for several years now. We think it makes the system more transparent. The stakeholders in the budget, taxpayers, private individuals and even more businesses, are much more prepared for a given budget year. So we see this as positive that we are able to create a budget for the next year six months earlier. It wasn't always this exercise. Socialists followed the traditional practice of adopting the budget at the end of the year. For a while, we did the same routine. Now, at that time, transparency and planning were such that, by no chance or by chance, the figures that were planned in the budget were not kept for a single budget year. They have never kept the growth target, they have never been able to keep the deficit target, i.e. no major number of budgets has been achieved. We were not under the influence of the excessive deficit procedure, from which this government led Hungary. There's a reason we were thrown into a shroud where this government brought up the country. Then to criticise the budgetary planning practice, which is undoubtedly conducive to predictability, is simply incomprehensible and incomprehensible to me. I think it is right for the government to continue this practice and to adopt the budget for the next year in the middle of the year. At the same time, of course, this goes without saying that the budget law that has already been adopted must be clarified. That's what we're trying to do here. Mr Secretary of State mentioned some not-so-cardinal areas for the whole budget, as he noted that the main figures of the budget did not change in any way. The 3.1 per cent economic growth vision remains, the 2.4 per cent deficit target, and accordingly the government debt will continue to decline. In the fact that we have also made a rule in personal income tax, i.e. in tax laws, about the cafeteria rules, we are now adapting the budget law to this, and I see no problem at all, and that is what we need to do. Giving budgetary bodies until 28 December rather than 20 December the opportunity to pay what they have to pay or form a reserve in the central budget is an absolute technical issue. We've transformed the education system, and from now on we're calling it the Klebelsberg Center, which we called differently yesterday, and we're passing it through the budget law. I don't see anything wrong with this. These are so technical issues that it is simply not worth talking about. There's an area that the congressman brought up that you can talk about. Here, too, we have a practice, always defining in the budget law the figures that are the main figures for public procurement. The threshold is increased from 8 to 15 million in the case of supplies, from 15 to 25 million in the case of works, from 25 to 30 million in the case of service concessions, when no public procurement is required. When we say from this Parliament's height that we will be opaque, and this is unsustainable, it is tragic, and everyone who conducts public procurement - because, let's face it, these are Bagatell public procurements - and it is not the central government that continues these public procurements, because obviously the central government or the major institutions are not messing with 15 million; we, who were heads of budgetary bodies, have done so. But to think that the head of all budgetary bodies is a scoundrel and wants to play the rules is simply a violation of those who conduct these public procurements. It's simply lifelike to adjust these numbers and rules every year, and it's not the numbers that come out of life, it's the ones that life dictates. Whether we can change the law on public procurement, because it is also on the agenda, to increase transparency, to increase predictability, to combat abuses, is not a question of this budget, it is not a question of this law; it is not a question of these items, I think, Mr President. This draft law is eligible because it does not contain anything substantial, but contains only technical transfers. The practice that the Member criticized is that we plan the budget too early and therefore have to touch it often: we do not need to touch it often, we have touched it on technical issues, and early budget planning increases confidence, promotes transparency, and is a step that helps planning, and helps the whole economy think and encourage. Otherwise, this practice is recognised by credit rating agencies and everyone else. So I think that this practice should be continued, and this draft law can be supported as it is. Thank you.
u2016-11-11-44	Thank you very much. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, lead speaker for the Jobbik Group, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, there are a number of text-focusing proposals here that, together with changes in other laws, must be incorporated into the Kvtv., which I do not wish to say here, nor to waste, because others have already done so for me. Therefore, I would like to mention only, and only the transpositions relating to the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. [[11.00]] The inn verb also says that it only increases who covers the problem, and now I feel that the government has taken a rather significant and serious step in this direction towards covering up the problem. They say these thresholds haven't changed in ten years, it's time to change them. Now, I would like to make a parentheses comment here, and there is something else that has not been changed for ten years, let us see: for example, the basic salary of civil servants has not been changed, and on the next agenda, I would like to mention in particular the serious difficulties that the resulting social crisis is causing, which you are now trying to resolve with a further bill of smearing. If we're going to go back to what happened ten years ago, well, here's another case that could also be modified along with the multiplier table and the civil servants' payroll. Our fellow Member from Harghita said that these are not so large a sum. Indeed, a lot of money is the only way to steal. But let us not rule out the possibility here, however, that certain public procurements are not so difficult to break in time and on the subject, and so we can talk about a significant amount that you want to remove from public procurement in general. Public procurement can only be carried out according to the law. What is below is determined, let's say, by municipal regulations, i.e. municipal regulations governing procedures below the public procurement threshold or, in some other budgetary bodies, by sms. But let us say, if we look only at the municipalities, then we must say that there are many times too generously treated with delegated powers in such cases, because, let us say, alone the mayor or, better than that, the mayor and the chairman of the financial committee are entrusted with the responsibility to decide on matters of this magnitude. The fact that, of course, it is necessary to apply for three offers here in accordance with individual regulations or different regulations, let us admit, we know that in many cases it is only a formal criterion, which is not subject to particular difficulties for the municipalities to comply with. I have seen tenders received for a purchase where not only the font, the method of printing, but even the spelling error was in the same place, it was in the same way with all three of the offers received. So, we see that there is a loophole that can be opened on these occasions. I tell you frankly, Mr Secretary of State, what I do not understand is that when, in the list of corruption, Hungary is somewhere in the back row, recognised and proven by completely international organisations, when the European Commission is there to withdraw from Hungary for all EU funds, because it receives complaints with a mass of complaints that the spending and use of public funds in Hungary is inaccessible and that the number of abuses associated with it is now exceeding a critical mass that the Commission itself sees as a need for serious action here, why now. So, if this thing waited ten years, then why did you have to present it now? Until March 2017, not only do they want to write out applications for all the TOP applications, but they also want to win them with the municipalities, and from then on they can start public procurement, for all the applications, I say again. So just when there's going to be a huge crowd of resources pouring in on the municipalities, I don't know why this loophole had to be wide open to them, and even more so, it's kind of an invitation to the waltz to pass certain rules, to go beyond certain moral concerns, and I don't know why it had to be done. Obviously, the news of this will go out to the European Commission, and I am sure there will be press organisations who will do us this favor and Hungary's reputation will continue to shine a little longer in Brussels. I think that this is an extremely mistaken and very unconventional step that you have just taken here. Therefore, I must say that we, on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, will not be able to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-11-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Member László Szakács, MSZP applied for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-11-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I spoke to him, so I thought I would have to rephrase my opinion on these issues. They are talking about Bóvli category and qualification, and that, after all, it was this determined design that brought the qualification, and it was the much earlier planning, and it was the adoption of the budget in May that brought the predictability that made Hungary qualified. That's not true. How many years have we been adopting the budget in May? Two years. How many times have you been waiting for that Friday day when we're gonna be certified right now, and you're gonna be disappointed? And on each occasion, these rating agencies have also said that the structural deficit that comes up in the Hungarian budget is what worries them most, and that it is the unpredictable thing that worried them. The SAO has described that there is a problem with a lot of above-open appropriations. They have a problem with the huge reserve requirement, and last but not least the exchange rate risk that the budget is running during these periods, because in May we should tell what will happen, say, in December of next year. I think that if we demand more predictability in this regard, so that Hungary's budget is not planned on the basis of quarterly facts, and we are constantly holding on to this, then we believe that we are not making such a very big mistake. About the ratings, so much that we've just returned to the 2010 predictability level, so it took about six years to accept and understand your unorthodox economic policy. The question is whether it will remain this way for a very, very long time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-48	Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches from our representatives. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, a speaker seeking a normal word. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I read the proposal 3. I was absolutely certain that from the opposition side, the main direction of attack would be that the government intended to raise these thresholds because it could provide greater opportunities for certain circles. I had no doubt this would be the number one attack site. I firmly believe that we must compare national interests, municipal interests, and the interests of all of us at a time when we take a stand on one of these issues. Real cases of corruption and real corruption must not only be persecuted, but should be explored, investigated and punished under the strictest control. To the fullest extent, I do not only agree, but I believe that this is what the government side would like to fully represent. But the fact is - and this must be clearly seen - that there are restrictive deadlines for EU proposals, for grants from the European Union, and also for how this can be allocated and how long it can be allocated. These are circumstantial tasks. Hungary is in a position today in this area, for a reason, that I believe that among all the European states that receive such subsidies, it is somewhere in the very first line of use, and also in the area of use, in its effectiveness. It's a very important item. [[11.10]] It is also an important item, and I agree with my fellow Members on this, that their monitoring should be very decisive. But I am convinced that this is not the way to tie hands by keeping certain thresholds at levels which, I must say, do not really correspond to reality, but must find solutions where there are strong and firm controls. The recent ministerial expression on this issue was very firmly pointed in this direction. He clearly said that the head of the portfolio concerned would not only be firm in this regard, but they would be consistent, and they would strongly pursue any corruption phenomenon that might arise. It cannot be disputed that the opposition's task is to indicate where it sees such a phenomenon. Your job is to act on this, but the effectiveness of the opposition, and I do not want to advise you now, will be greatly reduced if you regularly and often come up with cases that will eventually prove that it has not happened, that it has not happened, that is not the fact that it has been shown. I am therefore convinced that it is only the thorough and real results that can bring some success in this respect. Therefore, for my part, I believe that this increase is specifically intended to provide faster, safer solutions and to make better use of the opportunities that, let us say, cannot be told how long they will be available. They are at our disposal for a limited period of time, no one knows what will be here after 2020. The opportunities that can now be seized must therefore be put to the good of the country. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-11-50	Dear Parliament, I'll ask you if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-11-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments. I think that the comments, the comments, were focused on two issues. The first of these two issues is what is included in the bill before the Honourable Parliament, namely, the increase of national thresholds for public procurement. The other issue, which was discussed, was about predictability. The first subject for the public procurement thresholds, let me say that the proposed amendment is in line with the amendment of the public procurement law before Parliament, which aims to make public procurement simpler but also stricter. Thank you very much, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, for your comments. I would add his arguments by saying that this simpler and stricter procedure means not only that certain national thresholds are increasing, but also that, under the Public Procurement Act, at least three tenders are required for larger purchases than HUF 1 million, according to the proposed amendment. I think this is very important, because we are not talking about ordering anyone directly for a supply of HUF 10 million, but we are talking about asking for at least three offers over HUF 1 million as a new rule. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said that these proposals could be played out. Please, all budgetary bodies have internal audits, and Kehi's institution is in operation, the institution of the State Audit Office is in operation, which can verify the use of all public funds and, indeed, the use of public funds can be verified by the European Union authorities in respect of EU funds. An account shall be given to the institution for which it has made a purchase, where such an investigation reveals an error. I join in what Mr Béla Turi-Kovács said, where there is an irregularity, action must be taken for everyone. I therefore believe that, with regard to public procurement, it is not only worth examining the amendment in the Finance Act, but also the amendment in the Public Procurement Act that lies before the Honourable Parliament. As regards the second question, predictability, I am in dispute with Mr János Harghitai, Member of Parliament, whether or not the budgetary policy that the government has been operating since 2010 strengthens predictability. I think that predictability in the budget area is strengthened by the government's commitment to public finances. We also know a period from the history of Hungary, and we know of European Union countries that can be considered unpredictable in terms of numbers. I see that since 2010, the government has fulfilled its commitments. This is the primary requirement for predictability. In addition to the adoption of the budget, I think that a previous budget does strengthen predictability for businesses, as they know what tax environment they should operate in next year, strengthens predictability for families, as they know, for example, how some basic food VAT changes, for example, in the case of Hungary, will decrease, strengthen predictability for financial and real economic investors, and strengthen predictability for the institutions that judge Hungary. If we look at the institutions, then the European Commission, the often mentioned credit rating agencies and other international organisations have also considered that the early budget has strengthened predictability, if you like, yes, this step was also an element in the series of steps that have led to Hungary being in the category recommended for investment in all three major credit rating agencies. This predictability, this stability, which was created by the Government and Parliament in the summer of this year for 2017 with the decision of the Government and Parliament for the year 2017, will not be affected by the amendment before you. I therefore believe that the objectives of economic policy, which are characterised by an increase of more than 3 per cent in terms of social policy in terms of the increase in incomes of the broadest possible layers, and the strengthening of predictability, remain in the event of the adoption of the 2017 draft budget bill. Therefore, with respect, I propose once again to the Parliament that the proposal be adopted later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it was possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/12736. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor once again to Minister of State of Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2016-11-11-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Strengthening responsible and predictable fiscal management remains a key government objective. Taking this into account, it is necessary to make the management of budgetary bodies even more transparent in order to provide an efficient and effective public service. This is a priority for the various control mechanisms, which provide a guarantee of identifying and correcting any shortcomings that may arise in budgetary management as soon as possible. In view of the above, the bill before you contains a number of amendments which make responsible budgetary management even tighter and more consistent. [[11.20]] In addition to the Public Finance Act, the Government proposes to amend the Act on Hungary's economic stability and four other related laws. Please allow me to highlight the most important of the proposed amendments. The amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability means reducing the administrative burden, since it does not require the government's prior authorisation to replace its debt elements with a more favourable arrangement by municipalities and 100% municipal owned companies. The bill concerns several aspects of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Effective management is facilitated by changes in the regulation of chapter stability reserves established by the Central Budget Act. The essence of this is that reserves may be used in order to ensure new tasks not included in the Central Budget Act, as well as to provide cover for the expansion of existing tasks, and to encourage disciplined and efficient management. The detailed rules will be determined by a government decree on the basis of the mandate of the Public Finance Act. The bill will make it more flexible to amend appropriations for the implementation of fixed-term projects as so-called centralised appropriations, which do not have a residence permit. This will make it safer to do so. For example, in the case of large investments, if a smaller amount is used in the first year of the investment than planned, it will be possible to increase the available amount in the following year in order to carry out the project, taking into account the original approved budgetary frameworks. The bill states that, in the case of appropriations managed by a chapter for which commitments exceed one year or cover several years, following the publication of the Central Budget Act for the following year, the commitment shall be based on the initial appropriations laid down in the central budget for the following year. The new rule under which, in this case, appropriations managed by a chapter may be committed up to the total amount of the appropriations laid down by law, is expected to allow more sound budgetary spending. To put it simply, I can also say that, for the 2017 budget, today, a payment obligation can be made on the total amount of expenditure figures in the adopted budget law for next year. The rules in force contain different provisions. In order to stabilise the revenue side of the budget, the guarantee rule is that in future the budgetary bodies will have to collect all items constituting fines and similar centralised revenue, such as toll revenues, into the centralised collection account set up for this purpose by the Hungarian Treasury. This rule is linked to the amendment of Act V of 2006 on business registers, court proceedings and winding-up, the essence of which is to ensure that the smooth implementation of the service of tasks related to the company's proceedings continues to be ensured by ensuring that the revenues thus deducted are adequately compensated by the central budget. The accuracy of budgetary planning is enhanced by the rule that allows the government to impose a reporting obligation on the expected revenue and expenditure of appropriations under the central sub-scheme of general government. If the forecasts prove to be inaccurate, they may result in a legal consequence. In this case, the amendment allows the government to impose an obligation to pay or to reduce the free appropriations set by a decree. This provision therefore encourages all central budgetary bodies to implement the budget approved by Parliament in a more precise manner. The quality reporting of the municipal subsystem is also essential for budgetary planning and for a realistic overview of public finances. Therefore, municipalities which do not properly carry out their reporting activities may still be subject to fines. The rule of payment of these is amended to the extent that, in the case of municipalities belonging to the joint office, in the future, the fine should be imposed against the local government of the seat of the joint municipal office, since the joint office is responsible for the duties of all municipalities. However, the bill also allows for the waiver of the fine if the local government proves that it has provided for the conditions of work, so it has not only entered the joint office nominally and replaced its omissions. In addition to the fine, it should also be pointed out that employees of local governments and central budgetary bodies providing timely and accurate data can receive separate remuneration. Thus, the government is already operating a system that it now wishes to clarify, which pays the exact reporting and, in the event of a derogation, provides for a sanction. Dear House, Allow me to summarise in a few sentences some of the above mentioned additional amendments to the law relating to public finances. The amendment of the Law on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys of State allows political leaders to be nominated to the liquidity committee and the resolution fund and to become members of the management bodies of state-owned capital funds. I think that this amendment also links the responsibility of the state, the government, to the personal responsibility of political leaders in the areas highlighted in the use of public funds. The amendments to the Act on the National Bank of Hungary serve to expand the powers of the financial reconciliation body, in particular to broaden consumer interests. Finally, the amendment to the Law on the Renewal and Development of the City Park aims to address certain details related to the renewal and development of the City Park. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the proposals for amendments presented above are suitable for achieving the regulatory objective set and for making the system of budget planning, implementation and enforcement control more efficient and predictable, since strict management discipline is a fundamental requirement for public finances. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to discuss the bill and to adopt it later. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-54	Thank you very much. This is the speech of the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2016-11-11-55	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us initiates a number of amendments to legislation in order to create the necessary legal coherence for responsible budgetary management. The amendment to the Act on Hungary's economic stability is justified by the fact that, in the future, the debt elements of a company owned by a municipality can be replaced by a more favourable arrangement without the government's permission. Given that this transaction does not increase the level of public debt, the government's contribution is therefore unjustified. The amendment of the Public Finance Act is due, inter alia, to the adaptation of the rules on the use of Chapter Stability Reserves. The new rule generally states that they can be used to ensure that new tasks are not included in the Central Budget Act and that existing tasks are extended, and to encourage disciplined and efficient management. A further important rule will be the collection of revenue that the fine which cannot be used by the budgetary body and any revenue constituting the centralised revenue of the central budget under the legislation can only be collected for centralised direct debit accounts established for this purpose at the Treasury. There will also be a change in the information provided by the municipalities. It appears as a new rule that, in the future, the failure to carry out the reporting should be imposed on the local self-government of the joint municipal office, since the joint office is responsible for carrying out the duties of all local government offices. However, the bill allows the Treasury to waive the fine if the local government proves that it has provided for the conditions of the work and replaced its omissions. The amendment of the law on the basis of which Hungary's central budget was founded in 2017 constitutes an important change in order to ensure that, in future, not only the payment obligation of a final and enforceable court decision, the municipality and its 100%-owned company can generate debt, but also the amount of a final and enforceable order for payment of the same kind. I would like to draw attention to two other amendments. By amending the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, the powers of the financial reconciliation body would also be increased, which serves to widen consumer interests. [[11.30]] Finally, the purpose of the amendment to the Law on the renewal and development of the City Park is to resolve certain details related to the renewal and development of the City Park. Please support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-11-56	Thank you very much. Congressman László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here.
u2016-11-11-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We cannot share the joy that we have heard so far, how much more effective, flexible and better, under the law on public finances, the room for manoeuvre that the government gives to itself and the government gives to political leaders. In fact, we see the other half of this, that, on the other hand, Parliament's supervisory role is further reduced, the professional management of professional bodies is further reduced, whereas it will be the political officers who will be able to take part in the decision-making process there. Therefore, it is possible to make it flexible, so to say, but in fact to dilute and loosen the conflict of interest rules that can show a next step in breaking down the system of brakes and counterweights. On the one hand, in the central budget, the Stability Reserve does not currently contain any efficiency stimulus elements, and it will now be entrusted with a government regulation. So we're actually not going to be able to decide that here in Parliament. From now on, the Minister for Public Finance will be able to decide on real estate developments and purchases and the management of this appropriation without further delay. You are referring to flexibility, we are saying intransparency. It would be okay if, let's say, the implementation of the Hungarian budget, the construction of a real estate portfolio in the Hungarian budget, especially with the increased public procurement thresholds, the renovation, ordering and carrying out of that real estate portfolio, the public finance management at the level of the budget would not go down, let's say, to the level of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank in these procedures. I think they are following the wrong path when they think that the right direction is followed by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, where we have also heard that public money has lost its public money - it was not true. They said they didn't have to conduct a public procurement procedure - that wasn't true either. There should have been a public procurement procedure and continued public funding. At least no one here disputes the public money character, but this flexibility, I think, could be left to a slightly more rigid rule-making work and, otherwise, to a better use of Parliament's supervisory system, to assist the government. We would, of course, give our criticism of them, but at least then they would not have to be a political responsibility in these matters, but they might be able to support these proposals if you could convince your own faction. What Mr. State Secretary said was that the liquidity committee and the resolution fund and other state-owned capital funds could now have a place for administrative leaders and politicians, and therefore the conflict of interest rules had to be relaxed, as politicians could also assume personal responsibility. I should've done it before. You're welcome to take personal responsibility. You should have just given up being politicians. That's exactly what conflict of interest is about. It's not about not being able to, it's about choosing one of the two. Either you are very, very professional about the work of these bodies because you have the professional skills to be independent of current political expectations and stand up for your professionalism, or you say that I want to continue to be political, and I want to continue to monitor social policy principles and world market developments in the future, and I am trying to give an opinion on it based on a right- or left-wing, conservative or progressive set of values. I can also participate in decision-making bodies, such as Parliament's Committee, its plenary session and the individual factions. You guys are gonna wash these up. With all the financial scandals behind their backs that just happened last year. The DRW Bank, the Buda-Cash, the Quaestor. We see what's happening to the Nut Tree Fund right now, the Speders. How, by the way, we managed to lose control of large state companies for HUF 50 million, and so on. So sending political officers to state-owned capital markets funds, I think, on the one hand, it's facial toaster, on the other hand, it's either unreasonable or it's believed that your presence is at least as disciplined. If I'm going to give you a very benign explanation that your presence in one of these bodies is, in itself, a discipline that will certainly affect what you think. We can see that they have already increased their own margin of manoeuvre in recent years. We continue to think that if we have to report in hindsight that some appropriations have been created, that some appropriations have been increased by political decision, it is a government of the Financial Regulation. We continue to say that in this respect, in terms of budgetary discipline, compliance with the budget and transparency, it is not about speed and simplicity, but about predictability and accuracy. I think that's what you need to pay the most attention to. You've been able to unwind this endlessly over the past few years. Parliament's competence for the budget was slowly limited to the establishment of the main figures and the management of its own chapter. All the rest will be reported to us at some point and then decided by the majority factions. They have the spirit to know that what has already been decided will be a debate. They should be interested in what changes have already been decided to make. Because they will accept it, I'm sure, because your party discipline is much greater than anywhere else. By the way, what I'm about to say is largely supported by the Minister of National Economy's announcement of 9 November. Mihály Varga announced the spending of some HUF 130-135 billion in favourable budgetary processes without consulting Parliament. It will raise the framework of the Modern Cities Programme by 30 billion; NGM will provide increased support for industrial parks, which will amount to approximately HUF 60 billion in extra expenditure; Eximbank will be recapitalised from HUF 45 billion - by itself recapitalisation of Eximbank would be a specific issue. Very few people know that because his activity does not refer to his name anymore, does it not, that he is an export-import bank; this is the bank that helped Andy Vajna to buy television, which has not been taxed in Hungary since then. And they are expanding the guarantee instruments, and they want to shift the growth without credit to growth from bank loans and raise the framework for investments and renovations. Mr. Secretary. I'm not saying there aren't any good goals. But I would love to discuss these here. Because some of them are bad, and Hungary has bigger problems. We believe that this can be a value-based debate, and there can be a professional debate about what more money should be spent in Hungary at the end of the year when the cold gets cold, when many people lose their jobs, when they can't find a job, when there are conditions that we see around us, there could have been a lot of money. It shouldn't be a press conference for a congressman, I might add, for the pro-government. You need to explain this much more than we do, why the government is spending what Mihály Varga is about to announce, why not in your district something you consider important. Why do cities have to take out loans there, why do settlements have to take out loans in order to meet the needs of the city, the voters. I think that you would be as interested in them as we are in our interests. I am sure there are good goals among these, and I very much hope that this HUF 45 billion will not be given to Eximbank because Andy Vajna will start at least five more channels, and then it will be able to replace space with all the educational channels. And then really Andy Vajna will be the, come home, young man! The only real winner of the program is that every domestic operation will be spent by the export-import bank under her maiden name, not on export, not on import, but on a Hungarian business. [[11.40]] I trust that's not why we're raising capital. But these goals could be debated here. You have created a situation where this cannot be debated. You can argue on media platforms, and you can explain at home on the pro-government side why these money doesn't go to what your constituents think is important. I do not think that they think that the recapitalisation of Eximbank is the most important issue, and therefore we will not support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-58	Thank you. Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2016-11-11-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The philosophical difference between opposition representatives and government representatives in the negotiation of such a law is clearly always unsolvable. What is this debate about? The opposition representative sees that we have drawn up a budget law, in which we give the government a relatively large freedom of movement during implementation, and the opposition representative has fewer opportunities to control the budget, says Mr Szakács. I'm not saying he's wrong from his point of view. We, on the other hand, say that from the budget we have created, we expect the government to implement it effectively. This requires room for manoeuvre, especially in such an economic environment that we are still in. I am thinking about the movements of the world economy, and not to mention the tragic situation from which this country had to be led. That would require quick decisions and movement for the government. Of course, as a pro-government representative, I say that the government will also serve the Parliament's confidence in this regard, because if there is no question of the performance of this government, it is what it has done in budgetary management over the past period, because it is predictable, consistent, hard, and it has a result, because we are enhanced by credit rating agencies because we have come out of the buoy. It can therefore be clearly demonstrated that what the government has been able to do or to do is effective with the scope that we have set for it, which is undoubtedly - I accept Mr Cook's argument - more flexible than we did yesterday. It's just that we value it as a positive, because it has results. An opposition representative always obviously thinks differently about these issues. The government has also had careful planning for many years. One form of careful planning is when it does not allow spending without necks in its own system of institutions, but with huge reserves, and reserves can only be touched if the budget figures are as planned by the government. There are other provisions in relation to different reserves which support rational management, as the rapporteur states in the general statement of reasons. I would like to highlight things here, especially for information purposes, because people from local governments may also follow our legislation; it is good to follow them, especially when it comes to budgetary issues, and what I will highlight in relation to local governments, I really intend to do so as information to them. One of them is that they have to prepare a liquidity plan. The revenue of the municipalities is different from that of their spending. Indeed, much of their income is acquired in connection with tax revenues during spring and autumn. In the future, in order to bring the two together, local authorities, national authorities, regional development associations and the budgetary bodies managed by them will draw up this liquidity plan. It is an important change, and it is good to pay attention to this, because this can lead to a debate in the local government world; the municipalities usually operate in common offices. Baranya is a tiny village, typical of us. At least 2,000 people had to come together to create such a common office, which often justified the collaboration of 7-8 settlements in Baranya, so that such a joint office could function. In the event of non-reporting obligations, for which it is obvious that the Office, the notary at the head of the Office, is responsible, if these reporting obligations are not fulfilled and the possibility of finening comes, in the future, the recipient of the fine will be the local government of the seat, even if another settlement fails to make a reporting error. The government's aim is to ensure that this joint office actually functions as a joint office, and not just formality of the local government's association. But I can already see that this regulation will have problems, so the notaries who run this system should pay attention to these changes now. There is also a loophole, a softer rule, that, considering life, the Treasury has the possibility of releasing this fine under certain conditions. I would like to draw attention to one more thing as an interesting fact. It is self-critical to note that this was a loophole with which, as head of a budgetary body, I lived as head of a government office; it is now closed. The budgetary body has not used a fine or other revenue which the budgetary body produces for the central budget, which has often failed to comply with, we have not paid it to the budget as we say the central budget would have expected. There was no particular penalty for this. In the future, this loophole will be closed, because these revenues can only be collected into a centralised collection account set up for this purpose by the Treasury, and these amounts will be entered into the account, and the collector does not provide for these amounts, since this was already addressed to the central budget. That question will be resolved. I'm telling you, I'm going to say self-critically that I've taken advantage of this soft rule, that we've managed these resources temporarily, but from the point of view of the central budget, this is undoubtedly a rational step. Obviously, the bill will be supported by our faction. [[Peter Benő Banai applauds.]]
u2016-11-11-60	Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In a somewhat unorthodox way, I would like to return to the previous agenda for a sentence. Mr. Secretary, believe me, you can document anything you want, the local authorities. With regard to small purchases of this kind, when indeed, as our fellow Member Turi-Kovács has said, time is running out a lot, this papering can be unheard of. I understand that it is particularly important to comply with certain rules, and that the spirit of the rules, the law, should be respected, not only the letter, but by opening a loophole, not only to close it, but to open it wide and open it into a huge gate, it is definitely the wrong way - the wrong way. With regard to the bill before us, given that it affects certain laws in so many different ways and in so many different ways, I would like to put my point on several points. The first is that in relation to debt-generating transactions, on which the Stability Act 10/D. and 10/E. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr So they're going to further clarify this section. In fact, we can absolutely support this, and I would like to reiterate what we have said before, that you said that you limit borrowing only a hundred percent for municipal-owned companies, and now also the debt renewal contract. I think it's a rule that's very easy to play or override. A public service contract can easily be concluded with a company in which 50 percent plus 1 is owned by the municipality. [[11.50]] I think that this should at least be linked to significant influence, because then the municipality will stand up to its company. And it is also a matter of this that, in many cases - let us admit it self-critically - when the borrowing of local governments has been regulated and broken down by you, some of these transactions have indeed been hidden in some companies, and if there is no clarification in this respect regarding the 100 percent now, how the government thinks this part will remain, then indeed this option will remain with the municipalities. So if you're 99 percent owner of a utility company, you can practically borrow unlimitedly? That's what this text says to me, and that's not a good direction. The fact that, in connection with the development and purchase of real estate in connection with MNV Zrt. - this has already been said earlier - will be the single decision of the Minister for Public Finance on what he spends and on what scale, we believe, will also strengthen transparency and give rise to certain irrationalities. The next essential point is the problem of Treasury, municipality and fine. Government agencies can impose fines under their judicial supervision procedures, impose fines of this type on a very wide scale, and then pay them to the Treasury. This is where, as I said at the previous item on the agenda, I believe that in some respects this is a historical amendment, because we have never seen such a text before in the draft laws you have submitted, where it is acknowledged that some kind of deficiency has occurred - let us say, in the local government or in any budgetary body - because they simply cannot upload the numbers, which is because there is a recognised number of civil servants, this is extremely small on one side and uncharged on the other side. For example, the question of colleagues in finance. Why is that? Because the allowance that can be paid on the basis of the civil servants' payroll, the salary is so low that colleagues with such qualifications simply don't go to work. They do not go to work in local governments, because in companies, so in the private sector, they receive multiples of this by default, and they have no idea, therefore, of some kind of service, shortening themselves, being state officials or government civil servants. I think this is a very serious confession, as you have described here, that it is not possible for the municipalities to fulfil certain obligations because they are having problems of this magnitude simply because of the economic policy that you are undertaking. This is now a huge problem for small municipalities and smaller municipal offices. There are settlements in which the notary has a financial degree in which he can also carry out financial department management tasks, so the workload has multiplied in his case, because they simply cannot perform these tasks in any other way. They can't hire people, and I'm gonna add, it's not even a small town. There is simply no man to perform the task. Secretary of State, if and if you are not willing to touch this sector, whether it is a civil servant's basic salary, and not by giving the municipalities a diversion from it as an opportunity to pay their own income, but by saying that the state budget says that after 38 650 years, we are now going to deviate, and let's say 45 thousand forints, the multipliers will be increased compared to that, and now they can give these people a fair wage by the central budget financing them to a large extent, this problem cannot be solved otherwise, only in this way, in this form. What's crazy is that otherwise this would be a burden for the budget. Oh, yeah. I will say in the near future other expenditures, such as an investment, which could solve this problem once and for all from a fraction of the planned cost. It's just a matter of government will. The question is why the government refuses to do so. Probably because he specifically condemned this sector to death and does not want to maintain even the two thousand headcount limit, but wants to place the limit on the establishment of an independent municipal office to five thousand people. It is the steps taken in this direction, or the absence of certain steps, that will clarify this government's intention for us. The next point I would like to comment on is the City Park Act. At the time, the City Grove Act gave all of Városliget's real estate properties to a 100% state-owned Városliget Real Estate developer, in Hungarian to the trustee for 99 years. In this context, you have classified the City Park as a major investment in the national economy. That means the Ket. Városliget's investment will be completely exonerated from its procedures, so en bloc. Other laws have been removed, the City Park is withdrawn. Therefore, you have given practically every possibility of acceleration to this investment, so I must tell you frankly, I do not understand why it is necessary in this law that you effectively sue this certain trustee under a static procedure, which means that in relation to all utilities owned by the municipalities, if the owners of the municipalities and of individual utilities do not ankle to this trustee, they may be sued for all kinds of damages, and they may be able to pin all costs on them, so much so that, in connection with the investment of the City Park, the costs of public works, renovations, demolitions and other replacements should be shared with these municipalities in accordance with the text of the law. They may not have planned it, they didn't even have the mind to touch the public utility network, there's enough problems, there's enough problems in Budapest, we know that it's not planned there, it's almost envelopable, but in this respect, I say once again, they're practically giving this trustee a pallos rights. This can mean an incredible amount of money, because you, just because you want to build the City Park, are going to start building on a very large scale, which in many cases requires considerable utility capacity, and the cost is considerable. So you're creating a very seriously encoded dispute here, and it's going to cause a lot of problems. We know that there are several municipalities in the immediate vicinity of this investment, not necessarily those that were so eager to support this investment, but we know that this investment is now also affecting the Fort of Komárom, and it is also affecting the area of the hospital in Szabolcs Street, so this problem is greatly swollen. Therefore, it is not certain that the negative criticisms of the Mayor of Zugló are necessary to create such a law, but that other municipalities are also likely to have concerns about the investment. So, overall, I have to say that we will certainly not be able to support the bill before us, because it provides not only exceptional opportunities for the government, but also a privileged situation for certain companies created by the government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.00]]
u2016-11-11-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee has discussed the bill and formed the following opinion with 13 unanimous votes in favour. In addition to planning rules, the sound implementation of the budget is primarily ensured by the commitment rules. The level of commitments is limited by law. On the one hand, the amendment of the law governing public finances before us aims at establishing the planned Chapter Stability Reserves. It is proposed that the reserve should be set up to ensure that new tasks are not included in the central budget or that the tasks already included are enlarged. In order to finance fixed-term projects, it has become easier to shape appropriations. Based on the justification for the amendment directly affecting nationalities, if the law on the central budget for the following year has already been published, the multi-annual commitment will be based on the initial appropriations established in the following year's budget. A commitment may be made up to 100% of the initial appropriations for the year and up to 50% of the initial appropriations for the collection and other operational expenditure. According to the proposed amendment, Treasury may release the fine imposed on small municipalities who demonstrate that the conditions for work have been met and that they have replaced the outstanding tasks. I would like to make a small observation here that we are proposing to reconsider the rules on the use of aid to national authorities, as these municipalities are subject to rules on the operation and management of local authorities. National authorities do not carry out tasks such as local authorities, and they are required to carry out these tasks when carrying out checks. This was mainly contested by the SAO in the latter SAO report. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, if we can sit down on this matter - as representatives of the national authorities - we will discuss these control processes. Overall, the proposed amendments make the law simpler and more comprehensible, so I propose that the bill be adopted on behalf of our committee. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-11-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. Mr László Szakács has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-11-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I called him again. I think that, of course, there may be a contradiction in the fact that the pro-governments think that there is more room for manoeuvre, the opposition thinks that Parliament needs much less room for manoeuvre and as much reporting as possible, but somewhere from the basic point of view that the government has to report to Parliament and the government is responsible for Parliament, not in hindsight, but in advance, I think we should agree. The second thing that we should do once in relation to the qualification: Hungary, the Hungarian economy and the budget were taken over by Viktor Orbán as a country in good economic situation and good financial condition, based on a declaration made in October 2010. That is what the Prime Minister said, and I expect you will not question the word of your own Prime Minister. When Hungary was downgraded, it was November 24, 2011, when it was moody's downgrade, and that's when Hungary was cut into a bovli category. I will ask Minister Mihály Varga soon, because there were other measures at the time who the Minister of Economy was, because I read in his letter that György Matolcsy does not remember what needs to be done then, or he does not wish to comment on what happened then. During the period since then, the price of the current rating has been paid by a lot of people. There was, by the way, the damaged exchange rate, which led to the situation of foreign exchange credentialers in the situation they were in, on nationalised private pension assets, education, public administration financing and the situation, the salaries of civil servants, the financing of health care, doctors, nurses, economic and technical staff, not least the situation of patients. They are the ones who paid the price for this rating, but the downgrade was on November 24, 2011. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-11-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? Here you go, Secretary of State of Banai.
u2016-11-11-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There have been several comments in the debate which, I believe, are only metaphorically linked to the bill before you, but need to be responded. Mr Cook said that the bill will further reduce Parliament's control role. I do not see this intention, this provision, in the proposal for a bill submitted, or Mr President said that the government is, after all, accountable to Parliament for the implementation of the budget. I fully agree with this statement, and allow me, Mr President, to draw attention to the fact that in many cases before 2010, we saw budget implementation that resulted in a difference of several hundred billion forints compared to the budget adopted by the Parliament, not once, on several occasions. We know exactly what deficit and debt figures Hungary has produced, and we know exactly what their relationship was with the budget originally adopted by the Parliament. However, I see a significant change in this respect after 2010. In addition to the figures, let me also draw attention to the fact that the government at all times - the government at all times - regardless of its support, within the meaning of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act not only has to draw up a closing account, but also during the year, on the basis of the six-month figures, on the basis of the revenue and expenditure numbers of the budget, the competent committee of Parliament or the Fiscal Council should report whether or not the debt reduction target laid down in the Fundamental Law can be met. Under the legal provisions in force today, if, on the basis of the six-month report, the Government considers that the debt reduction target originally laid down is not met, it is obliged to bring the amendment of the budget law to Parliament. This is a new control that was not part of the Hungarian legal order before 2010 and according to which the government has to report to Parliament not only at the closing date, but also in the implementation of the budget. Mr. Congressman said that there is too much room for budgetary manoeuvre and that the government is free to decide on too much. It is true that, under the budgetary framework approved by Parliament, I stress: within the framework, the government has the right to redeployment. When Minister Mihály Varga spoke about proposing new expenditure to boost the economy on the basis of a favourable budgetary situation that has not been seen for 15 years, he said that, in view of the favourable position seen by Parliament, it is possible to carry out additional expenditure so that, at the same time, the debt reduction rule and deficit target adopted by Parliament can be met. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that Minister Mihály Varga spoke not only about what new expenditure he will propose in order to boost the economy, but also about the possible implementation of new expenditure within this year's deficit target of 2% GDP. So what I see is that there is no change in the post-2010 processes, in the new legislative environment and in the legislative amendment that is now before the Honourable Parliament, there is no new direction under which the government can exceed the limits set by Parliament. [[12.10]] As far as ratings are concerned, the Member pointed out at the previous item that Hungary was returned to the category in which it was in 2010 at the three major credit rating agencies in 2016. The Member is absolutely right in this regard. It should also be seen that the situation that marked Hungary during the economic crisis - and I could say 2008 and 2009 here, and undoubtedly also the time of the 2010 change of government - was a rather difficult situation, a situation whose problems could not be solved in a year. Let's go to Europe. Let us look at those countries that were in a similar economic situation as Hungary. Not only couldn't solve the problems in six years, some of them are even deeper than they were five or six years ago. I would also remind the Member that market investors do not see Hungary as a country recommended for investment in 2016, whose sovereign debt is safe, but as a Hungarian country risk premium, the yield levels of Hungarian sovereign debt were comparable years ago to those of the countries recommended for investment. And I note in parentheses that it is really thoughtful that Hungary came into the category not recommended for investment when the Parliament decided on an extremely strict Fundamental Law, decided to reduce debt when the government decided on immediate government balance measures in 2010, and indeed, credit rating agencies left Hungary in the category recommended for investment, when in the previous decade there were six consecutive years, when our deficit was the largest or the second largest among the European Union countries when our public debt increased significantly. This is already a subjective debate that we have had with these credit rating agencies, and I see that today the results that market investors have assessed years ago show that the growth of the Hungarian economy has exceeded the EU average after 2013, the number of employees has grown substantially, the general government deficit has been low, and these figures have also convinced the credit rating agencies that the economic policy model chosen by the government is successful and can continue to be successful in the future. This is why Hungary is already in the category recommended for investment by all three credit rating agencies this year. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs pointed out that it is worth thinking about the fact that government control may be worthwhile in a debt-carrying transaction for companies not solely owned by a hundred percent municipality. That's something to think about. I think it is a serious issue of public law, namely whether it is possible for private companies to borrow public control. So I think that this is a legal issue that may need to be examined. Here, however, we also need to see that we are also talking about a provision that was not part of the Hungarian legal order before 2010. The government's ability to control the government's debt collection and the debt collection of 100% local government-owned companies is in the process of meeting the budget deficit targets and fulfilling the general government data adopted by the Parliament. In this respect, I believe that the current amendment is a bureaucracy, a reduction in administration, since it is not a requirement for municipalities or companies owned by 100% to request government permission in the event that their existing loans are replaced with more favourable conditions. The congresswoman said that because of the government's economic policy, the municipalities cannot carry out their duties, and if I quote the Member precisely, she also said that the municipal sector is a doomed sector. Allow me to argue with these - I think - strong statements on the basis of factual information. According to the Parliament's decision, the government has taken over nearly HUF 1300 billion of debts from the municipalities in several steps, and decided to modify the state's performance of tasks in parallel, and also decided to modify the funding system. A number of tasks have come from the municipalities to the state, and together with this change of task, the already mentioned debt transfer and the amendment of the financing system, I can now report to the Honourable Parliament that, contrary to the period before 2010, when the local government sector was characterised by an annual deficit, I have been able to report for years on the surplus of the municipal system. The data that thus shows a surplus on the annual level for municipalities tells me that this sector is financially on its own feet. As regards the potential of local authorities in terms of wage increases, in addition to the fact that there have been surpluses in the municipal sector as a whole in recent years - and I think that based on the available data there is a strong chance for this year too - we need to see that municipalities have a free right to levy taxes. Congresswoman, you can exercise that right. And allow me to say one more thing. In the case of several municipalities, or in the case of groups of municipalities, we looked at the wages. It must be seen that a number of municipalities are using the rental option [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] And he doesn't employ civil servants at the minimum legal level. We have a number of statistics on this. I agree with the congresswoman that there is a range of municipalities, typically smaller municipalities, where there is less possibility of levying new taxes, where, by reason of the nature of the enterprises operating in the municipality, there is a narrower scope for financial manoeuvre, and it is therefore also necessary to see that, in these municipalities, joint administration is an opportunity to deal with the problems, and it must also be seen that, in addition to the steps already mentioned in these municipalities, the government, by introducing the so-called ASP system, seeks to provide public services with state aid. In this respect, the proposal before the Honourable Parliament makes clear the responsibility that may exist in the case of a joint office with regard to the reporting of information by local authorities or with regard to sanctions or incentives related to the provision of data. Finally, let me mention, among those mentioned by the Member, at the City Park, that the Parliament has already made a decision on the matter once, has passed a separate law allowing the renewal of the City Park. There are many debates on this issue, there have been a number of debates, but I think that once again, for government officials, for government leaders, it must be the decision of Parliament, which now only clarifies the proposal before you, does not affect the basic objectives. The aim is therefore to renew Városliget, also in its green area, to increase the green surface and to create new cultural facilities. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]] [[12.20]]
u2016-11-11-68	Finally, I thank Mr Varga Simeon for his words. Of course, the government will be open to consultation in the future, as has been the case so far, and at this point I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that the proposal tabled is set out in Rule 14. It also includes a minor amendment to the local minority self-governments, which also facilitates the lives of local minority self-governments, since it makes it clear that the municipal authorities are responsible for providing the information on the data that the local self-government has to provide in terms of the expenditure and revenue numbers of the minority self-governments. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. Act 1 and Act CXXIV of 2015 on National Accreditation General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/12697. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2016-11-11-69	First, I give the floor to Mr István Lepsényi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary. Here you go. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the proposed amendment to the law before you is to ensure international recognition of the new national accreditation system established on 1 January 2016, i.e. to grant the National Accreditation Authority, hereinafter referred to as the NAH, a full membership of the European Accreditation Cooperation Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the EA MLA. The national accreditation body should be a member of the so-called European Accreditation Cooperation (EA) and international mutual recognition agreements. In practice, this means that the test results and certificates of organisations accredited by the National Accreditation Board will become recognised by the accreditation bodies and authorities of all countries which are members of the international organisation and to which 98 percent of our exports are otherwise directed. It is therefore essential for the national economy to ensure membership and thus mutual recognition. The European Commission has examined the legal environment of the new national accreditation system in a pilot procedure, subject to EU legal requirements, and EA has conducted an investigation of compliance with international standards for accreditation organisations with the National Accreditation Authority. Both investigations made comments on the regulation, which justify amendments to the legislation under this bill. However, the international recognition of the national accreditation system is indicated by the fact that, on the basis of the EA's decision, the National Accreditation Authority has already acquired EA MLA signatory status with effect from 6 October 2016 and is therefore entitled to issue internationally recognised accreditation certificates. The maintenance of a recognised status is subject to the implementation of legislative amendments. Dear Parliament, The European Commission has indicated that in the provisions of the National Accreditation Act, the legal institution of the appeal is excluded and that there is no legal remedy. In accordance with the Commission's request, the judicial review was named in the law, despite the fact that this right could otherwise be clearly derived from the Fundamental Law and the Administrative Procedure Act. The EA also requires a high level of professionalism in view of the specific nature of the area in relation to the accreditation procedure and its related remedies. With regard to remedies, this can be ensured by negotiating accreditation remedies with a court of national jurisdiction. Thus, the bill designates the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court with exclusive jurisdiction. In view of the small number of appeals, this does not constitute an additional burden for the court, but a judicial remedy can be more effective in ensuring professionalism in the specific area of law. Dear Parliament, As an objection to the regulation, the Committee stated that the provisions of the Act do not cover non-EEA Member States that are members of EA MLA or have concluded bilateral recognition agreements with regard to conformity assessment with the European Accreditation Cooperation, including Turkey and Switzerland. In accordance with the Commission's request, the regulation will be clarified in order to give automatic recognition to accredited members of these Member States from the Hungarian accreditation body. With this amendment, the accreditation procedure will be possible for applicants to plan precisely and the required surveillance tests can be completed during the five-year accreditation status.
u2016-11-11-70	Dear Parliament, Please allow me to report that, in addition to the acquisition of the new national accreditation system, EA MLA membership, in early October, it has achieved its objective to promote the competitiveness of domestic businesses, since procedural deadlines have been significantly shortened, procedural fees have decreased by 10-15 percent, and the accreditation procedure and the functioning of the Authority are much better served by businesses' interests in a fast, transparent and predictable process. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. Mr László Vécsey, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, is the first. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, CXXIV of 2015 on national accreditation. The Act was adopted by the National Assembly to ensure the functioning of the national accreditation system in accordance with European and international practice, the performance of accreditation as a public authority, the implementation of international agreements on conformity assessment, and the elimination of multiple conformity assessment of products and services in order to increase the competitiveness of the actors of the Hungarian national economy and to eliminate unjustified technical barriers to trade. [[12.30]] In order to achieve this first hearing, the Act adopted in 2015 also defined the tasks of the newly established accreditation body, including the obligation to conduct accreditation procedures and to recognise foreign accredited status, participation and representation in European and international accreditation organisations, the initiation and conclusion of bilateral and multilateral cooperation and mutual recognition agreements in the field of accreditation, and the involvement in national, European and international standardisation activities related to accreditation. The National Accreditation Authority, informed of its activities, has been clearly seeking to comply with its obligations and privileges from the date of its establishment, i.e. within a rather short period of time from 1 January 2016. On 6 November 2016, the Authority became a founding member of the International Halal Accreditation Forum, with which we took a huge step towards a multi-million-dollar Arab market. By being able to act as a full member of the IAF, the National Accreditation Board facilitates the access of Hungarian businesses to the market of Halal and makes it cheaper. This is just an example from the recent past, but it also shows how much accreditation procedures play a role. On 11 February 2016, the National Accreditation Authority launched a process that could ultimately serve the organisations concerned as a full member of the European Accreditation Community. This bill, presented by the Minister of National Economy, contains requirements for the legal environment so that the new accreditation institution of our country can participate in the European Accreditation Cooperation Mutual Recognition Agreement. By obtaining membership, the National Accreditation Authority is entitled to issue internationally recognised accreditation documents. The legislative amendments were drawn up on the basis of objections and conditions raised during the European Accreditation Cooperation Organisation and the European Commission's investigations. I will briefly summarise these amendments below. In the course of the examination of the accreditation procedure, the review system has been given particular attention and, given the nature of the procedures, the determining judge should have special expertise in order to be able to assess the decisions of the Accreditation Authority in substance and on a well-founded manner. The development of a single judicial case-law, which also meets international requirements, is justified by the fact that a court with national competence, with professional experience, decides on the decisions of the authority. Therefore, after the amendment, as opposed to the use of previous general rules of competence and competence, it will be specifically installed at the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court with national competence and exclusive competence. In view of the limited number of requests for judicial review concerning the accreditation procedure, it does not constitute a burden on the court to the extent that it is unable to provide. As a result of the amendment, a document detailing the accreditation decision as an annex shall be issued containing specifications appropriate to the nature of each accreditation area. The content of the document is governed by a government decree issued in 2015. The report of the European Accreditation Cooperation Organisation showed that there is no possibility to initiate an official review within the time period specified in the current legislation. It may therefore be necessary to draw up monitoring and re-evaluation plans that are better adapted to the specificities of each accredited organisation, so that the kogen date definitions contained in the existing legislation are further specified as the maximum legal maximum, i.e. it will provide for a review within a shorter period of time for both the authority and the applicant, but will no longer allow a longer period of time. By further amendment of the Act, we will automate the recognition of the accreditation of Member States outside the EEA that are members of European cooperation and have concluded bilateral recognition agreements with regard to conformity assessment. This rule has been clarified as requested by the Commission. In view of the fact that the Commission's investigation also covered the examination of pending cases, it has also made proposals for them, it is also appropriate to extend the scope of the amendment to pending cases. You will also find changes in the bill, my fellow Members, that are in line with the requirements in this regard. All in all, we can therefore say that the proposed legislation fully complies with the requirements of the international accreditation organisation, so that all obstacles are removed from the Authority's work based on European cooperation. Our aim is to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, to stimulate research and development, to ensure that domestic companies operate in foreign markets as effectively as possible, so that their services and products can gain the confidence of consumers in the right quality and with the necessary certificates. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-11-72	In view of all this, I would ask my honourable Members, this House, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-11-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Nándor Gúr, notary of the National Assembly, lead speaker of the MSZP is the next speaker. Here. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act The judicial review of the decisions of the National Accreditation Authority will fall exclusively within the competence of the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court, as you have mentioned. International requirements must also be met with regard to national accreditation procedures; otherwise, the Hungarian accreditation body must not be admitted to the international organisation, this European accreditation cooperation organisation. The requirements supported by the European Commission and the EA will be met, as I see it, by amending the 2015 National Accreditation Act, the National Accreditation Act. The Commission also requires these changes, as far as I know, to apply the requirements set by it, with regard to pending cases. For example, the national accreditation law has not or has not been part of it so far, nor has it provided any rules or references to judicial redress. As has been said in the expozee, this issue has been corrected in this sense, which is now replaced by this bill. The bill also changes with regard to recognition of foreign accreditation certificates, specifying the concept, concept and other conditions of significant change subject to notification.
u2016-11-11-74	As a very short observation, it must be said, on our part, that the justification for the amendment justifies the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Commission and the European Accreditation Cooperation Organisation. The purpose of the amendment is, in fact, to make the National Accreditation Authority a member of the EA and of the mutual recognition agreement for European accreditation cooperation, thereby becoming eligible for the issuance of an internationally recognised accreditation document. The previous system of national accreditation was practically submitted by Kristóf Szatmáry, Péter Cseresnyés and Imre Vas in 2015, I think, in summer, early summer, June, on the transformation of the national accreditation system, I believe, T/5142. It was crushed by bill number 1. The abolition of the National Accreditation Board was in such a hurry that it could be said that the adoption of this law took place within the framework of an extraordinary meeting. The National Accreditation Board ceased on 1 January 2016, if I remember correctly, and I think I remember it well; the task and the assets of the body were nationalised. Then Árpád Velez said a lot of questions, doubts, many other things in his speech, and I will not repeat them now, respecting my fellow opposition Members sitting in Parliament's walls, because I no longer see many Fidesz Members within the walls of Parliament. I could say we told you then, but I don't want to start these reruns now. I'm closing with one sentence. This is that we do not give our support or give our support to this nationalised accreditation process. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-11-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of Jobbik is our next speaker. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, I'd pick up somewhere where the solo before I left off. During the presentation, we have heard from the secretary of state and the pro-government lead speaker how important it is to adopt this legislation; how improving the government is at the moment leading the government to go through this amendment; how the government works for companies and organisations in Hungary who wish to have accreditation, and so that they can get accreditation at international level as soon as possible, so that they can enter the European market, the European Union, as easily as possible to import and transport foreign companies. This is all very nice and very good, what they have said, and everyone agrees, just see why this problem has arisen, whose fault the problem has arisen, whose fault this bill is today. Why do we need to correct a law with such a bill that we adopted in 2015 just over a year ago? It is very typical of Fidesz's legislation and its legislative programme that, on the one hand, on very important issues, individual drafts are submitted to individual representatives, primarily in order not to be presented to the relevant professional organisations for professional opinion, but to be able to come straight to Parliament and decide immediately, and, on the other hand, these legislative proposals come into plenary without any preparation, in order to achieve the aims of some people, usually in order to achieve individual economic goals. [[12.40]] How did this get here? My fellow Member, who spoke before me, has already mentioned that he had his general debate during an extraordinary meeting in the summer of 2015, there was a decision about it; he came here very quickly, and it was not really possible to know the real reason why he would be here now, why he should be voted on so suddenly. The opposition parties did not vote for this law, all opposed the bill at that time. Why they were against it, it's also very important. These parties opposed it because we did not want accredited organisations in Hungary suddenly to become accredited organisations in Hungary in the future, their accreditation in Hungary would be impossible, or they could only credit their own organisation abroad with significant extra time and a very significant cost. How does that work out? The then proposal, which was adopted with the support of pro-government representatives, ended the advice that existed in this area. In 1995 the National Accreditation Board, the NAT, was set up, which had all kinds of licenses to settle relations between the European Union and Hungary. So this National Accreditation Board had the right to issue this accreditation to the European Union, accredit the Hungarian organisations and have been accepted everywhere in the European Union. Well, that's almost without a reason, from one moment to the next. Moreover, the problem here is not that this has happened and nationalised the previous organisation, this accreditation body, which was a public body, it was nationalised on 1 January 2016; that was not the bigger problem, the bigger problem was whether it could be implemented. If this is the majority will, everyone in democracy must acknowledge the will of the majority. The Fidesz-KDNP apparently had the majority, and the government could do so to eliminate it. But how? It should not be unreasonable, not overnight, but properly prepared. Why wasn't it properly prepared? Because, as of January 1, 2016, there was no organisation in Hungary that could have done this accreditation in Hungary, and it is not until now. István Lepsényi, State Secretary, said that he is very pleased that we received this right from 6 October 2016. This is a partial right, indeed, for some of their areas the Authority, the National Accreditation Authority, has received this right. But it also shows that for ten months, no one had the authority to issue these permits. [[12.50]] What does that mean in numbers? There were 628 accredited organisations in 2015, when this bill was submitted to terminate the Accreditation Board. When this was submitted, there were 628 accredited organisations at the moment, of which 163 expired in 2016. So the rating of this has expired, almost a quarter of all organisations have expired, and this is what the majority on the government side, Fidesz and KDNP put at risk, so that these companies are unable to ship to the European Union or have a significant difficulty in obtaining the right rating, because this accreditation rating cannot be obtained in Hungary, so they had to go to Germany, Austria and other accreditation bodies in other EU countries, and could only be obtained from there. Therefore, these companies were put at risk when Minister of State said that 98 percent of Hungary's exports are related to these accredited organisations economically, and the economic viability of these organisations, which account for 98 percent of Hungarian exports, has been threatened by Fidesz-KDNP for ten months, and in part endangers even in the future with this super-fast but thoughtless, reckless, hemlock legislation that we have seen over the past six years. We are now in a situation where there is indeed a bill that the Jobbik faction will certainly press 'yes'; it will press it because accreditation is really necessary, it is indeed necessary that the new authority, if this decision is to work, can become a member of the European Union international organisation as soon as possible to recognise that right not only in certain areas, as it was done with effect from 6 October, but in full that these ratings, which this accreditation authority issues, should be recognised at European level, and that it should not be the case that Hungarian companies have to work in complete uncertainty, obviously represents a significant additional period of time until accreditation is obtained, since they will have to apply for it in Austria, Germany and will be examined from there, there will be much more costs, travel costs, time and others. Not to mention that these foreign accreditation organisations, whether the Austrian organisation or the German organisation, work for significantly higher amounts. This does not mean that 50 percent more should be invested as an accreditation fee in obtaining one of these ratings, but it costs much, much more money than six or eight times the money these companies have to pay, and this has been a very significant problem for all foreign companies producing foreign companies. If we go into the current bill, we can indeed see that the 2015 bill, which was adopted in the summer by the House - obviously with the exclusive support of the Fidesz-KDNP - does not contain a review option; as stated in section 3. § (2) of the law that there is no place for appeal against this decision. Mr. State Secretary said that this could be derived from the Hungarian Fundamental Law, that there is room for revision. Indeed, because the Fundamental Law states that there is always a possibility of redress. So it would be basically against the law if it were not, but it is obviously more fortunate that it is involved or could become controversial, if we do not interpret this law as having a place for review, then we could also say that this is the 2015 CXXIV. It is against the law if it does not have the possibility of judicial review. And it is quite clear and entirely justified, which is also stated in the statement of reasons of the law, that it is appropriate to grant a court of competence which is competent in this case. We have had many kinds of debates, even in the preparation of the Ministry for the establishment of administrative courts, and we have dealt with these issues, and I think that this accreditation process is indeed a process for which all district courts are not prepared, or an administrative and labour court is not prepared. We can say this, because it is very rarely there, it is a very special area, so in this case it is really necessary that, if we say that there is a place for judicial review, which is definitely the case, by virtue of the Fundamental Law, then we should appoint a court to which court to act in this case. Currently the Law 3. I believe that this is, in any case, part of a very good process, even if, I think, the adoption of the 2015 Act was a serious mistake that it was left out of it and that it must be supported. The other amendments, which are included in this law, should also be supported, because there is also a serious error there, because when the 2015 Act set deadlines for the procedure, when the review procedure, the control procedure could be carried out, because of the unfortunate wording of the law, the Authority did not have the power to carry out an interim procedure within the period of time when it might have been appropriate to revise it. Paragraph 1 of the Act provides that there is no appeal against this decision. Mr. State Secretary said that this could be derived from the Hungarian Fundamental Law, that there is room for revision. Indeed, because the Fundamental Law states that there is always a possibility of redress. So it would be basically against the law if it were not, but it is obviously more fortunate that it is involved or could become controversial, if we do not interpret this law as having a place for review, then we could also say that this is the 2015 CXXIV. It is against the law if it does not have the possibility of judicial review. And it is quite clear and entirely justified, which is also stated in the statement of reasons of the law, that it is appropriate to grant a court of competence which is competent in this case. We have had many kinds of debates, even in the preparation of the Ministry for the establishment of administrative courts, and we have dealt with these issues, and I think that this accreditation process is indeed a process for which all district courts are not prepared, or an administrative and labour court is not prepared. We can say this, because it is very rarely there, it is a very special area, so in this case it is really necessary that, if we say that there is a place for judicial review, which is definitely the case, by virtue of the Fundamental Law, then we should appoint a court to which court to act in this case. Currently the Law 3. I believe that this is, in any case, part of a very good process, even if, I think, the adoption of the 2015 Act was a serious mistake that it was left out of it and that it must be supported. The other amendments, which are included in this law, should also be supported, because there is also a serious error there, because when the 2015 Act set deadlines for the procedure, when the review procedure, the control procedure could be carried out, because of the unfortunate wording of the law, the Authority did not have the power to carry out an interim procedure within the period of time when it might have been appropriate to revise it. 12.50) This legislation eliminates this. I think that if the kind of swift, reckless legislation that has been observed in Parliament over the past six years, driven by various individual or economic interests, had not happened, there would not have been such mistakes, and Hungarian companies would not have been in a position to put their accreditation ratings at risk, or, where appropriate, to obtain them from abroad for six or eight times as much money because the honourable KDNP and Fidesz are submitting their bill in such a way that they are completely unthinkable, reckless, professional opinions are not obtained. Reading the press articles at that time, it was even clear that the then organization, the National Accreditation Council, did not even know that he was going to be terminated, they were informed when the bill was posted on the Parliament's website that they were planning such a change, which was obviously not submitted by the government, but was an individual motion. But they knew that once an individual representative submitted this, the government's intention was already behind it. Not to mention that the head of the European Union's international organisation in a separate letter drew Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's attention to the fact that if the old organisation was terminated by 31 December 2015, the right to issue an international accreditation certificate would be lost and that it would not automatically be inherited by the authority formed instead of the newly named public body, it would not automatically receive the certification right which the former public body had. This has been specifically pointed out, and the consequences of this, the disadvantages of Hungarian companies on the international market, the situation of European Union suppliers, the increased costs of turning to a foreign accreditation body. Thus, even the Prime Minister's attention was drawn to this, and this warning was made not on the part of the abolished public body, but on the part of the international EU authority or association, which was fundamentally well-intentioned. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-11-76	We do not question that the government or the majority of Parliament has no right to terminate a public body, to nationalise the public body's assets, to assign the tasks of the public body to public authority, because it is obviously entitled to do so by obtaining the appropriate parliamentary majority. We say that the mistake was that the preparation was inadequate, the timing was inadequate, the time was not sufficiently waited and the new organisation was prepared to enter the international accreditation process as a full member. For this reason, the fault of the national and the voters and the government led to a transitional period, which seriously endangered Hungarian economic interests, the exit of Hungarian businesses to the European market, the possibility and quantity of Hungarian exports. I am saying that this is the result of unthinkable legislation. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-11-77	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. We now have further contributions from representatives. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a statement. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have arrived at another glorious stage in the run of the Hungarian accreditation system, which has been taking place for a year and a half. It is worth recalling recent events that have led to the current amendment and to the present unblessed conditions. On 9 June 2015, Mr Kristóf Szatmáry Fideszes, Member, submitted a motion for independent representatives, which practically abolished the accreditation system at that time by abolishing the National Accreditation Board. The proposal contained neither substantive nor professional reasons. The then Managing Director of the National Accreditation Board simply stabbed the Fidesz decision-makers to the extent that they were willing to destroy the entire institutional system in order to remove the individual. And this senseless and opportunistic destruction was sanctioned by most of this House, the Fidesz MEPs, and brought to the legal level. At that time, all opposition parties, including Jobbik Hungary, raised their voice within these walls, and I personally also made a comment. Our professional arguments against the proposal have fallen to deaf ears, and the Fidesz MEPs have adopted the proposal as a voting machine. The second stop in this process was the presentation of the portfolio in October 2015, when it amended the legislation that had not yet entered into force. The amendment has led to significant changes and sought to address fundamental procedural issues, but unfortunately, the legislative intention was not guided by professional considerations, so the amended texts were not entirely complete. In contrast to the amendment at that time, all opposition parties, including myself, spoke personally about the dangers of reducing the possibility of redress, the functional and procedural anomalies of the designating authority, and all the undefined and pointless bureaucratic elements that hinder or even render the system impossible. Unfortunately, the Fidesz majority still refused to change the proposal. This is how we came to the presentation before us, which, not surprisingly, intends to amend the law at the points proposed by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and personally myself a year ago. The bill 3. § 2 of the Act settles the problems relating to redress. In the explanatory memorandum, the authors of the proposal refer to the fact that this is only a point of reference for the application of the law, but in fact it is only the improvement of the work of man called legislation a year ago, to which we had already drawn attention. Better late than never, says the proverb, so I can only welcome this amendment point, though with a slightly bitter taste in the mouth. The bill is 6. §2 of the Act complements the taxative list currently in force with a new point. The list to be amended shall contain the specific cases in which the accreditation body is required to suspend the accreditation of an accredited person or organisation as a result of a failure to notify a significant change. A detailed list of these significant changes is added to a point containing subjective wording. Literally, the following are in the text. Changes in compliance with the relevant requirements of legislation and professional rules which have a significant impact on its accredited status. The terms "satisfactory" and "satisfactory" are not sufficiently precise. For example, according to the current list, failure to notify a change in the address of an accredited natural person is a serious failure which now entails a complete or partial suspension of accreditation. [[13.00]] Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, with the new provision set out in the amending proposal, which is practically flexible for any life situation, the accreditation body may, at any time, suspend the accreditation of anyone, in fact, arbitraryly. If, in the course of the appeal, the body or person concerned proves his or her point of view and the suspension is subsequently withdrawn, it is not certain that the accredited organisation concerned is able to maintain its operation during the suspension period. If the appeal procedure lasts for months, the economic activity of the organisation deprived of its accreditation is impossible. When the law provides for a suspension obligation without weighing the authority, it is essential to ensure that the text of the law is clear. The subjective wording contained in the proposal is not suitable for triggering the desired legal effects or may in practice trigger further problems. The text is therefore not acceptable in this form. The amending proposal aims to give the accreditation body a tool that allows serious abuse and makes the functioning of accredited organisations or persons uncertain and unpredictable. Article 7 of the proposal is replaced by the following: The provision contained in Section 2 of this Article contains a change proposed by the European Commission in order to ensure that our accreditation system fits into the international system. At present, the National Accreditation Authority cannot issue an internationally recognised accreditation certificate, as opposed to the former body that was able to do so until the liquidation. The formalisation for the issue of internationally recognised accreditation documents is also a general objective of the submission, as can be read in the general statement of reasons. Well, I drew attention to the consequences of the disruption of the existing system early on, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary also drew attention. T/5142. I said the following in my comment on the legislative proposal No.3; I would like to quote my speech at the time: "The person of the NAT executive is such a violation of the interests of the governing parties that they are willing to destroy even the entire internationally recognised institution in order to remove this person. And the destruction is to be sanctioned by this House in such a way that the future of the provision of tasks is completely uncertain. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The destruction has happened, and a year after what happened, we are now fighting to somehow regain our international position lost because of the wrong decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I hope you feel the weight of your mistake a year ago. This legislative modification proposal is perhaps the best example of Fidesz arrogance and incompetence. In 2015, despite all reasonable considerations and considerations, an internationally recognised system has been destroyed for two decades, then all professional players and opposition political forces protested against the planned changes without success. Over the past year, it has been found that the new system, which has been put together in a hurry, does not work, either regulation, the new institutional framework or the participants are not fit to perform the function. Then the bill before us will be presented, which in many ways will go back to the state from which we started. Ladies and gentlemen, It's more than sad, it's disappointing. As a lesson, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable party of government to the basic wisdom that it takes time to do good work and twice to measure and cut once. I know that Viktor Orbán himself pointed out the terrible practice he considered to be in the Scandinavian countries, where they can argue over a decision for up to 7-8 months before making it. Well, according to Viktor Orbán, this practice is not possible in Hungary. You have been in government for nearly seven years, so you have all the resources you need to make good rules, after thorough preparation. Compared to this, they operate a law factory that produces scraps, consumes more energy to improve unrespectable, unknowable, messy rules than if the decision preparation had been normally done, even with months of work. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-11-11-78	Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of my speech, allow me to make a personal remark. Unfortunately, today it's 50 - but there's nothing you can do about it. Thank you so much for listening. [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. I'm gonna say no. [[For signal:]] The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said.
u2016-11-11-79	Looks like it, yeah. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, let's record the facts. The transformation of the national accreditation system, which, in addition to obtaining EA MLA signatory status and currently having 692 organisations accredited, has met the government's objective of fulfilling the requirements of a more efficient, shorter lead-through, business-friendly procedure, which is also typical of the government's work. If we look at the figures over the past period, formally, the accreditation procedure currently has 130 days available to the Authority, compared to the previous 170 days. On the other hand, the accreditation procedures launched in 16 showed that during a shorter period than the legislative framework, on average, the processes and tasks were completed in 119 days and there was no overdue. The former body was characterised by much slower work and much more deadlines. If you look at the supervisory procedure, of which there were not too many, the legal deadline is 80 days compared to the previous 90 days, and the supervisory procedures launched in 2016 have, on average, been completed in 75 days. So our objective is to speed up the process, so that the economies can get an opportunity in a shorter period of time, it has already been achieved. When we talk about costs and paid procedural fees, it can be concluded that before the change of legislation, the rates were about 18 percent higher, so the rate of payments decreased by 18 percent, to which it is added that the three mandatory procedures should now take place in five years instead of the previous four years, so this amount will be expressed over a longer period. It can be concluded that the costs of SMEs and companies in general in this area have sometimes decreased by 25 percent. In a tough competitive situation, such a noticeable cost reduction is very important. What can be said about the preparation and speed of the process, about the suggestion of Mr Gyure, following Parliament's decision to terminate the NAT, we started the preparatory work and already contacted the EA in August and discussed the various steps. They received the bill, the government decree, the ministerial decree, and the EA kept an eye on it. The EA was also a lesson, since it was not prepared to deal with such a change, so a flexible solution had to be found, which was in any case much more effective than the general one, since this revision of the EA usually takes more than two years. It took us ten months to get the right to sign. If we look at Mr Szilágyi's amendment, for example, he highlighted the problems with the norm text, the text thus formulated was specifically included in the proposal of the EA. The significant changes that have occurred with us must be notified to accredited organisations. Therefore, both ISO 17011 and the legislation provide a definition of this. The EA contested that the concept of significant change does not overlap with the concepts of ISO 17011 and initiated the amendment of the law. Given that the concept of the standard is so general that the author also considered that it did not meet the requirement of legal certainty in this form, we have clarified the concept in order to make it clear and not leave too wide a margin of discretion.
u2016-11-11-80	In addition, it provides additional security that the accredited organisation may have a natural remedy against the decision under the specified law. Thank you for your attention and for your support. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, To present the amendments, I will inform you that Thursday at 4 p.m.
u2016-11-11-81	We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain employment laws until closure. The government referral is T/12732. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[13.10]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you contains several amendments to the employment law. The amendments are minor, but they are very important in terms of their purpose and content. They will help to ensure that the law is applied, not in an abusive manner, but in accordance with their purpose. They also help to apply the law in practice. The government has done a great deal in recent years to increase employment levels and reduce unemployment. It was, and is still, the primary intention of improving employment primarily in the competitive sphere. Those unable to work in the open labour market have the opportunity to participate in temporary employment. One of the best tools for this is public employment and working in social cooperatives. In order to ensure that public employment is indeed temporary, the public worker must also do everything in his power to find work in the open labour market. At present, the public employee is only obliged to accept the right job. The bill further develops this rule and extends it. In the future, the public employee must accept and make use of the training opportunities offered by the public employment body. In this way, it can be suitable for employment in the open labour market. The proposal also amends the Public Employment Act, giving rise to the possibility of taking action against those who break the obligation. Further amendments to the Employment Act are specific, which are necessary partly for harmonisation reasons and partly for clear financial regulation. Dear Parliament, The government still considers it important to improve the OSH situation and to report work accidents in time. The provisions of the proposal amending the Labour Protection Act also ensure this, since the rules for reporting a work accident are strict. The injured worker still has an obligation to report the accident. The proposal is renewed by the fact that it has legal consequences for failure. If the worker fails to fulfil this obligation, he must prove that the accident occurred in connection with the work. The amendment also makes it possible to notify by electronic means, without prejudice to the rights of the worker, and still has the opportunity to appeal against the employer's measure. The proposal provides an opportunity for the optimal organisation and operation of OSH activities and OSH representation in relation to the Hungarian Defence Forces. This applies to the order of official activity and to the definition of level of reconciliation that is better suited to the Hungarian Defence Organisation. The proposal contains a provision for harmonisation. The reason for this is the presentation of EU legislation on PPE. The new EU legislation amends the names so far, and the proposal adapts the Hungarian rules to this. Based on practical experience, minor changes will be introduced by amending the Wage Guarantee Act. It becomes clear that, in the liquidation procedure, the use of wage guarantee support should not lead to a breach of the order of compliance under the bankruptcy law. The amendment ensures equal treatment between workers when applying for aid. This applies irrespective of whether the entity is wound up by forced cancellation or liquidation. The insolvency administrator often hires employees to a company that has no assets to perform the liquidation tasks. The aim is to ensure that wage guarantee support does not serve to pay wages and service charges in the new legal relationship resulting from the procedure. However, the amendment allows the decision-maker to consider the need for employment. In the light of foreign-based entities, the proposal amends the law's rules on jurisdiction. A foreign head office may be a problem, in particular, in the case of lenders. As a simplification, the regulation provides for the competence of the branch and its establishment. If there is no representation of the business organisation in Hungary, the law designates the Government Office of Budapest Capital as an auxiliary option. According to the current rules, the public employment body provides information on the Hungarian companies in liquidation to conduct the foreign wage guarantee procedure at the request of the foreign wage guarantee organisation. The amendment also obliges the public employment body to verify the existence of the conditions of the wage guarantee procedure in the case of a foreign entity. Dear Parliament, An important reason for amending the Labour Control Act is the functioning of social cooperatives. In practice, social cooperatives are not sufficiently protected against abuse. The amendment extends the scope of the Control Act to comply with the rules on the membership of the cooperative member. This is necessary in order to avoid abuse and to reduce undeclared work. The possibility of monitoring is expected to produce the desired result. The proposal amends the system of penalties relating to the non-compliance of the employer with the obligation to report information to foreigners or abroad. The provisions in force contain different penalties for the domestic employer who is in breach of his obligation and for the foreign employer. According to the amendment, in both cases a specific amount of administrative fines should be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, The practical experience gained in the operation of social cooperatives also requires the amendment of the cooperative law. As a form of organisation, the employment cooperative has not fulfilled its expectations; this form of organisation is often used to circumvent the requirements of other legislation; therefore, this form of organisation will cease with the entry into force of the amendment. It is not uncommon to have an audit experience that the social cooperative, contrary to its objective, carries out activities that can be seen in the context of a traditional employment relationship or possibly in the framework of a temporary agency. In these cases, it is clear that this form of employment is used only because of a more favourable legislative environment. Therefore, the proposal also limits the scope of the social cooperative's activities. In order to prevent abuse, it is stipulated that in the future the social cooperative should be a member of at least one local government or a public benefit organisation. In the future, the social cooperative can have a more stringent relationship with members. Only those who have been registered as job seekers by the public employment body for at least three months or who have been in a public employment relationship for at least three months may establish such a relationship. This amendment is expected to prevent successive arbitrary entry and exits from different legal relationships. It is also possible for the social cooperative to disguise the actual temporary agency as a task arrangement. In addition, he or she shall conclude a simplified employment contract with his or her member for his or her working days. In order to prevent such cases, the amendment prohibits a legal relationship in parallel with that of a member. The proposal complements the cooperative law with transitional provisions. These are necessary for the termination of the employment cooperative as a form of organisation and for the implementation of organisational changes. The law on simplified employment needs to be amended as a result of the termination of the form of an employment cooperative. Furthermore, it is necessary to clarify in the law the rule determining the income that can be taken into account for the personal income tax return.
u2016-11-11-82	Ladies and gentlemen, I trust you agree with the amendments contained in the bill. In this case, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the proposals in the vote and thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-11-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of Fidesz, takes the floor. Here you go. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted by the Ministry of National Economy includes amendments to several laws. Therefore, let me briefly and to the point present all the motions for amending numerically seven laws. Firstly, the proposal amends the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits. The current legislation requires the public to accept only the right job, not the adoption of the training option. However, in order to facilitate the return of the public worker to the open labour market, it is also necessary for the public worker to accept a training opportunity that enables him to find employment in the open labour market. Therefore, the draft law amends the Employment Act by making it compulsory for the public worker to accept the training option. The amendment also makes it clear which EU rules apply to certain employment promotion aids. The purpose of the amendment to the OSH Act is to ensure that workers take seriously the obligation to notify work accidents. To this end, the proposal strengthens the legal consequences of failure to report a work accident in order to prevent abuse of the notification. The regulation does not violate the employee's rights, as it will continue to have the opportunity to appeal against the employer's measure. [[13.20]] The amendment to the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund states that it regards wage debt as a wage debt as a liquidation cost. This will make it clear that, in the winding-up procedure, the use of wage guarantee support should not prejudice the order of discharge for the employees defined in the bankruptcy law. The proposal ensures equal treatment between workers when applying for wage guarantee support, whether the entity is terminated under forced cancellation or winding-up proceedings. The amendment to the Labour Control Act extends the scope of the law to comply with the rules on member work of a member of the social cooperative. The extension of the scope is necessary because the Law on Cooperatives is also amended and clarifies the system of penalties for non-compliance with reporting requirements for employed foreigners and abroad. The legislation in force provides for a different sanction between the non-reporting domestic employer and the non-resident foreign employer. On the basis of the revised rules, a specific administrative fine will be applied in both cases. The amendment of the law on cooperatives in the proposal was prepared to prevent abuse in the control of social cooperatives and to avoid the creation of a social cooperative only in order to obtain the various benefits. In the case of social cooperatives, it is not uncommon to have control experience that they are engaged in activities other than those set by law. Most of these can be expected through traditional employment and possibly temporary employment. It has also been the case that a member of the cooperative has worked with another employer in the framework of member work. It is clear that the use of the form of social cooperative employment in these cases is only due to the more favourable legal environment, as these cooperatives have a number of benefits. In particular, it is not obliged to pay a vocational training contribution; it is exempt from the payment of a social contribution tax to a member of the social cooperative; it is exempt from payment of a health service contribution in the first year following the establishment of a member's employment relationship; it is liable to pay 25 per cent in the second year, 50 per cent in the third year and 75 per cent in the fourth year. You may provide the member, free of tax, with a voucher for food or consumption, which may be used for the purchase of ready-to-eat meals as a consideration for the member's work, not exceeding the minimum wage per month. For the reasons set out above, the provisions of the cooperative law governing the scope of the activities of the social cooperative are amended. According to the amendment, a member of the member's employment relationship may not be lent under this legal relationship and may not work with another employer. In the future, the social cooperative cannot enter into a relationship with its member in parallel with the law on membership work. The rules of the cooperative law on employment cooperatives will be repealed. This eliminates this form of cooperative, given that the practical experience with the employment cooperative as a form of organisation is negative and does not meet the expectations of it. The rule that the social cooperative should be a member of at least one local government, including a municipal association, or an organisation with a public benefit status is also used to prevent abuse. In order to prevent successive arbitrary entry and exits from different legal relationships, the amendment requires that only those registered by the public employment body as a job seeker for at least three months or who have been in a public employment relationship for at least three months. Also in the light of the amendment of the simplified employment law contained in the proposal, in the light of the termination of the employment cooperative as a form of organisation, the proposal repeals the rule of the simplified employment law that this law should apply if the employment cooperative allocates its members for seasonal work. The proposal also clarifies the provision of the law which also determines the income that can be taken into account for the personal income tax return. Finally, given that the bill, by amending the Employment Act, required the public employee to accept the training opportunities offered by the public employment body as an obligation in addition to the right job, the proposal therefore provides for the possibility of sanctioning the breach of this obligation in the Public Employment Act. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-11-84	In the light of all these arguments, we recommend the bill to this House for adoption. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-11-85	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, is next, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go. [[13.30]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, if I count correctly, concerns seven other laws. First of all, the 1991 IV. a law, i.e. a draft law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment. This was the first law that practically contained the establishment of rules on the management of unemployment during that period. It also concerns the 1993 Labour Protection Act and the. 94 Wage Guarantee Fund. It also covers, in chronological order, the Law on Labour Inspection 1996 and then the Law on Cooperatives in 2006, and, as has just been said, it also concerns the Law on Simplified Employment, which was adopted in 2010. As a seventh, it also concerns the law relating to public employment and public employment, as well as the amendment of other laws, mentioned by the Secretary of State. It can be seen that the scope of this current bill is diverse in terms of the world of work. But before I speak of this, I would like to say a confirmation sentence, which was adapted to the thoughts of the Secretary of State. This is about the fact that if a government intends to increase employment levels and reduce unemployment, it is, in itself - we can even say - commendable, but not in words, Mr State Secretary, but in actions, and not through manipulation and in a well-founded form, but in a tangible way in the competitive sphere, and not only in a way that new jobs are created in the event of job losses, but also in the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs that produce tax forints through the economic sector. Fidesz election program: 1 million new jobs in ten years. So, that should do it, too. Mr. Secretary, you know we're a long way from this. Now I would like to ask you to answer as you go, so that we can discuss it, not as a summary view of your relationship with this. Now, I'm not gonna go deep into it, because I'm hoping that you can and dare to speak along the way, so that we can talk about it, because I don't want you to tell me what you think about it in the end, which, in my opinion, is very far from the truth. So, with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you to let me know as you go and tell me how you see all this factually. And now, in line with the draft law, this bill allows the public workers to make use of public transport means, obviously in justified cases, and to be reimbursed for local and local transport, obviously in terms of transport to the office and to the employer. This is, by the way, a correct, eligible, supportive effort. For example, how and how the financial conditions of the National Employment Fund can be used is a little more questionable and questionable, since we know what the National Employment Fund is really about, why it is called to life, who are the contributors, employers and employees, what is its purpose. It is essential that people, active employment grants, training grants, subsidies related to the payment of wages are excluded from the unemployment situation. It is not, as an example, expenditure related to the organisation of public employment exhibitions, related research developments or specialised publications, or IT developments, which should be put and enforced in the budget of the Ministry of Interior rather than financed by contributions from employees and employers. During the period of public employment, the public employee is obliged to accept, in addition to the appropriate job offered to him by the public employment body, because this has been the case so far, the offered training opportunity. Basically, I must say that personally I have no particular problem with this, but that if, for whatever reason, it is rejected, it is immediately out of gut and first passion that the exclusion from public employment programmes is conceived for three months. I would also like to say that, if and if, let us say, they could guarantee employment for these people after taking part in training, then I understand the possibility of exclusion. In the future, workers will have an obligation, as the Secretary of State has indicated, to report an accident at work. We should be careful about this issue because we know that in the world of work, it is the worker who is, in a sense, the more vulnerable. This type of claim from the employer should be evident. Of course, the employee may have an interest in doing so in order to create his own protection, but I think that the first step is that the employer must have an essential duty, and in all other cases, if he does not do so, it must have a sanctioning background. This draft law also covers the requirements for personal protective equipment and the harmonisation of legislation regarding the certificate of conformity of PPE. I think that this should be strengthened and supported, so the introduction and enforcement of this, if I remember correctly, will extend until 2023. I think that's okay, that's okay. Regarding the matter of the Wage Guarantee Fund: here the part of the Wage Guarantee Fund concerning the concept of wage debt is also clarified in relation to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. Here, any wage debt is considered to be liquidation costs. I think it's totally fine. The regulation makes it clear in practice that, in the liquidation process, the use of wage guarantee support should not prejudice the order of satisfaction for workers. I think that, most importantly, I will only highlight those items from here on out, there is much more to say, but I will now focus on what I think is most important. A new provision for the payment of fees for its members in respect of temporary agency workers and school cooperatives. The amendment extends the claim for wage guarantee aid for service charges due in one month prior to the opening of winding-up proceedings in respect of lenders and school cooperatives. In the future, wage guarantee support should not be granted for lending or service activities that arose after the winding-up procedure began. I think that we need to clarify the concept of service charges, what can be included in this. If it's wages, we're fine. If the employer's benefits and returns are the same, it must be asked whether this is okay. The proposal also amends the Labour Control Act. The controls will cover compliance with the rules on membership work of members of social cooperatives, the reduction of undeclared work, but they will also address national protection as a possible target area. I think that this has been necessary for a very long time, and life has shown us in previous years what maladministration has been. As far as social cooperatives are concerned, I must say that the logic which, in addition to bearing their names, must be accompanied by an indication of activity, should be part of a local government or a nationality government, i.e. a social cooperative. In fact, what we have learned in the past period, in the period behind us, is that internal control platforms for social cooperatives need to be strengthened. We know that members of the social cooperative cannot work with other employers in the framework of member work. A member's employment relationship and the establishment of a member who has been registered by the public and employment body for at least three months or who has been in a public employment relationship for at least three months may be maintained. [[13.40]] If we look at these, we will see that, in the future, the social cooperative will not be able to enter into any further employment relationship with its members who have a legal relationship with them. I'm not going to the bottom of the story, I just want to make it clear that we should look at it, that we should look at the events of the last few years carefully, where things have turned out in this respect. I'm going to make some comments here at the end. It's a salad law, I can tell you, a Janus-face salad law, at least two-faced. There are good elements in it, I said examples of it, there are good elements in it, which are eligible. Nevertheless, there are absolutely unacceptable things that cannot be agreed with. Look, Secretary of State, if we are talking about social cooperatives, then in the framework of this draft law, there has been nothing more than a sort of nutmeg bath. This was what the government was forced to do, and I understand that because of the fraud attempts or frauds or frauds, there was no other way than to choose to produce such a bill. It is now clear and clear to everyone - even the government - what is behind us, you know, in terms of HUF 1.6 billion in support of the Roma Municipality, the Voldemort case and many others. If you look at the HUF 1.6 billion of EU money entrusted to the President of the National Roma Municipality, which should have been combined with the implementation of the programme "The Bridge to the World of Work" within the framework of the employment cooperatives, if I remember correctly, how this ended, I understand that such a bill is in front of us. I understand, because it was not the help of disadvantaged, gypsy and non-Gypsy people to work that was in mind, and it was not the story of that, but of various car rentals, various Roma executive positions, fees, commission fees, purchase of buildings and much more. In this respect, the Prime Minister's Office - 2016. CHAPTER VII The 5th of the month - according to his statements in the interview, these resources could also be recovered from the National Roma Municipality. But you know that this method was designed so that it would not be possible to do so, since, for the first 11 months of repayment, the three percent will be repaid, and then the rest of the money should be repaid in the last month.
u2016-11-11-86	The last thought, Mr President, is that it will not be possible to repay it, as the Roma Municipality handed over the property purchased in the programme to the employment cooperative it set up at one of the mid-summer general assemblies. This will make it almost impossible to recover debts. You can go deeper in this story, but...
u2016-11-11-87	But not anymore...
u2016-11-11-88	...I don't wish...
u2016-11-11-89	That's right.
u2016-11-11-90	...I just want to say that in itself, what's behind us is absolutely wrong. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-11-91	Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain employment laws intends to change some seven previous laws to a lesser or greater extent. Chapter IV of 1991 on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed A new paragraph is added to the Act on the basis of which the public service worker must be reimbursed if he is offered work by the public employment body, including from his place of residence to the public employment body or to the employer. By the way, we can fully agree with this, because if there is a party here in the Hungarian Parliament that does not view Hungarian society from an ivory tower, we are not giving out our advice and comments from under a glass dome, it is Jobbik. Indeed, we are not the ones who can afford helicopter trips, and if that is what we are thinking, it must be mentioned that there are many tens of thousands of people in this country who also have a small edition that seems ridiculous to others. We can therefore support this kind of mitigation, this type of social benefit, if the point is to find a way to bring these people back to the world of work, to the primary labour market. Another new element is that the scope of the Employment Fund's budget will be extended and expenditure related to the organisation of public employment exhibitions will be eligible, as well as the cost of public employment research. This is a somewhat vague part of the bill, as we have seen it well, for example, in the context of Roma integration, the Danube could be blocked by the studies on which huge money has otherwise been thrown out, and no progress has been made. It would be very good if, by means of checks and strict checks, it could be achieved that, if such research were to be carried out here in connection with public employment, these would not be considered as wasted money, but should actually be used, and should be a real job. A further change is that from now on, the public worker must not only accept the work offered, but also the training opportunity that enables him to find a job. This may seem to be a strict requirement, but if we look at long-term interests, both in the interests of Hungarian society and in individual interests, then we must somehow push these people to choose a more perspective solution and accept the training opportunities offered to them. However, it should be added here that these training opportunities should not be false training; these training opportunities should not mean training under all very beautiful names, but should indeed provide these unfortunate people with new skills and expertise that will enable them to move forward. It is also a relief here in the bill that it has not yet been considered a career beginner, but since then such a parent can be one. We can fully agree with this if this parent sees the future of a responsible child in both work and learning. In this way, if you are able to get into such programmes, a parent who can benefit from such state benefits will also be an incentive for a growing child. Point 2 of the proposal before us is the 1993 XCIII on OSH. Details of the amendment to the Act. After acceptance, if the injured person fails to comply with his reporting obligation for reasons attributable to him, the injured person shall be responsible for proving that the accident occurred during or in connection with the work of the employer. My fellow Member has just made a point here that, in this relationship, when an employee is in fact against the employer, who has more emphasis on the position of the employer, so that the other pan of the balance sheet should also be very, very careful and the OSH checks should be taken more seriously in Hungary. By the way, there are reports that next year they will pay much more attention to this. We can fully support it, because we have often stressed it, I have said it myself: the Hungarian worker is not a labour animal, the Hungarian worker is the only real capital on which we can rely on to boost this country, so they should be valued and protected. Moreover, the purpose of the explanatory statement is to take the notification obligation more seriously, and the proposal therefore strengthens the legal consequences of the failure to notify accidents at work. In order to prevent abuse of the notification, if the injured worker fails to report a work accident, he will have to prove that the accident occurred in connection with the work. However, this amendment is an acceptable, acceptable idea, because sometimes it happens that the employee is already in a labour suit - typically because he has lost his employment relationship - with such needs, and at times, let us say, if this procedure is not good for anyone else, but it is certainly good for us to waste time. Or it could also be that such demands are presented out of vengeance, which will then be an unnecessary burden for OSH authorities. So, in addition to making the notification obligation more serious, which is undoubtedly important, the later unfounded, sometimes extortion-like workers' needs can perhaps be eliminated. But, once again, this is just one of the pans of the scale. [[13.50]] In the other pan, it is there that if we look at the statistics, we can now talk about a trend in Hungary on the basis of a four-year period, and if we compare the 2012 issue with the 2012 issue. I. mid-term results in relation to accidents at work and their numbers, as set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. With the results of the first semester, we must see that there is a terrible trend here, since 2012. In the first half of the year, there were 7500 accidents at work, but in the first half of the year, we have already crossed the number of 10,000, so here we can talk about an increase of more than 33 percent. Otherwise, we have to ask what the reason for this is. Obviously, a huge labour burden on the one hand, they are forced to work too hard because of shamefully low wages, and on the other hand, because of the lack of labour, employers are pushing them to do extra work, and this will legally increase the number of accidents at work. But if we look at what the government is trying to attract Hungary, let us say multinational companies, then we are experiencing two things: cheapness and, on the other hand, by cutting wood on the back of the Hungarian worker, and if the Hungarian worker is sold to the rest of the world, then there is no reason to wonder if the employers treat them this way - by the way, not only foreigners, but, obviously, unfortunately, in a shameful way, I would add, the domestic employers too - they consider Hungarian workers to be cheap, disposable wage slaves. This should definitely be prevented. And how big is the vision here, by the way? In a country in this state of health, such as Hungary, workers are missing on average five days per person per year. Then if you go to work - and you go to work, the numbers show - then you also have to accept that there are a lot of accidents at work that happen because you are in uncertainty, because you are in fear, because you are threatened that if you announce, say, this minor accident at work that can still be covered up, then you can easily kick him out of work and thus put his family's livelihood at risk, then we need to understand how much visibility is here, why there are so many accidents at work in the country that will not even be reported, and this number of ten thousand can only mean the tip of the iceberg for a semester. We have all encountered cases, such horrific cases, where workers can perform this, and they can tell us what kind of depression they are subjected to in this regard. In addition, just to support this, even a terrible figure - if a significant percentage of young children and young children under the age of seven, about 7 percent of them are left at home alone without parental supervision when they get sick, then this only supports the fact that in relation to such minor accidents at work, the Hungarian worker prefers to keep his mouth shut, swallow a huge one, and tolerate the loss of his rights. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to pay much more attention to such abuses in the future. Point 3 of the bill amends the Law of 1994 on the Wage Guarantee Fund. The main element of this is that it broadens the scope of wage debt in accordance with the bankruptcy and winding-up law. In the context of a summary of this proposal, we can say that we actually find it good, because its aim is to reduce abuses. I have to bring up the Palócker's case here, just to show you how alive this problem is in Hungary, how real it is. As the largest employer in the county of Nógrád, Palócker has given work to 1300 people in some 80 shops, and we can see precisely here in the context of liquidation, when this company went bankrupt, what procedures the workers, the workers there, are exposed to, what a terrible situation they are exposed to. So from the 1300 employees, there was a case where 900 employees were paid two months' wages, so that these workers were otherwise low-paying people, who were able to pay their payments and pay their rent monthly, and when they received only the ounces of their salary, it is perfectly understandable how unacceptable it is when they were poke their eyes out with 15-22 thousand forints, they wanted to keep their mouths shut. In addition, civil and criminal law regulations in Hungary are too acceptable in this area. Jobbik is of the opinion that in order to protect Hungarian people, Hungarian workers, this should be tightened up so that they do not obtain the rightful wage that they otherwise deserve. This is often the case, they can wait months for it, hundreds of people can, in any case, cross other non-wage payments that could otherwise be seriously quantified. It has a monetary value, but it also has to be given up in such winding-up processes, which, by the way, we can see much more in Hungary than, say, Western Europe. So it's not just that the employer stops operating, it's that he's insolvent and that he's in bankruptcy. Point 4 of the proposal amends the Labour Control Act, adding a new paragraph whereby labour control also covers social cooperatives in the case of members of the social cooperative. However, I would like to say in a low voice that, in the proposal that you have put before us, Paragraph 36 of this bill. I, Minister of State, did not make the submission, but paragraph 4 does not appear in it, even though it was named here. But that was just a parentheses note. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-11-11-92	I'd like to jump, because I'd like to go to point 5 in more detail. So now I say that we agree with points 6 and 7 of the bill before us. In addition, a minor amendment to the 2010 simplified employment law and the amendment of the 2011 law relating to public employment and amending other laws.
u2016-11-11-93	Point 5 of the proposal deals with the amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives and cooperatives and social cooperatives, and if my fellow Members are still patient, I will come back to that in a later speech. I can see Mr. President's oblivious expression. I'll be waiting for your attention later. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Congressman; for what you said and for watching my face - it was expressive and conscious. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We are discussing a very important bill, again, unfortunately, a salad law, which in itself is a failure of Fidesz, that we are constantly receiving such laws, in which they make proposals and submit them to Parliament, which have a very serious impact on the lives of many people. However, I think that it would not be the way to discuss these proposals, that everything should be thrown into a large salad law, but that everything should be handled in its own right and way, and that some of the issues that arise here should be dealt with in detail. I'm gonna try this one. I'll start here with the first point, which is very important to us. It is also because the LMP has previously submitted a separate bill in order to abolish children's community service, i.e. taking 16-year-old children to community service in this country. Research has revealed that this is an existing phenomenon, spreading phenomenon and problematic phenomenon. This proposal to tie the starting date of community service to the age of 18 has been voted down by you. Fidesz-KDNP voted against our previous bill. In comparison, I was pleased to see in the social consultation version that the age limit for public work was set at the age of 18. In comparison, Mr Secretary of State, this paragraph has disappeared from the material put before us. In Hungarian, someone in Fidesz-KDNP was reasonable, and he noticed that the children's community work was problematic, although they did not give the opposition the opportunity to accept a bill, no problem, the matter was, they noticed it, they brought it in for social consultation, and then for some reason they pulled it out of there. So I can also say that this proposal, which we are discussing here, almost includes the abolition of child labour, but this has not succeeded. Now, here's a reason. You wrote in the version for social consultation, and I quote the government: "The reason for the amendment is that the legislation in force encourages the young person to stop his studies and work in public employment. Given that the primary aim is to make young people fit for employment in the open labour market, says Fidesz, which is provided by training, it is appropriate to increase the minimum age applied by law. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, the fact that this has not been tabled does this mean that you do not think that the young person should be kept in education and that he should not be taken to community service? What happened here in Fidesz? And this is no longer the first, but the second bill that I see this week, we have a rather intense week to get the version that we can still find, which is so to speak, positive, and then, under the influence of some lobbyist interest, it disappears from there. I'd like a detailed explanation from Fidesz about what happened here. Nonsense that the XXI. Children's community work in Hungary in the century. This is not acceptable, Mr. Secretary of State. We have tabled your previous words in amendment, in fact, I would like to see them in the final bill. [[14.00]] Let's keep going, though I thought it was very important to start with, because when it comes to children, we always have to talk about it in the first place. But let's see what else is in this bill. The version that came before us, I can tell you that it's actually a good example of dilettante government. In fact, you have put everything together because you are trying to correct your own problems with governance. But it's like Fidesz all the time that I see them doing things that aren't the right thing to do, but they're doing things so unevenly from the opposition side. Thus, for example, the change in public work, the obligation to make training compulsory, the need to accept it, and the reimbursement of travel costs. The LMP has been talking about a community service trap in this country for years, and I'd really like you to see it now. We suggested travel expenses, we suggested that training should always be given priority over public work, and you voted against them for years. Now it seems to have been enlightened, but better late than never, they say, but let me think that this is quite late, after putting a lot of people in a very tough position with regard to public work. And then, if you are already looking at the proposals on the opposition side, there are a few other LMP proposals that I would like you to look at. For example, what would make available to job seekers the various subsidies, expansion grants and wage subsidies to support employment. A lot of public workers have come forward that they need support to help them become entrepreneurs, they can't have it as public workers; we want them to have it. But there's support for self-employment. These should all be made available to public workers, because it is important to see that public work is not like a job in the labour market; these people need help to reach an open labour market. Give them all these, help the public workers. Let me give you another tip: here's the job security action plan. Technically, you still do not allow the public worker to interrupt community service and to apply for or apply for a contribution allowance on the competitive market, to be more appropriate. It's still a matter of waiting for the end of community service, and then taking into account community service at the time of the job search. It'd be nice to settle this, too. What I find particularly wrong, however, is the sanction, the three-month exclusion. It doesn't make any sense, it's harmful, I don't think it's a good solution. Salad law, so we're gonna jump point by point because the government isn't giving us a coherent legal text. Let's also talk about employment cooperatives. A few years ago - look up the minutes of the Parliament meeting - we said, so when you came up with this and created it, we said that it was actually meant to drain EU money, that the employment of the Roma would not be helped and that it was done. We told you! I specifically remember the debate in Parliament when we convinced you that this was an impossible construction. So there's no such thing as a co-operative of 500 people, setting up a top-run cooperative. The imposition of the national government as a mandatory member... - we also said that it would lead to the segregation of Roma employment. This is what happened, and here my fellow Member Gúr correctly quoted the fact that the Farkas Florians had completed the employment cooperative in the world of work, and without helping a single unemployed Roma person to get a job, they practically stole a lot of money. So I'm glad you noticed what we said years ago that we shouldn't do that. However, there is a problem here, which is an amendment to the regulation of social cooperatives. This has gone so wrong, which you have written in this bill, that even your former Member of Parliament, Vilmos Patay, has severely criticised this text - he is leading the National Cooperative Council. Given that you were ashamed to turn to the stakeholders, the Hungarian government refused to negotiate with professional organisations, I have now brought them in here to meet them at least now. The opinion of the National Cooperative Council on the mandatory requirement for the membership of local authorities and of charitable organisations, I quote:. As President of the National Cooperative Council, I cannot support the amendment, as it seriously violates the internationally accepted principles of cooperatives and the right to establish a business right, if, apart from a specific circumstance, the members of cooperatives are restricted in the establishment of a membership relationship, when establishing their own cooperative enterprises, regarding the independent decision of the membership composition. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that there should be a place for a debate in Parliament about what stakeholders think about their own situation and what they are experiencing about our different writings. This is the opinion of the head of one of the relevant professional organisations. So if you think that I want to fight politics with you now, and I just want to do ferocious politics because I'm in opposition and you're in government, I can tell you that I'm not. The person who is the best at this and who is in the field, and who deals with it on a daily basis, this is his opinion of what you put on the table here wrapped in salad. But let's keep going, because there's still an opinion. The fact is that the National Association of Social Cooperatives is also critical of this proposal. What is basically happening here is that you are trying to centralise on the grounds of abuse, and what is happening now is that you want to influence social cooperatives politically through the municipalities. Yes, there are abuses, we know that our fellow Member Voldemort - I'm talking about Roland Mengyi - has failed in his dealings. But just because there are corrupt people, don't throw the baby out with the bath water. So there are well-functioning social cooperatives. You can't make them impossible because there are corrupt people, like the congressman in your ranks. You can't do that. How do you think because there's corruption, they're gonna take it all out the way it is? ! This is unacceptable! I would like to make it clear that what you have placed on the table - and I warn you once again - will not reach the goal you have set, but will cause a great deal of damage. [[14.10]]
u2016-11-11-94	Let us go further here on how the National Association of Social Cooperatives thinks about this issue. Once again, I am doing this because the government has failed to meet with professional organisations properly. I think that if someone is steering, then give the people involved the dignity to talk to them before they take out their organizations. So what you guys did was amazing. Let us begin by saying that the National Association of Social Cooperatives considers the legislation of compulsory municipal/charityal organizational membership in social cooperatives to be unacceptable, harmful and contradictory to all good governance and the name of the main activity. That is, therefore, a brief and concise position. It is not an opposition political attack, it is an honest professional opinion.
u2016-11-11-95	I would like to justify it, as you can see here in the resolution. So the fact that you want to bring the municipality into social cooperatives as a mandatory member will break the balance of basic democratic operation. I think that you do not know international practice with regard to cooperatives, and that is why you try such solutions. Logic is crystal clear: the municipality is thus able to exert a decisive influence on the functioning of a cooperative of private individuals in need, while having one vote, like all other members. In the long term, changing interest-based local political and power pressure will make it impossible for members to improve their lives primarily by promoting their own economy by local means. There are some freaky things here: there is no legal definition of the charitable organization, so there will be virtually legal uncertainty about the identification and involvement of such an organization. It was the Ministry of the Interior who put this concept into the cooperative law, and they mean the members of the Charity Council by a charity organization. Do you imagine that 2600 social cooperatives will join these eight organisations if not the municipality? Or what's going on? This has been codified. So it would be nice to clarify that. Once again, if you had consulted the competent professional organisation, you wouldn't have received these questions from an opposition representative, but I must, because you won't talk to us, just because you have to, I know it. The social cooperatives, which the Ministry of Interior has generated for the benefit of public employment, want to make all 2600 social cooperatives a tool for public employment. So this is also seen in the resolution of the social cooperatives. Yes, and they say, as I think, that the legislator clearly does not have international knowledge of how the social economy works in Europe and in the world in general, and of the legal conditions under which social changes and social cooperatives operate. It is also stated that the State will establish discriminatory rules when, unlike civil society organisations or economic organisations in the civil code, it requires social cooperatives to bear on their behalf a flag indicating their principal activity. And then I would like to mark two more things here, which, on the other hand, will put a completely unnecessary extra burden on social cooperatives. In connection with member work, the statutes of social cooperatives had to be amended once already, unnecessarily, because otherwise it would have been enough to oblige them to do so where there is membership work, but no, you have done so for everyone. Now, once again, all social cooperatives should amend their statutes and make absolutely no sense. The biggest problem with this is that the statutes can be modified and submitted to the Court of Justice by a lawyer's countersignation. This means that about HUF 30,000 per cooperative has to be paid completely unnecessarily. This represents a total expenditure of HUF 80 million or revenue for the state in the case of social cooperatives, and I do not think that social cooperatives should be sacrificed unnecessarily. Be kind and notice you're asking for something for nothing again. Every other day, one of your ministers talks about cutting red tape, making them feel like they're in the same government and trying to save money for these people. One word, as a hundred, honourable State Secretary, honourable Members, I am very dissatisfied with the way you have struck social cooperatives. I want you to pull up the handbrake and come back a little bit, two steps back, and talk to these people before they turn their lives upside down. Please, not from here, from the ivory tower, try to figure out what's going on in the field. I think you have all the tools, wallets, money, steeds, weapons, everything to create a normal regulation. I understand your purpose, but this is not good, which is now being decoded. We have tabled the amendments, and we would also like corruption to be reduced in Hungary, and we, unlike you, are doing so, but the point is to be kind, to look at our amendments, and now beyond the fact that you are not willing to take anything into account on the opposition-government front line, but to accept ours. I would like to say, on the last word, that I strongly protest against child labour, and we will launch a very serious attack on the government if it does not turn back from this path and leave the children in childhood, in education, but let them be taken to community service. Thank you very much, and I also thank you for finishing your thoughts so accurately at exactly 15 minutes. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. As a representative asking for a normal word, as you have already indicated, Congressman Ander, next is Jobbik's representative. Here you go. Thank you for your word and patience, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In terms of social cooperatives and employment cooperatives, however, we need to take a look back here. When the amendment of the 2006 cooperative law was discussed by this House in 2012 and 2013, Jobbik did so in advance, and we made a lot of critical comments that the government simply refused to take into account. Usual power arrogance has wiped out these comments, the law factory has started, and they have made a law that has been clearly proven - and not by us, but by you - that it is not good. What are we talking about here? It is stated in the general statement in black and white that the employment cooperative, for example, did not fulfil its expectations. We warned you. Why didn't you listen? And then the big question is, if there were such an experiment that cost the country billions of dollars, EU or domestic budget forints, then it is because of squandering them or stealing them, beyond the few cases that have now been rolled here, which the general public could hear; I am thinking here of the story of Lord Voldemort and his entire band in Azkaban or the far-smelling cases of Flórian Farkas. Has political accountability taken place? Or is it to be expected that there will be political accountability in this matter, in addition to the fact that we hope that the investigating authorities will do their job here, and that sooner or later the person who has something to hide, has something to hide in these very, very pig and outrageous cases will have to deal with. In addition to the fact that these billions have been abducted or stolen, here is another question: they wasted a lot of years and wasted certain beliefs. The issue of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence should be taken out here in relation to social cooperatives and employment cooperatives, and I would very much like it not to be the answer that Jobbik was so much a gypsy on this item of the agenda. I don't think so. However, if we look at the minutes of the previous parliamentary sittings, we can clearly see how much hope the Prime Minister has presented them here, say Flórian Farkas; the Flórian Farkas, whose Prime Minister still refuses to let go, is pretending that we are saying to let go of Flórian Farkas, who has been hung from the Margaret Bridge. That's not what I'm talking about. On the other hand, it should be pointed out in political terms that so far and no longer, because the Roma integration policy that took place in Hungary after the change of regime will lead Hungary to the dead end, not only to the dead end, but also to the ravine. And if you refuse to let go of these sticky hands - by the way, those are the sticky hands of national Roma local government leaders or the glued hands of your own faction - then there will be a great deal of trouble. Time is running out. Indeed, the social classes that these problems are particularly relevant to remedy the problems of which these social cooperatives or employment cooperatives have been removed are explosive, let's say, through population growth. They recreate poverty in a cumulative way, and there is no perspective in front of young people born in these communities that could facilitate Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence and Hungary's long-term prosperity. [[14.20]] That is why I say that this is not just about money, but about eroding certain beliefs, wasting them, about saying that their Roma integration policy has failed you, too. The figures that contain the latest research results have just been released, and we can clearly see from them how horrific and terrible there is a problem with the educational or labour situation of the Roma community here in Hungary. And since we are living in a common country, this obviously affects the whole thing, and you are simply not willing to see it, you are going on the path that, say, the Socialist government has claimed to own as a result of the Colom Parish policy, and they have not done anything either. Kolompár Orbán stood up in a T-shirt, saying that I was a Roma, not a criminal, and then, waiting for him, he was taken away, and received a year 10 months in prison. The same is still going on, but it is only with the same stubborn determination that you insist on your little political family, because it must be said that behind the whole matter, I know it will be serious, but there will be mean political machinations. What am I talking about? About the need to secure cheap Roma Voks here every four or five years. That's what I'm talking about, not anything else. He has the right man to deliver it, or he promises to be able to deliver it, and then he can run wild, and neither the Prime Minister nor anyone will stop him from doing so. It is considered a strategic partner, even if the police and the NAV stand a little differently, according to János Lázár. So this is what Roma integration was all about: stealing, corruption, mugs, transferring money into the pockets of friends, making the National Roma Municipality a low-cost local government with this policy. The Bridge, which is supervised by Flórian Farkas, also needs to be said about the employment cooperative in the world of work. In addition to Lord Voldemort's filthiness or planned filth, this was a precedent in this whole story, which clearly showed that the complaints, the excuses, the legitimate criticisms with which my fellow Members, Tamás Sneider, Sebestyén Vágó, Szilvia Bertha - back in the previous cycle - were here, indeed, justified. They told me that you were sitting on the other side of the horse, building a baseless sand castle with this system, which will legally collapse, and, as we can see, in certain parts of it you have already acknowledged that it has collapsed, since it has to be driven out of the system, saying that it has not fulfilled its expectations. The only thing is that Hungary's clock is ticking, and we are rushing to the social integration and disintegration gap, which will cause huge problems here in the coming decades in Hungary. Their main purpose here was to try to raise the countryside, disadvantaged regions and disadvantaged social groups, and, as I said, to see what golden words he spoke about this whole project, say, three or four years ago, on Flória Farkas, and what it all turned out to be. He should also be confronted at government or government level that the 1.6 billion forints that were abducted, stolen, indeed much more than that: the trampling of a promise, the setting up of an integration perspective, and even though it is strange that, let's say, a Member of Parliament from Jobbik's benches says this. But I would add, Mr Secretary of State, that there is no normal person in Hungary who is obviously against integration; we also say that, yes, integration is very important, so the most important issue of the coming decades will be the issue of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence in this country, even in Central and Eastern Europe or even in the Balkan region. Therefore, these resources and these promises, these opportunities should not be destroyed in such a way. When we said that you were sitting on the other side of the horse, we meant that if you really wanted to create a functioning social cooperative system in Hungary, you would have to set up a state-cooperative system, which would then join as a sub-scheme. Indeed, the idea of setting up and operating social cooperatives is not from the devil. They can serve a very noble purpose, if any, but the proper background must still be there. For example, under the right background, we meant professionals who, both with social worker competences and agricultural competences, can really help these projects, and it will not only be about the fact that project management fattens the potroha - I'm sorry - and everything is papered, and on paper everything is fine, in many cases apart from such Voldemort cases - so on paper everything is fine, everything is very nice, everything is very good, as is usually the case with government representatives, but then in reality it doesn't work. And when we run out of integration money, when we run out of European Union money, when we run out of such resources, which, where appropriate, are transferred from domestic budget money, it is clear that these social cooperatives, which have been promised and outlined as a kind of solution for us, are not working. Respect for the exception, of course, respect for the exceptions where they honor their work and really work for noble purposes. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-11-96	But we also need to see it, and it would be very good if Mr Secretary of State could provide us with concrete figures on how a summary register has been drawn up on how we are doing in this area. How much money has been poured into these cooperatives in total, what is the concrete result? There were different numbers. Of the more than 2,000 social cooperatives, how much do you consider to be viable and, where appropriate, will you stand on your own feet under market conditions? It would be very nice to hear about such specific numbers here, because I think that somewhere in the system's alpha and omega would be that. When we said that other additional funds were needed for this, we meant that order must be made in the countryside, because it is not possible that there are also zones available for classification of a hostile tribal area in Hungary, where it is legal that these social cooperatives do not work, because everything is stolen. Not only is the crop stolen, Mr. Secretary, but there are villages in Hungary where complete street lines are stolen. And even though I bring the photos here, even though I bring a petition here from the outraged and law-abiding or even from the settled gypsy population, the state power is pushing it away from you, because it is obviously an uncomfortable moment, which shows that everything is not right in rural Hungary, in rural Hungary, where, if you look at small settlements, more than half of the municipalities belong. It is true that Lajos Kósa once told me as a novum that I know how many people live in small settlements with the most difficult fate. Yes, I know you didn't say anything new to me. About 7.5 percent of society lives in small settlements under a thousand, precisely in those places that you targeted primarily with these social cooperatives. But in order for this to work, and to be able to change these principles into small amounts in practice, it would have been necessary, in such a way, to tidy up or tidy up, and also to have a state coordinating body. The LMP representative may be shocked at this now, but we said years ago that the state would have a huge role to play in bringing social cooperatives together and coordinating their operations, once they have been established, and not working on an art pour l, art basis, reliving resources as a kind of cricket organization. Then we also said that more attention should be paid to avoiding the emergence or emergence of a new slave market by not thinking enough about the regulators that so many have spoken about before me. Well, you guys were blowing all that stuff off, and, well, now it turns out that there was a basis for what we were talking about here. [[There's no candidate.]] My last suggestion - I may still have a few seconds - is the aid principle that we have never been able to agree with. So that these investments, these projects, strengthen a kind of aid status or mentality in the people they have invented, because they can never be traced back to the primary labour market. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak? [[On the signal of István Lepsényi:]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed.
u2016-11-11-97	Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[14.30]] There you go. You have the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for your comments, and thank you for those that confirm that our thoughts are moving in the right direction, and we also thank you for your critical comments, because it is worth analyzing and considering all thoughts. The present proposal is not a comprehensive proposal on labour market and related issues, but we have been monitoring trends, the results of labour inspections and studies over the past period, and on this basis we have made certain, although extremely important, corrections in the various laws. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bányai for strengthening the experience of presenting these amendments to the Parliament. In the case of Mr Nándor Gúr, and to some extent as a general introduction, I would like to say that it is relatively easy to raise papers and to say things in words, but it is relatively difficult to act, especially with the results of the action. If you look at the figures: in 2002, unemployment was 5.8 percent, it was the first Fidesz government's closing year, in 2010 unemployment was 11.6 percent, which caused a very significant problem in all aspects of the country, and at the moment, unemployment is 4.9 percent. So we are faced with very different kinds of problems than we have faced in recent years. We also have to look at the fact that during this time we have given 680 thousand people jobs, and 450-460 thousand out of the 680,000 have gone to the competition sector, where there are real challenges. So these people are getting better in life and have a higher income, and the proportion of those who went into community service is relatively small. At the same time, we need to see that in a four-point-tenth-percent unemployment, the tasks are different because the various international trends and statistics that have been cited in general, which show that in general 3.5 percent of society is not very suitable for work for different reasons, so we are concerned that job creation and job creation are of similar importance at the moment. It is quite clear that Hungary has already reached a paradigm shift, according to which Hungary is not the cheap and large labour market, but rather the foreign capital, domestic capital, should be directed towards a more qualified and relatively limited workforce, so labour market steps are very important in this direction. In labour market steps, how to use public work and move people from public work to life, into the competitive sphere is extremely important. Here we have heard various problems in the speeches by the Members and ladies. But you can clearly see that someone who hasn't worked in his life and goes into community service is a significant step for him. After all, the fact that you have to start working is sometimes a very big challenge. After that, the move to get out of the trenches and out of the open sky to a company means psychological shock. You can't imagine that by simply changing the terms overnight and telling him that you worked here today, then you'll be working differently from tomorrow. This is a continuous, coordinated, multi-step strategic work on which the government has a vision and systematically implements it. With regard to labour protection, I think it is very important to analyse what is behind the numbers and to do everything in our power to make things better. That is why we have proposed tightening up OSH inspections and tightening up legislation in this regard. At the same time, we must also say that, unfortunately, a significant proportion of accidents occur because of workers. So there must also be training, conscious transformation, that disciplined work is the only way to significantly reduce accidents. I think this is also a joint task. There have been a lot of concerns about social cooperatives. Firstly, we stress that social cooperatives promote the employment of disadvantaged people. There is very positive experience, but what we can see is that in the case of employment cooperatives, in particular as a result of the negative experience of labour inspections, we are proposing that this form should be removed. It is clear that the government is watching how society changes, what positive and negative trends there are, which is why it makes its proposals for a direction that solves the problem. Involvement of local authorities in social cooperatives, we believe, to a significant extent, to solve certain problems. We accept that in the codification of the cooperative law there has been a failure. Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for bringing this to our attention, and we will correct this.
u2016-11-11-98	Public employment, as I mentioned at the beginning, is a general and complex problem. In general, the minimum age for public employment should be adjusted to the minimum age for employment. This is an issue that requires a more thorough reflection and study. We will also look at this question and we will come back to it. What I think is very important is that there have been several discussions between social and professional organisations here. Personally, I sit down about a quarter with the Business Development Council, which includes 16 professional and social organisations, and also Mr Cseresnyés State Secretary; we listen to their views, we tell them what plans and suggestions we have, and we welcome the appearance of representatives of social and professional organisations, prepared and expressing their views. I think this kind of exchange of views and cooperation will help us to make the best rules in life. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Meeting ended at 2:35 p.m.]]
