u2016-04-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up to greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] : Honourable Parliament! The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We begin our work with speeches before the agenda on the day. Then, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place, and then we will complete the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Enough of the bullshit, the lying, the Fidesz return the 100 percent salary to the workers on Sunday! It's an address. You have the floor within a five-minute time frame, honourable Member.
u2016-04-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are past that Sunday when, for the first time in a long time, traders could decide whether to open their shops and whether to visit a store, a store or not. I'm telling you, a lot of people have decided to visit. However, the fact is that there is still much to be done in this case, because when this law was repealed, when it was abolished, we have already said it in the debate, and now we have to remind everyone that they have made a wrong decision, which has resulted in the 100 per cent wage cut to 50 per cent. They shouldn't have done this because we told them then, and this is the case now that the 2014 CII. Law on the closure of the store provided for and Article XVII of the 2015 Act. There was a law in the matter of surrogates. So, if you had repealed the Shop Locker Act, it would not have resulted in a 50 percent reduction in the wage supplement on Sunday, yet Fidesz-KDNP did so, obviously with the intention of taking some kind of bad revenge on people who think differently than they do. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted a comprehensive bill to the House today, which settles the case of workers, is in the protection of workers, and it is about the people who do work in such a way that they also have to work on their weekends and Sundays. I am telling you this because anyone who reads the bill will see that we are not talking at all about retail workers; we are talking about everyone who does work on Sundays, serves and cannot be with their family. We believe that they should be helped not only in terms of wages but also in other matters. Our proposal states that daily working hours can be 8 hours or 40 hours per week, and can only be different for very serious reasons, it is only possible to work 12 hours a day or 60 hours a week. We could also change or change the case of the working time frame in this law. In the case of workers working or working on working time, we would change the law so that it would not be possible to set a working time limit for a year in advance, but could be set in advance for a maximum of six months. It is also included in our proposal that workers in whatever field they are working in, could only be expected to work on two Sundays, and if they or employers want more, this should be recorded in writing and can only work more than two Sundays by written agreement. Here is the 100 percent wage supplement that we would expand everywhere, not just to the retail trade, but to every worker who works on Sunday, and we would do so by paying a contribution up to 50 per cent so far, and by not paying a contribution or a solidarity tax for the 50 per cent part. This would, of course, make it easier for employers and would be much easier to pay these people and, of course, would not have the adverse consequences that would be negative for workers. We also consider it very important that we have tabled the law by giving everyone two months of preparation before it enters into force. This is also different from the procedure we saw here at the end, since both employers and workers were unprepared for the abolition of the law, and this is not good either. We consider it very important to give Fidesz-KDNP an opportunity here. There is a possibility that, instead of pointing out clichés or cynical things, it is possible that if they really want to represent the interests of workers, then there is this bill, it can be voted. In this bill, it is possible for workers to make positive decisions both on working time and on working hours and on wage replacements, not just for workers working in retail, but for workers working anywhere on Sundays. I think that this debate can be concluded. Pointing each other can be closed. If they have already made the mistake of voting or repealing the law of adding the bonus and taking it away from people, then there is now an opportunity to give it back to them in a comprehensive and professional way, and then they can really stand by the workers. That's what we're giving you. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I've tried to understand, but I think I understand why this outrage or this haste on your part and the pointing to something else on your part: because they've ruined something, and now we have to find the wrong one or try to find the wrong one. Not only should we say this here, but we should tell you how many families have been put in a difficult position with this, how many women in families and mothers will be forced to work on Sundays for opening shops [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Who submitted it?]] how many families can't go on a safe trip because you demanded it [[Zoltán Lukács: Men work too! Dr. László Varga: Doctor!]] The situation has evolved according to your intentions, and, of course, it is not just family mothers, but also men who will be working in retail. But to be factual: in parallel with the restoration of the possibility of working in the retail sector on a Sunday within the previous framework, the original status of the Sunday bonus came back as you wanted it to be. [[Anita Heringes and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene several times.]] Therefore, the situation of 14 March 2015. That's when you wanted this. That's what happened. Because the special situation has ceased... - hear me out, fellow Members, to learn from it [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And don't slip when they speak up. [[Zoltán Lukács: Don't lie! Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Objective lies, Mr. Secretary of State. Dr. László Varga: Shame on you all!]] The special situation has ceased to exist that the shops concerned must be closed on Sunday and could only be opened exceptionally, on a maximum of five Sundays a year. At the same time, the duality that lasted for a year was eliminated, namely that where we limited the opening hours, there was 100 percent, while where Sunday opening hours were not restricted, there was 50 percent on Sunday, as in your day. And if they wanted to stand up so warily for Sunday's extras, why didn't they do it by 2010? This was the case until 2010. Now it's easier to yell at people and mislead them, talk about it with your side. [[Zoltán Lukács and Anita Heringes intervene.]] [[11.10]] It must not be forgotten. [[Zoltán Lukács: People used to eat mammoths!]] The fact that the sellers of shops in gas stations, markets, waiting rooms or, for example, those working in florists have received 50 per cent over the past year, so not 100 per cent of their wages. We need to see that government ideas on the economic side of limiting work on Sunday have been achieved, and that is what we need to talk about. According to KSH data, while the number of people employed in trade increased in 2015, the number of people working regularly on Sunday decreased, thank God. This means that their number has decreased from 38 percent to 20 percent, adding that, in addition to the fact that the retail units were not open on Sunday, even trade traffic has increased, so nothing has been achieved from what you have said again with the intention of leading people astray. [[Zoltán Lukács: Then why did you vote for him?]] The reopening of shops will give us the opportunity to consider the amount of the Sunday bonus. As we have made clear a number of times in recent days, the government is open to discussion, not with you, but with those who represent trade workers as an advocacy organisation, and after consulting these representative bodies, other steps can be discussed. This dialogue will probably start this week, as the monitoring committee of the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government will be convened, where this is likely to be a topic, not to mention that at the end of April, at the beginning of May, the VFK itself, i.e. the permanent consultative body of employees, employers' side and government side, is likely to meet, and the meeting date is being agreed. [[Zoltán Lukács: We are sitting on needles!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, notary, from the LMP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:.A new victim of Hungarian health. You have the floor, notary, in five minutes.
u2016-04-18-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Likely few were aware of last week's news that the real causes of the tragedy in the psychiatric department of St. Imre Hospital in Budapest were finally revealed. Turns out the baby who died wasn't born dead, but was killed by hospital conditions. This is already shocking in itself, and another harsh proof of the state of health in Hungary outside the government's success communication, because one would rightly expect that a newborn is the most secure in the hospital, but unfortunately, the facts have shown something else. As a result of the investigation, a series of shortcomings have been identified, some of which, in the absence of time, would be highlighted here. The investigation states that the psychiatric department hires patients because other departments cannot or do not wish to do so. On the tragic day, there was also a patient who was placed in the hallway, but unfortunately, it is increasingly common to see patients tied to beds in the halls of psychiatric departments. The classes are so crowded, they often don't even have room for a nightstand, so they can't even store their personal belongings. In many places, they try to cure the narrowness of space by turning the dining room into a sickroom. Getting to know the circumstances of the event was significantly difficult because confused, conflicting documents were released from the care. On this basis, it was not clear how the patient got into the class, nor is it possible to follow exactly what medications, when and how they were given, or sometimes even to be told what medications they were given. It is no exaggeration to say that patients today are virtually unable to enforce their rights. The patient's representative has also been informed of this case only from the press, because it is common today that patients cannot contact their patient's representative or receive notification from their legal representative. However, it is worth looking at the consequences after the reasons. The hospital's chief doctor was eventually suspended, but that's pretty much what happened. The department has not been redesigned, the psychiatric practice will not be reviewed, there is no step towards strengthening the possibility of enforcing patients' rights. In essence, nothing happens, even when the results of an investigation say that current conditions are costing people lives. This can happen because today there is no strong representation of patients' rights, no quality assurance, so people can easily become victims when they are most vulnerable because of their illness. Unfortunately, the incident I've told you is far from the only distress signal. These signals can now be seen or experienced by almost everyone, except the Prime Minister and the members of the government. Sitting in modern stadiums, you may feel that the country has evolved, but in reality in hospitals there is no money for rubber gloves, no disinfectant, no need to wipe your hands, no air conditioning, so the incubator of newborns is heated to an unbearable temperature. It is also a problem that today every document that gives a mirror to health conditions must be sued. Such a document was the last document the country could learn thanks to the work of the press. Sadly, this is what is needed even when nine newborns die from a hospital epidemic. Such a document would also be the national database of hospital infections, which is not allowed to be published; perhaps because it would be unmistakable evidence of the serious problems in the domestic care system. We believe that there would be money in Hungary for health care, but that billions should not be spent on empty stadiums and Olympic campaigns. It would be enough to take real steps to shut down offshore money taps, and there would already be enough resources. [[István Szilárd Németh: Hipp-hop!]] Even in the current state of the country, this could afford a much better quality healthcare system, only the money needed to do so will be scattered and stolen. In any case, I do not want us to leave without saying a word in such cases; we must not allow there to be one more, and then more and more Merényi, from which news of tragedies regularly comes. We expect the government to stop trying to lie about the health crisis, but to face it, as long as it doesn't happen, they can't change that. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-18-6	Thank you, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government. You have the floor.
u2016-04-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I go into the specific case, honourable Member, in this House too, we have talked many times about the need for improvement in health care; development both in terms of the facilities of hospitals, the equipment for basic care, and in terms of the wages of doctors and nurses. We have also talked many times about the fact that over the last five years there has been an overall HUF 500 billion improvement in hospitals, precisely to prevent such and similar cases; precisely so that no disease of any kind is more serious or that we can avoid the death of as many people as possible. [[11.20]] We spent 500 billion forints from domestic and EU sources to create such improvements within the healthcare sector. It was a government decision to devote very serious hundreds of billions to this. But neither you, honourable Member, nor anyone else could provide an example of the scale of hospital development, basic care development, overall health infrastructure development in Hungary over the last 25 years. Have there been five years since the change of regime when so many hospitals were renewed when they were able to replace so much equipment? I myself have been in several of these institutions, and you could have been in them, too, Member, there were institutions where 40-year-old equipment was replaced now, in 2015 and 2014, which were there for 40 years, could have been replaced for 25-30 years, but it was still until 2015 or 2014. A person who deals with health issues deep down may face problems that occurred not a year ago, five years ago, ten years ago, but 20-30 years ago. But they have not met in the last 30 years a period of development such as the last five years, when the rural hospitals each received a grant of 15-20 billion each from institutions of 3 billion, 5 billion or more, from which they were able to renew both the interior, exterior and instrumental material of the hospital. Hospitals received more than 300 billion, and they were able to spend more than 100 billion on buying various instruments, precisely so that the quality of patient care was important, and precisely because the government decided to spend the largest amount on improving health care. As regards the specific case that you mentioned: the patient was placed in the psychiatric ward because of his own and public health, precisely that crisis observation department, because the protection of the mother's life was a priority in this supply situation, and they acted in accordance with the rules in force in relation to the patient's restriction measure. At the same time, the investigation that you referred to was launched, and you said that there were no consequences, beyond the fact that the chief of the hospital was suspended, not by the way, but the head of the department, for the duration of the investigation. Yes, there are many consequences, honourable Member, because precisely in order to prevent similar cases, a hospital action plan has been drawn up, which is being implemented, and there will be upgrading work in the hospital's building B, where the psychiatric department will also be rebuilt, precisely to make it even more clear how these patients should be treated, and how the otherwise high-quality St. Imre Hospital can also ensure patient care. We hope that this will benefit all patients later. By the way, if you turn around or other representatives of the LMP come to St. Imre's Hospital, you can see that doctors and nurses can heal under good conditions. Like I said, one of the parts that could always be in the front of the government is the development, the infrastructure improvement of hospitals. Obviously, the government has taken important action over the past year in the 60 billion-dollar hospital consolidation that has managed to reduce the debt of hospitals at that time to a low level. This, too, has obviously freed hospitals in terms of farming, that it is precisely the problems that you have identified and that many have been classified many times over the last 30 years - or perhaps 40 years - by preventing the state from paying these debts instead of hospitals. And that's when the waiting list reduction program was launched, which most recently shortened the waiting list by more than 10 thousand of the extra sources last year, with more than 5 billion forints from special sources, so that the patient can do surgery, cataract surgery, hip surgery or something faster, and the most frequently used surgeries, thus reducing the number of waiting on the waiting list from 77 thousand to 34 thousand, i.e. reducing the length of waiting lists by half. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, from Jobbik's group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why has the accountability been halted? Is there any intention at all to find out who is responsible for the Quaestor case and the offshore scandals? It's an address. You'll have the floor in five minutes, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Last year, a major coalition broker scandal broke out, causing hundreds of billions of HUF damage to Hungarians, and it also turned out that this major coalition scandal is a broker scandal in which Fidesz and MSZP are all involved. Csaba Tarsoly, the leading businessman of Quaestor, was not only seen several times with the leaders of Fidesz, including Viktor Orbán, in a circle of friends, but, earlier, in the period of socialist governments, he received credit from a state-owned bank within the framework of an uncovered state guarantee of nearly HUF 17 billion. The criminal proceedings in this context have been brought to an end in the Fidesz government cycle, namely that they have not. At that time, it was clear that the Quaestor case would hardly have any meaningful accountability. At the time when we presented the proposals for prevention, which could have prevented this brokerage scandal, Fidesz and MSZP representatives from taking this proposal down in a large coalition here in Parliament. Now we've come to the point where the D.A.'s office and the court are pointing at each other, and we're stuck prosecuting the Quaestor case because the prosecution and the court are pushing each other's responsibilities. However, I would like to shed some light here: Fidesz has neither reason nor right to take this responsibility off of you. At the head of the National Court Office is the wife of Tünde Hando, a fidesz MEP. Fidesz put it where it is, he runs the National Court Office. The Chief Prosecutor's Office is headed by Péter Polt, who has also been known to have a strong attachment to Fidesz since the beginning and to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally. We also know that there's a lot of people at the head of the police who Fidesz has appointed, who have been put there by Fidesz trust. The Criminal Code was created by Fidesz in the previous parliamentary term. Therefore, there is no reason and no right for Fidesz to point the blame to anyone else because of the obstruction of accountability. We are still waiting for Fidesz MEPs, like the representatives of Jobbik and other opposition parties, to make a signed declaration on their criminal liability that no money was saved from Quaestor at the last moments. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Do not keep these data hidden behind bank secrets because it is known that during this period before [[Lajos Korózs: One billion dollars! The Wall Street wolf did eight years for that!]] The company would have fallen, Viktor Orbán and the government already knew that Quaestor would fall for it. We would like to see clearly in this case, who are the Fidesz politicians and other politicians involved in this matter. It is also interesting to see that, although Viktor Orbán declared a fight against the offshore, in fact Viktor Orbán's army is made up of all kinds of offshore knights. We have long known that Andy Vajna, a direct confidant of Viktor Orbán, has acquired more involvement in offshore companies. It has also recently been discovered that offshore companies, which make 100 billion HUF of settlement bonds, have a very good, confidential relationship with Antal Rogán and several members of the government, Árpád Habony, on community image-sharing portals, have shared photos of family members; interestingly, in this case, Fidesz did not mind giving offshore companies a 100 billion HUF profit. Ladies and gentlemen. It's not small change. Zsolt Horváth, who was a Member of the Parliament of Fidesz for 16 years, also found that he had offshore affairs, acquired ownership in offshore companies; first he denied it, and then, in view of the facts, he was forced to acknowledge it. János Kerényi, who is the regional director of Fidesz in Central Hungary, his parliamentary representative and Viktor Orbán's confidential colleague, recently found out that several of his family members have acquired a stake in offshore companies and are in contact with them. The question is, what kind of money has been invested in these companies, and why Fidesz still does not state, following Jobbik's example, whether an offshore company is included in the family's wealth declaration, why they do not make the family family's wealth declaration public, like Jobbik's representatives. What are you hiding, gentlemen? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.30]]
u2016-04-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond.
u2016-04-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, you have been involved in an ongoing criminal proceedings in the Quaestor case, but we all know you know very well, Mr President, that neither the government nor the Ministry of Justice has the power, nor does Parliament have, to take a stand or make any decision in an ongoing dispute between the court and the prosecution. So if you want to be informed about these matters, you have the same authority as the government, so you can give your opinion and ask for information. In view of the separation of powers, and since it is an ongoing matter, the government has no influence on this. If you want the government to be responsible in such cases, you propose that the prosecution, as in other states, be controlled by the government. Then, of course, we will be able to speak responsibly on these issues. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to Article 7 of the Fundamental Law, you can now address a question to the Attorney General in any matter of your duties, and he may be able to provide you with more detailed information. It is well known that in the Quaestor case, the liquidation, the investigating authorities, the prosecutor's office and the court will do everything in their power to find out the truth and what legal penalties can be applied. But the point of the specifically raised debate on the interpretation of the law is that, from the more than a thousand pages of the prosecution's indictment, the court lacks certain lists, which the prosecutor's interpretation of the law does not require to include. But in this case, as I mentioned, we do not wish to give an opinion. There are over 6 million data, which, according to the D.A.'s office, would be hampered by efficient and rapid administration. At the same time, it can be expected that the extent of the damage alone justifies the imposition of appropriate penalties, since this investigation is about embezzlement, fraud and other crimes in criminal organisations. According to the prosecution's interpretation, the court did not drop the indictment, but returned it to fill in the gaps, asking for certain additions, which the D.A. will hopefully be able to comply with when justified, and within the framework of the indictment. We're talking about 132,000 pages of investigative documents, of which 1,500 pages were included in the indictment. Let us not forget that we were talking about a form of piloting, where returns were paid on a fictitious basis. If we're talking about missing amounts, I'm sure they'll have to be taken into account. I have already talked about judicial independence and the separation of the prosecutor's office, so here in relation to appointments, Parliament has always appointed the leaders of these organisations. So I reject the references to influence on any party basis that Mr President has made. The offshore companies were also mentioned, and how the parties relate to the activities of their members in business and other areas. I would like to ask you whether Béla Kovács is still a member of Jobbik, who we know is a Member of the European Parliament, and has not yet clarified the issue in which you stand and are still protected. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] For offshore companies, the fact that Article 38 of the Fundamental Law provides that the transfer or exploitation of national assets can only be concluded by organisations whose ownership structure is transparent. The same is stated in the National Property Act, the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act. I would also like to mention that all these changes were introduced after 2010, so the age of former offshore knights, when, we know, from András Simor through László Boldvai, the left has exercised this genre strongly, thus being severely restricted, and today the state is only contracted with a company where we know who owns it. It is not possible to ban offshore on its own, but there is indeed an increased expectation that individuals exercising public authority can exercise restraint in this area. I heard the name of an ex-fidesz congressman. I would stress here that he was a former Member; the other Member you mentioned, as you can see, was concerned with family members. He said that this was public data, and he will continue to do so in the future. [[Dóra Dúró: Is it okay to offshore?]] Obviously, there will still be different polarities on this case. All in all, I would therefore like to stress that the increased expectations must be met by everyone, so in the case of Béla Kovács, you must also meet them. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Minister of State also applied for a speech before the agenda. In a five-minute time frame, Mr Secretary of State has the floor.
u2016-04-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think we have a number of reasons for talking about European identity here in Parliament. There is an introspective reason, an introspective vector and an outward reason, an outward vector. Obviously, the outwards are the cause of modern-day population migration, and the introspective is that many people still like to mock Christianity, which is the basis of European identity, and try to stir up some kind of media microstorm by trying to degrade, mock or mock religious symbols. This has not happened differently in the past week, we have seen a performance that is considered a religious abuse, so we can say, as an action was carried out using church symbols, dressed in a bishop's dress, using ecclesiastical terms. I think that within Europe we should be proud of Christendom, our Christian roots, Christian culture, Christian morale, which has defined and defined Europe. Either we strengthen them, or Europe as such will disappear in its identity, because no continent can choose identity as its identity. There has never been a group, whether a nation or a larger community, an identity of a continent, to deny its identity. After that, it was definitely the decline of that culture. I therefore believe that Christianity is more respectful of everyone, even if its position is contrary to the Church's position where appropriate. The violation of religious freedom is also a violation of democracy. For many people, religious symbols are sacred things, honorable things. This must be respected by others, especially when they present themselves to the champions of tolerance and speak precisely of respect and rule of law. Religious freedom was one of the first fundamental rights that appeared among the freedoms of the rule of law. Therefore, respect for present or majority religion is equally important. Of course, in such cases, so - called defenders do not move, but leave them free if they do not confirm that others are making fun of Christians and try to gain a dubious reputation and a dubious reputation. Moreover, this action was clearly committed with premeditated intent, and it was an open religious abuse by some provocators. We hope that the section of the Fundamental Law that protects the dignity of communities and is one of the most modern European fundamental laws in this regard, is a XXI. 100th-century innovation in the Hungarian Fundamental Law compared to other constitutions in Europe, well, we trust that it will protect religious Christian communities here as well. Let me also talk about the outward vector of European identity, as many of us see that Brussels is not trusted, whether it is Christian-based or, we can say, in a common Europe, in the future of a common Europe. They believe that the performance of European people is insufficient to base Europe's future solely on that. We believe that Hungary should trust the Hungarian people, and that this is how we plan the country's future, and that Europe must plan for the people of Europe. Some politicians in Brussels do not trust that demographic problems can be solved from internal resources or that labour problems can be solved from internal resources. They therefore believe that they can solve problems within the EU by calling on other people, calling on other young people and other workers. We believe that issues and problems within the EU need to be dealt with locally with within the EU and with people outside the EU. There's no way to mix these two. And to do so, the first part obviously means protecting borders, because if Europe does not defend its borders, then in the coming months, in the coming years, more and more people are going to start moving towards Europe, trying to start a new life here in Europe, thereby fully changing Europe's identity, Europe's culture, Europe's security situation, and clearly also the threat of terrorism. [[11.40]] They are trying to change all these values, they are trying to change all the lifestyles that make us feel at home here in Europe. That is why it is important to ask people directly in a democratic state, whether in the form of signatures or referendums. But it is also important that the instruments are in place and that the negotiations in Brussels that Hungary is conducting are also important, as they seem to be pushing these events forward in Brussels. Let us trust and support the Hungarian Government in proposing good instruments to the Union in Brussels. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2016-04-18-15	Honourable Congressman, As far as the issue of immigration is concerned, it is indeed an issue that fundamentally defines European identity, so let me say this first of all. Indeed, several leaders of the European Union share the idea that unlimited immigration is an opportunity for Europe to solve its indisputable economic and demographic problems. We are debating this idea, this attitude, because we think that unlimited immigration is a phenomenon that is dangerous, above all because it has unpredictable effects on our culture, our economy and our daily security. The government believes that the decisions on immigration should remain national. The Member States have the right to decide who they want to live with. In this spirit, the Hungarian Prime Minister presented his ten-point proposal to address the migration crisis last week. This is practically a response to the European Union's failed proposal. In the view of the government, the solution to the immigration crisis requires, above all, the strengthening of borders, which is why the Hungarian Government proposes to strengthen the Schengen system. The ten points include identification procedures, a list of safe countries or an agreement with transit countries, but the ten points include the fact that no mandatory and automatic procedures can be introduced for the distribution of immigrants. So we reject forced resettlement, compulsory resettlement quotas. Since the issue of forced introductions is being put on the agenda again and again in the midst of a lot of bullshit, we believe it is important that the Hungarians say no to this unreasonable proposal. Honourable Congressman, The proposal on forced resettlement can be annulled by a successful referendum, Brussels must be stopped on this issue. If we do not stop it by a referendum, they will make decisions above our heads on a matter that can determine the fate of Europe and European identity for decades. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Németh Szilárd, from the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You'll have the floor in five minutes, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Time Newspaper recently reported that the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments between 2006 and 2010 17 billion forints were spent on communication advice, various studies, and these orders landed in this huge amount at home companies, including Tarki, Medián, Szonda Ipsos, and the Economic Research Centre of András Vértes, and László Lengyel Financial Research Ltd. So these greasy orders found the farmers, they made something, and then they handed it over to the government. However, there is a very interesting thread to the case, Political Capital has also received this order file, which is an honor. We know very well that they are linked to Zoltán Somogyi and Krisztián Szabados, who were huddled around the House of SZDSZ, MSZP and MDF during the elections and tried to bring them to power even in 2010. I'm guessing it's not a coincidence. They received a half-billion HUF order from the government, including 190 million forints for the National Security Office, commissioned by the National Security Agency, and these studies were also encrypted. You can, I would like to emphasise once again that documents, studies, which are classified as state secrets and are of particular importance, are classified as state secrets, that, by the way, Political Capital, as a company and none of its employees, did not undergo the national security screening at that time, and that, moreover, the mandatory element in the contracts that should support the competence of experts was not included. And all of a sudden, out of the blue, the National Security Committee got to know it, they set up a committee of inquiry, they made an exploratory material, and practically nothing happened after that. So everything remained the same, and recently, a few weeks ago, I suggested at the National Security Committee's meeting that we not stop here; I think that the topics on which the treaties were concluded are not at all national security issues, and generally have political identities - I mentioned the political relationship before - so practically they do not contain classified data, we do not risk national security of our country if we make this public. He was examined by the Constitutional Protection Office, and a few days ago, on the website of the Constitutional Protection Office, these documents, contracts, certificates of performance, supporting documents for payments and studies are also available. And whoever's going through this is going through it, and they're asking themselves why they needed these studies. What was the need? Why did the head of the National Security Office pay 190 million for these studies? Then, when we look at the documents in more detail, we find a document linking them to the Foundation for Together, and, moreover, from a point of view that technically, it wasn't Political Capital that was in the management of the National Security Office at that time, but with the Egyetem, whose leader, remember, was sentenced to six years, and was released from prison last year with some kind of discount. He himself was in contact with serious criminal circles, and through him, as an intermediary, he was paid to Political Capital. Here is a receipt for almost HUF 25 million. [[He's showing it to me.]] Well, everyone would take money like that. Today I took over 23 million 544 thousand forints from the representative of the NSA. The amount shall be used in accordance with the terms of the agreement. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm But there's no way to know who signed it, because there's not even a name. Well, Mr Secretary of State, I am asking whether the government will open further investigations and I am interested in whether these documents, which may still be available, will be made public. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2016-04-18-19	Honourable Congressman, One of the important points of debate in Hungarian public life in recent years was the need to publish the advisory studies ordered by governments. Although there are arguments for and against disclosure, the government has respected the Curia's decision and published the studies it has commissioned in recent years, many tens of thousands of pages. It is clear from the published documents that opposition charges concerning studies have proved to be completely unfounded. However, there is another aspect of this issue. Indeed, the Constitutional Protection Office has recently published studies commissioned during previous left-wing governments from one of their favourite institutions, Political Capital, which received hundreds of millions of forints of orders during that period. [[11.50]] It turned out to be scandalously low - quality studies and, in many cases, ridiculous suggestions were made. Moreover, the question arises as to what is the need for communication advice and image-forming in the case of a National Security Office whose activities are characterised by discretion anyway. Allow me to give you some examples. For example, the consulting company suggested that official national security analyses be placed at bus stops and advertising posts. He also advised that the yearbooks of the Secret Service should be more tabloid. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I ask along with many people - perhaps left-wing representatives can answer that - what is a tabloid secret service yearbook like. The company, which is considered to be a pet, also suggested that the NVH should give a lecture in schools, and elsewhere, a speech panel was proposed that refers to kindergarten coloring book experiences. [[Interview from Fidesz: You can't start early enough!]] The previously encrypted master plan was also part of the NTH to organize a tour of a minimal exhibition, all of this - and here the quote begins - so that the exhibition would arrive on the announced site in a mission-like manner. You just keep thinking, but you just can't imagine what it's like to have a secret service exhibit on the ground. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] We could continue the line, but it's better to say quietly but firmly that these studies are as scandalous as they are ridiculous because they have been paid heavy sums. The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments only paid HUF 17 billion on the basis of advisory contracts between 2006-2010, this amount went to approximately 10 groups of companies. The government will examine the legal nature of these payments, examine whether they have been made at all. The studies on which payments are based do not exist in many cases, which raises the suspicion that there were no studies. Honourable Congressman, In summary, I can say that if lawlessness is discovered, I can assure you that the government will take the necessary legal action. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2016-04-18-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Ikotity, István, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2016-04-18-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:53 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Mr Lajos Oláh K/9866. He rejected the written question submitted to the Prime Minister on a serial number, as the motion does not fall within the remit of the government. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am sure that we do not agree with what I say, that the more diverse the textbook market is, the more diverse the pedagogical culture is, because you have done everything but to make the textbook market a diverse, diverse, high-culture segment of education. On 1 April, the school's book ordering period will begin for the next school year, and the mystery that has characterised this area for years will begin again. The government changed it radically three years ago, many say that it destroyed the system that had been in the past, since then a large proportion of textbook publishers have ceased, and the distribution of textbooks to a hugely expanded waterhead - many would say that KLIK, but not, but Kello - entrusted it. These waterheads, we see how they don't work in the country. Experimental textbooks have had a lot of problems and many problems, and textbook distribution is problematic to date, and many teachers are forced to play tricks on the nominally free textbook system. The demand for free textbook selection is also among the 12-point demands of the Civil Public Education Platform, and they also want nothing to limit the use of high-quality textbooks and competence-based textbooks and programme packages in education. I ask Mr. Secretary: why is it in your interest to maintain this state? This is not necessarily a financial issue, and it is also a matter of organization to allow the free choice of textbooks again. When do they give in to teachers' demands to re-open the textbook market? Will it be possible to order the textbooks that were on the textbook list in 2013 again, but since then they cannot be approved? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We could say that this was a 15 billion-dollar question on your part, honourable Member, because this question was about when we put 15 billion forints back in the pockets of textbook publishers compared to what we are leaving in the pocket of families and budgets, since from 1 September to the fourth grade this year, students will receive textbooks free of charge, and overall, the cost of textbooks has decreased by 36 percent compared to the period you are crying back, honourable Member, when market companies have skipped the benefits of the textbook system, and this money has obviously been paid by Hungarian taxpayers and families sending their children to school. Obviously, these textbook publishers may reach the Hungarian Socialist Party on a regular basis from time to time and raise this question as to when this 15 billion HUF will migrate back into their pockets. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The government is committed to this, and we are still on the side of an up-and-coming free textbook supply. We want to provide quality and cheap textbooks for all Hungarian families, which is why we are going on this road. Honourable Congressman, He told me about the history of textbook orders. Well, in last year's textbook ordering period, I don't think you can really describe a case where there was a logistical or other problem with any sort of post-ordering. In the previous years, under 1 percent, 0.25 percent was part of the textbook order, with which problems arose. But I could also ask you, honourable Member, why the Socialist Government had to sell the National Book Publisher, privatize the institution that was owned by the state and have been able to prepare textbooks for public schools. If this privatisation hadn't happened, this government might have been in a much simpler position, but we're developing a quality textbook. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with the involvement of over a thousand educators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: The title is given below. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2016-04-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We haven't had an answer for months to what your superiors want to do with the Fidesz representative, mayor, involved in the corruption case in Balmazújváros. As you know, Margit Veres, mayor of Balmazújváros, former notary is charged with misdemeanor and bribery. In December 2012, Veres received 5 million forints and a car from a local contractor, in exchange for the city's support of HUF 180 million. Margit Veres gave the 5 million forint bribes to the mayor of István Tiba in private the next day. In court, Tiba claimed that this was just a friendly loan, which was later repaid in two instalments. However, this loan was not included in Tiba's declaration of assets in 2012, so I initiated a declaration of assets proceeding against István Tiba. Last week, the Chairman of the immunity committee informed me in a letter that he had not launched the procedure, because the Member had replaced the debt of HUF 5 million missing from his 2012 declaration of assets after three and a half years. [[12.00]] In the meantime, there was another trial in the court, where the former deputy mayor of Tiba, who said that Veres and Tiba had misled the entire body of representatives in order to give the generous local entrepreneur a certain HUF 180 million from the city. It has also turned out that there will be another hearing of recordings in the court, which means that more skeletons may fall out of this large cabinet of fidesz corruption. Mr Secretary, my questions are to which I ask you to give specific, straight answers. Do you think it's right for someone after three and a half years to correct their property statements because of facts in a criminal case, and there's no consequence of that? Does the Secretary of State usually get friendly loans like this? Were you aware of Tiba's involvement in this matter when John Lazarus appointed him Minister of State last year? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Both Fidesz and MSZP supported the launch of Margit Veres in the 2014 elections. Do you think it was right to start (the president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.) Do you wish to do anything to ensure that Fidesz politicians involved in corruption disappear from public life before going to jail? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-04-18-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Speaker. Honourable Congressman, With your fascination with Congressman Tiba, it's hard for me to do anything about it. [[István Szávay: Béla Kovács! Béla Kovács!]] This is the third time you've been able to ask the same question. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You should answer it!]] What I can suggest the previous time is that you draw up a legal textbook, look at the difference between the witness and the defendant, and accept that the government against Jobbik is not trying to anticipate any judicial decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Gergely Kulcsár: Congratulations! An asset statement procedure?]]
u2016-04-18-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:.Do they increase the number of state higher education seats? Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-04-18-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The May Other of Politics also appreciates the little good that happens in the field of education. Such good news was a few days ago that more than 111,000 people applied to higher education this year by 5 percent compared to last year. As early as 2015, we saw a minimal increase, which seems to have continued now. Of course, we are not even close to talking about the return of the earlier application, since a few years ago there were 140,000 applications for higher education, compared to tens of thousands of applicants still missing. The reduction in the number of candidates cannot be explained only by demographic data. In this regard, we have requested data from the KSH and we have seen that the number of young people applying for admissions and the number of students admitted has also decreased within the age group. Former measures to reduce higher education have largely deterred young people from further education and, in this context, the ever-increasing emigration. Many young people no longer imagine starting their higher education studies in Hungary. The aim of the LMP is to create a knowledge-based society. We say that four out of ten persons should be graduates in Hungary, which helps to strengthen the knowledge economy. The degree is the path of individual and social ascension, our competitiveness and our sustainable development. Dear Secretary of State, The number of candidates has now increased again, but will the number of seats be increased in state higher education? Last year, 72,000 people got into colleges and colleges, and in the past, this number reached 100,000. Does the government aim to help young Hungarians get a degree by seeing the increase in the number of applicants, with public seats and scholarships? I look forward to your reply, with all due respect.
u2016-04-18-32	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2013, there have been no framework figures, and we have introduced the previous regulation. There is only one score, one measure of who gets in and how many get into universities and colleges, and this is the point they get in terms of admission, which determines who gets in, there is no other influence factor. So each one's own performance, his own knowledge, his own score determines whether he can get into, if so, where, and state-funded state scholarship or not. Other than that, it is only the capacity of universities that sets any limits on who and how they are recruited. The minimum score requirements and the capacity of universities therefore determine this. State Scholarship and Self-costed Training Candidates compete in a ranking. Therefore, if someone meets the minimum legal requirements, it may also happen that everyone is admitted to state scholarship training. In 2016, 280 points in basic and undivided training, 240 points in higher education and 50 points in master's degree are the minimum levels that are essential for success during admission. In 2016, the minimum score requirement above the minimum statutory score was set at 41 majors, also in the spirit of knowledge, which, as the Member said, the LMP is committed to. You said that 72 000 people have been recruited in the last year, 72 260, and 55 882 of them have been admitted to state scholarships, so that the framework that was set for the state scholarship framework last year has not been fully utilised, so let's look at this year's figures, which is probably not going to happen this year either. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the number of graduates between 2013 and 16 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's down from 72,600 to 66 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-18-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:, What road improvements are expected in the period 2014-2020 of the European Union in the region of Hajdú-Bihar County? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Bodó has the floor.
u2016-04-18-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The development of an area, a settlement, is largely determined by its accessibility, road connections. This is important not only for the people living there, but also for those looking for investment opportunities in the region, for foreign domestic guests visiting there. I believe that Article XXI should be amended accordingly. In the century, the need for safe and fast transport is not a special wish, but a fundamental right for people. It is pleased that the government is committed to road development and that the national transport infrastructure development strategy it has adopted and the new EU financial cycle up to 2014-2020 have an extraordinary potential for transport development. Between 2014-2020, the integrated transport development operational programme and the European Network Development Facility provide a total net budget of HUF 1605 billion for the Hungarian transport development, which will be complemented by additional EU and domestic resources. The European Union has adopted an integrated operational programme for the development of transport, which we can rightly be proud of. In the next step, it is necessary to accept the government's major projects for the development of the domestic road network. These developments must always be seen in context, since there are international aspects of an investment. For example, in my constituency, there is also the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar, where there is considerable traffic from Romania and there is an increased impact on the Bishop's Council and its district. In my view, in addition to the above-mentioned expectations, there is a need to place great emphasis on professionalism, as serious billion-dollar developments require maximum efforts to achieve the best possible quality, durability and cost-effectiveness. I ask Mr Secretary of State what road improvements are expected in the period between 14 and 20 in the EU [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and what road renovation works will start this year in the region. Will there be money? [[The president's ringing again.]] the development of the back road network? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, Tasó. You have the floor in two minutes.
u2016-04-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Thank you so much for asking, it's important. I would like to start right away by saying that, in 2007-2013, the whole of East Hungary was a stepchild in the distribution of resources. In this I must also point out the county of Hajdú-Bihar, that all the improvements that we had planned at the time and wanted to see them implemented were all behind us. Important investments have been removed from the list, and we have seen that we are once again at the end of the line. But from 2010 in Northern Hungary, South Hungary, Eastern Hungary, Hungary, the rural settlements and regions of Hungary could start the development, and we can also start and start a lot of serious investments in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, which are rightly proud of, and were very much looking forward to. Among these, as you mentioned, it will help to reduce freight traffic from Romania when it is built, and more precisely we will continue the border section with the M35, which will join the M4 in the area of Berettyóújfalu, and from there the corridor that has been mentioned several times in the last period will be built. [[12.10]] We will have a fast-track relationship - now the second one - with Romania, so in Hungarian: the Corridor we are planning to implement, we will definitely start to implement it from next year. But we would like to start this year both the M35 and the M4 and naturally the improvements we are preparing for. The renovation of Highway 471 has begun, and we will also naturally complete the 32 kilometres of it by deadline. The development of roads 42, 47 will also take place, and you know, Congressman, that the 47 is planned to continue, which we have already started in the southern section, to continue to the north, and the two lanes are also planned twice. At the moment, I am happy to report that developments and renovations are going to take place, and a lot of roads will be renewed in Hajdú-Bihar County for 48 kilometers, and I think that this step will continue, as the next year the government plans to launch an investment package of HUF 100 billion, from which Hajdú-Bihar County will not be left out. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-04-18-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. If there is money, is there a cure? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In one reply, we learned a great deal about health today when he replied to my fellow Member Ikotity. Health care in your version is perfectly fine, it's worth going to hospitals, because these hospitals are beautiful, doctors are prepared, they operate quickly, there's practically no problem at all. Secretary of State, there is; because fewer doctors, fewer nurses, are becoming more and more difficult to cure, and you are talking about how to deal with health problems with symptomatic treatment. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking you about a certain amount that has been used to reduce waiting lists, how and how it has been used, because these success reports, which I would like to use on health debate day, give me some cause for doubt. 'Cause no one in their circle of acquaintance is losing time until they get there until the surgery. On the other hand, Secretary of State, if we have already touched on your earlier sentences in health care, allow me to treat what you are saying with great reservations, with strong source criticism. For example, when you say that the greatest improvements have been made in the last five years, you quote inexactly because you have adopted the document - Healthy Hungary 2014-2020 - whose initial sentences say that the greatest development in health has been achieved in recent years, this should be known. And the problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that in the last eight years before the last six years, the proposals from which this most powerful development could have been made have been made. Mr. Secretary. I'd like your data on how to fix problems with only money, because if that's true, then health care needs to be given resources, there's no other way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-18-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have listened very carefully to your big bombastic counter-argument, in which you said that in our programme adopted in 14 you said that health improvements have been made in recent years, so they are no longer in your logic for the period of the Fidesz-KDNP government. So in 14 the Fidesz-KDNP was a former government, and in the previous four years, and in the two years since then. So thank you very much for confirming what I said before the agenda. Let me tell you about the waiting list reduction program. The MSZP-SZDSZ government didn't even have the courage to create a single waiting list registration system. The waiting lists were introduced by law, but they did not register them so that the exact number of people on these waiting lists could not be seen. What additional resources have we given for this since 2013? In 2013, HUF 786.5 million, HUF 431 million in the summer of 2014, HUF 1 billion at the end of the year and HUF 5 billion last year. In 2016 we will continue to reduce the waiting list by HUF 5 billion, which meant an additional HUF 12.2 billion in total for hospitals. How these surgeries were performed, you could see this, read on the Hospital Association website, on the website of some hospitals at the end of last year, where other options were available, if someone in a hospital closer to him couldn't get his surgery done, where else could he sign in for such surgery. It was rare for hospitals to invite patients from other parts of the country to do the surgery as soon as possible. Cataract surgery was the most common, 54 percent, so cataract surgery was performed in more than half, and the second most major surgery was hip and knee replacement surgery, which was 38 percent of all. Thanks to these, the waiting lists of 77,000 have shrunk to 34,000, and there will be funding for further shrinking in the next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Zita: special children's home or the limbo of hell? - Or some unpopular claims about Gypsy integration. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the shocking report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the press presented the special children's home in Kaposvár as a house of horror. I wondered what was true of the news: the antisocial youth institution functions as a special children's home or as the sensationalist headlines indicate, as a limbo of hell. I wasn't lazy, I visited the institution, I visited it completely, I spoke with a leader, educator, staff, young people; I was welcomed by order, cleanliness, and fully equipped. I have met such dedicated, but shamefully underpaid, workers who care about the fate of the very troubled young people raised there. They are doing everything they can to turn young people into people that are useful to society. That is why such homes and other areas of the social sphere should finally settle their wages and introduce a career model. The overall picture includes the fact that even the county newspaper wrote that 90 percent of the children in the foster home could meet Gypsy youths - they did not end up there by accident. Don't you think it's just a sign of the failure of your so far Roma integration policy? However, the population explosion and increasing disintegration within the non-adapted part of Gypsyism will only increase the existing problems, which there is no chance of resolving if, among other things, it does not start to know that talking about responsible childbearing is not racism at all, that giving birth young and giving birth to poverty is not a cultural right and value. Why don't you realize that instead of working to improve the area that really has problems, you're dragging the gypsy business and the whole country along with it towards the ravine? Why do they not realize that Hungarian society is in grave danger, because the problem with the compromised Roma leaders in their pockets will not be solved, but escalated? Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-44	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last six years, I think it has become clear to everyone in Hungary that those who work and have a child can expect as much support from this Fidesz-KDNP government as possible, given any post-regime government in the last twenty-some years. It doesn't matter what kind of origin he is, if he wants to work for his family, if he takes on children, he can expect greater benefits and greater support. Exactly what I'm saying is that you can expect compensation for the disadvantages of having children, I mean financial disadvantages, greater than ever before. So it doesn't matter to us who is involved in having children, and it doesn't matter who is involved in social care. The Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection has tried to improve the quality of care in all the institutions where it had the opportunity, and we have also tried to increase its wages at two paces with a sectoral wage supplement and a sectoral wage supplement, and from the additional sources of the 2017 budget we are trying to carry on these long-term wage development and sectoral programmes, which will be discussed between sectoral representatives and the State Secretariat in the coming weeks. Particular attention has been given to improving the placement of children with special needs, increasing the quality of care and ensuring their rights. During the period 2013-2015, we spent HUF 47 million on building security isolation units, which also concerns this news, which you reported. Two programmes in the operational programmes of the new planning cycle concern this area. [[12.20]] One is the replacement of children's homes, the modernisation of children's homes, the creation of missing children's home capacities. Here we also try to focus on children with special and dual care needs, and those working there within the development of social human resources project [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We try to help you with either supervision activities or further trainings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Will the nationalisation wave of the 1949-1953 period be repeated in vocational training? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is competent on the subject, by State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The nationalisation wave did not escape vocational training institutions. The only thing better for them was that they were eventually taken over not under the bankrupt KLIK, but by the vocational training centres created by the national economy and the agricultural portfolio. In addition to public schools, private schools have also been made difficult to operate. The signs so far have also indicated that they want to be forced into the state's reservation, which is used to define the training framework numbers. If you want to survive, you have to subdivide into the state system. They want to speed up this process now, and one of the side effects of which, with the end of the foundation, the foundation property should practically be transferred to the state. This is nothing more than the communion of private property. The LMP stands for foundational schools. Non-State institutions are a fresh spot for Hungarian education compared to the over-nationalised, centralized school system. They are freer, more flexible than public schools, to respond to parental needs, to the needs of students. Their special methods achieve excellent results. Dear Minister, Why don't you protect the diversity of the education system, why force everyone into public reservation? In addition, why do they communicate the private assets of the foundational vocational schools? Because that's what this is all about, because the accumulated assets and movable assets are intended to be used free of charge. It's like they're telling someone that you're gonna be the paper owner of your house and the furniture in it, but now we're gonna use it. Is the nationalisation wave of the 1949-53 period really repeating in vocational training? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-18-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-04-18-49	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, If a friendly conversation had come up with the suggestion you made here as a question, then I would have recommended to your friends that they re-read the history book about the period between 49 and 53 and try to interpret what you're describing there, because what you're saying is not realistic. [[Noise in the lines of the LMP.]] First of all, let us clarify what the purpose of vocational training is, what purpose we set when we tried to renew vocational training. The primary objective of vocational education and training is to develop a training structure in line with labour market needs, so it is important that the degree of eligibility of training is developed according to economic needs, and training offered by trainers is based on the relevance of the labour market. Therefore, training to meet the needs should be developed. [[Intercoms from the LMP lines.]] they'll listen to me, then they'll probably understand what I'm trying to say and I'd like to say. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: There's still one minute left.]] It is necessary to pay attention, it is apparent from the question being asked, since they do not understand the period between 49 and 53, it can be seen from the question. So what about private schools, foundation schools? Although the implementation of vocational training, as I have already said, is primarily the responsibility and responsibility of the State, it is only one option for non-State vocational schools to join a vocational training centre, which is close to regional and professional structures, which is maintained by the Ministry of National Economy on a voluntary basis. I would like to stress that this is an opportunity, not a compulsion. Access to the vocational training centre is therefore only one option, there is no legal obligation to do so, there has been no declarative call or legal imperative, and non-State training schools do not have to submit their assets in the event of accession. The accession of non-state vocational training institutions takes place taking into account existing educational, learning and work organisation procedures and organisational culture. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Instead of accumulation of wealth, we need a paradigm shift to focus on everyone [[The president keeps ringing.]] , students, the smooth functioning of the institutions, i.e. responsible care...
u2016-04-18-50	Thank you.
u2016-04-18-51	...and thinking [[The president's ringing again.]] I need it to stand. [[A round of applause in the ranks of the age groups. Dr. Ikotity István's intervention.]]
u2016-04-18-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . We spend less on medicines. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2016-04-18-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz is determined to put health care in order. Unfortunately, we have decades to catch up on this. Important elements and important goals include prevention, basic care, emergency care, strengthening of emergency services, infrastructure development of hospitals. Our aim is to prolong life expectancy, to extend the active age, to push it out, and also to reduce the burden on the population of medicines. I consider it a crime against the Hungarian people that the socialists have destroyed health care during their governance. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The period 2010-2014 essentially addressed the distortions caused by the careless activities of the former government. These measures were a strong basis for the continuation. Both the Fidesz-KDNP and the Government of Hungary are committed to further improving the country's health situation. One of our main objectives is to continuously improve the health of the Hungarian population. In addition to improving health, i.e. prevention, it is also important to improve patients' chances of healing. One of the important elements in helping to improve the chances of recovery is the definition of the range of medicines that are supported and making it easier to achieve them. Contrary to the period of socialist-liberal governance between 2002 and 2010, when the retail burden in the assisted pharmaceutical sector increased by HUF 60 billion [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , reducing the burden on the population has been a priority since 2010 by Fidesz-KDNP.
u2016-04-18-54	Thank you.
u2016-04-18-55	Dear Secretary of State, I ask what further progress has been made [[The president's ringing again.]] and expected in terms of the price of the medicines. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-56	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that, within two minutes of the opportunity given by the Rules of the House, the question be formulated, and I would ask the Secretary of State, Mr Rétvári, to draw up his reply within two minutes. Thank you.
u2016-04-18-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I am trying to give you two minutes to sum up how much the government has done over the last few years to reduce patients' drug spending, because we have seen how the increase in the amount of money that a generally elderly, sick person has had to leave in the pharmacy every year before this increase. Firstly, we have sought to achieve a large reduction in the price of the medicinal products that can be replaced as defined by the pharmaceutical authority. The price of many medicines in this circle has been able to decrease every year. We've introduced a new procedure called the "flash bet." Every six months, the financier advertises competition on the prices of medicines, and what is new is that the manufacturers themselves do not see each other's bids and bets on how much they would deliver these medicines. In the first full year, this meant a price reduction of HUF 7.5 billion for the Hungarian patients. This was followed by an additional HUF 2.5 billion in 2013, so the total benefit of the patients was HUF 10 billion as a result of the introduction of this new method, the blank, but in 2014 it was followed by an additional HUF 2 billion. Consider some specific examples. In 2010, the price of a gastric acid-lowering drug was 1000 HUF, and today you can get the same active substance for 200 HUF. [[12.30]] In 2010, the price of a cholesterol-lowering medicine, which is unfortunately also taken by many, was HUF 2200, and now the same active ingredient can be purchased for HUF 600. I think it all speaks for itself. The most recent decrease in drug prices was from 1 April 2016, with an average price of 59 medicines of 13.6 percent. The price of a reflux drug decreased by 50 percent, but there was also a significant reduction in drug prices in schizophrenia, bipolar disorders. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. Public employment is a dead end to increasing poverty? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, has the floor.
u2016-04-18-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. About 1 percent of our productive financial assets are spent on public employment. This is about HUF 340 billion this year. If I look at not one third of all active employment policy instruments, re-training and everything else, then this financial ratio is quite distorted. The net salary of these people today is HUF 52,000, compared to HUF 60 200 in 2010. In terms of purchasing power, almost a third of them were taken from these people. It is also important to know that, unfortunately, 7-13 percent of people present in public employment have time-related area-specific location rates, i.e. a lot of people are falling back into this system, the public employment system. In the meantime, you have reduced the duration of the job search support to three months, of course, the contributions will be collected in the same way as when the duration was one year or nine months. And you know that the duration of the position is about six to eight months before you have the chance to be able to get settled. In terms of financial inability, in terms of material deprivation, my colleague Korózs would immediately say that 23 percent of Hungary is living today, we are in the worst situation in the Visegrád 4 countries, but also in Europe. The threat of child poverty is 42 percent in Hungary. You have brought this world, while even the wages of the public workers have been reduced by a third in purchasing power, and in 2016 you have not raised a penny. When do you want to raise the wages of the public workers? What do you want to do to ensure that they are not in the public sector with a 20% percentage, but with civil servants, integrating them differently? When are you going to put an end to this trap so that public employment isn't a dead end to poverty? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-04-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to public employment, in particular the figures on poverty development, the question concerned a number of issues. These two minutes are obviously not suitable for a meaningful debate in this regard, as the statistics do not support what you say, and since 2013, the number of people living in poverty, extreme poverty and child poverty has decreased on the basis of the research carried out in line with the HCSO and EU standards, but I cannot clearly come to this in great detail. The difference between the minimum wage and the public employment wage: I think you know very well, and we all know very well in this House that public employment must be seen as a temporary form of employment both in its structure and individually, for each employee. Therefore, linking public employment pay with minimum wage or bringing it to a level would encourage the public employee to remain in this employment precisely. What you're saying about public employment wages, well, you know it's untrue, because a large number of the public workers can enforce the benefits of their children, so the public employment wage that your family gets is significantly higher, and it's much more than what you could ever get from you as aid. Your question about budgetary bodies includes either complete malice or indiscretion, as you know very well that those employed in municipalities, municipal social cooperatives, sample programmes are also registered with public finances and those employed in the public interest, so it is obvious that their number is high. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Gyöngyezett Kishantos, the truth has won. When will the government apologize for unscrupulous revenge? Can we finally have fair leadership of the national land manager? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2016-04-18-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In recent days, a number of outrageous events have overshadowed the operation of the already impeccable National Land Fund Management Organisation. Let us begin by saying that the final decision of the Curia on Tuesday has established that the second instance court ruling is correct, and in the case of the Kishantosi Rural Development Centre v NFA, the eco-economy was right. So, in spite of the attempt of the NFA, it is clear from political revenge that the land is being played over to the construction company, which is absurd in itself, and could not defend their position in court, even with the help of attorney Zoltán Kovács P., well-known from government circles. The Curia also stated that in the case of Kishantos, it was a piece of public wealth, it was illegal and unethical to squander it. The second priority case from the NFA house is that an investigation has been launched against the landowner's president, János Nagy, and the employees of the organization on suspicion of misrepresentation. This complaint was also initiated because of the suspiciously low priced state land purchased by the wife of Fidesz L. Simon László, and because of the state lands purchased at abnormally low prices by his minister's lord, his kin. I think, on the basis of all this, we are right to ask: how much compensation do the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government intend to pay to the Centre for Rural Development of Kishantos, the eco-economy? Will there be a consequence that the Court's judgment has proved that it was unjust, unnecessary, to destroy the European-famous model economy and thus eliminate decades of work? What could be the consequences of this, Mr. Secretary? Can János Nagy remain president of the NFA? Can the NFA law remain a failure in the field privatisations? When will there be substantial changes, and when will Kishantos finally receive compensation and justice? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2016-04-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, Kishantos didn't win any lawsuits because his contract expired. It would be difficult in court to prove that you didn't after it expired. Therefore, your question of what kind of compensation you may claim is also incomprehensible, since, as I said, your contract has expired, and we do not pay compensation after an expired contract. By the way, what you've highlighted is 450 hectares of a 27-acre estate and a lawsuit. There is no doubt that this is a problem, and we are not happy at all that a family deposit company has eventually lost these 27 hectares, namely because it has failed to provide a data on the sides of its application. Otherwise, it is not a construction undertaking, it is a brand-new company, and that is exactly what caused the problem of completing the application. But, of course, we take note of the Curia's judgment. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are eight winners for the state or for the new farmers, there are eight winners' lawsuits on whether or not these estates have been leased, or if they have seven winners' lawsuits, because although they have not won, we know the attitude that if I have not won, we should try to make sure that no one else wins, so that they have tried to attack each and every one of us. The court rejected him at all the other estates because he didn't find anything wrong with it. As far as pricing is concerned, honourable Member, I am surprised at the opinion of the prosecution myself, but I respect how it can be talked about infidelity at a public auction. 'Cause if I give something to someone for a sum, I say it's okay, let's see if it's real. But at a public auction where more people bid on how the case of unfaithful treatment develops, even I have to interpret it. Moreover, as far as pricing is concerned, I can actually tell you that the prices of the National Land Fund Manager are higher than the average land prices of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the average land prices of the leading bank. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2016-04-18-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Szél Bernadett, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2016-04-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Dear Parliament, We are now talking about the originally promised waste rubber processor for Százhalombatta, which is currently being forced into Kaposvár. It is clearly a situation that does not meet the opinion of the population there at all. We can see that the story of the rubber factory itself is very interesting. The Orbán government has already declared this a major investment, and the State Eximbank has received a nice loan guarantee, which is as meaningless as if the OTP loan would be for house building without land and building permit. Because to this day, they can't pass this facility away, and I'm not surprised at it at all. It is important to know that, on the one hand, there is a multibillion-dollar state loan on it, but it also needs to be seen that there are very serious questions being asked here, and there are environmental and health risks to this processor. It is important to know that when tyres are treated this way, they produce unpredictable hydrocarbons and approximately one third of the input mass is released from the plant in the form of slag. It is no coincidence that such pyrolising plants have not been economically operated anywhere in Europe so far, in full compliance with environmental standards. Beyond that, the Kaposvár people are right not to want one of these around their own house, because it is a completely unnecessary investment at all. The plant would burn 30,000 tons of rubber waste each year. In Hungary, a total of 40,000 tonnes of rubber waste is generated each year. By the way, according to the University of Debrecen, this amount is nearly 100 percent useful. Moreover, the country has 60 to 70 thousand tonnes of rubber processing capacity, i.e. no new processing facilities are needed at all. In one case, it may be necessary: if the Orbán government wanted to stop imports of waste rubber, which, I think, would be more than outrageous and would be equivalent to Hungary giving up accession to the European Community in this form. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think that they must now answer fundamental questions both for Kaposvár and for others. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] On the one hand, please tell me, Mr Secretary, what kind of waste will be used by the planned plant and whether they intend to import waste. And why not at all (the president is ringing again.) choose a more economical form of processing?
u2016-04-18-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm sorry to be so impatient here. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2016-04-18-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Homatech Recycling Zrt. an investment company established in 2015 for the implementation of an environmental project. Zrt. plans to invest in the recycling of rubber waste fractions and the production of oil products. Taking into account the experience of the existing waste processing plant in Dunaszterhely, Slovakia, for five years, OT Industries, previously Oil Plan Group, has prepared a basic plan based on the design documentation. With the help of the project, rubber waste generated in Hungary is used in the material of used tyres. They obtain valuable raw materials such as oil, industrial coal, steel and gas that can be sold from their activities. Hungary plays a significant role in the field of rubber production worldwide, with significant production residues. The planned investment is also a solution for the further exploitation of these materials. The procedure received the ISCC certificate, i.e. the European-wide Green Certification issued by Germany. Based on the examination of the Research Centre for Natural Sciences of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the adequacy of the technology has also been demonstrated. The investment will create 50 new jobs. The sales performance of the waste recycling plant resulting from the investment may also mean an increase in exports. Zrt. It was his own decision to look for a new location for his investment. And yesterday's fire in Szeged pointed out that the processing of waste [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Will you import waste?]] shall be used as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-18-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the Government intend to do to prevent infectious diseases caused by ticks? Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2016-04-18-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, the first invasion of ticks lasts from April to June. The situation in Hungary is becoming critical because of the ever milder winters. Ticks spread viral meningitis and Lyme disease. Of these, there are two types of vaccinations in Hungary, which are very important because, unfortunately, there is no specific antiviral treatment against the infection, therefore the most effective protection is prevention. One percent of the disease is fatal, 10 percent with permanent paralysis and another 30-40 percent with mental and physical impairment. Vaccines for viral meningitis are available in Hungary. Complete protection requires administration of three vaccines, followed by a booster dose every 3-5 years. The price of a vaccine is around HUF 6-10 thousand, so many cannot buy it, so they cannot defend themselves against the disease. Despite the importance of the government, it seems that it does not attach sufficient attention to this problem, as the government does not pay attention to other health problems. This attitude should be changed as soon as possible, since people's health should be one of the most important public affairs. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: what do you intend to do to prevent infectious diseases caused by ticks? When does the government plan or plan to ensure free tick vaccination, at least for our children, Mr. Secretary of State? As I said earlier, the tick invasion in Hungary is becoming increasingly dangerous. I'm looking forward to your reply. And I'd like to ask you how much you're spending this year on tick removal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-18-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The weather has finally been good again in the last few weeks, and this is a problem that I think everyone should be aware of in time. More and more people like to go to the parks, more and more people like to go out into the woods for trips, which is very good and very nice. It is therefore worth drawing attention to prevention and careful screening of ticks already at the beginning of spring. With proper clothing and the use of different alarms, we can eliminate the two diseases that the Congresswoman has said. On the one hand, tick encephalitis, meningitis, on the other hand, Lyme disease, meningitis. Fortunately, the indicators of these diseases were well developed in Hungary, since tick encephalitis was significantly reduced and remained persistently low compared to the mid-1990s. However, it was important that the National Centre for Epidemiology sent a national briefing to all Hungarian general doctors two years ago, in which he informed them, in addition to raising awareness, on how best to protect and prepare their patients against ticks, infection during the tick period. As many may well know, removing the tick itself does not require medical intervention, so everyone can do it themselves. As the Member said, there are vaccinations that protect against one group of diseases, but they do not give immunity to the other. But here, three vaccines are needed to establish primary vaccination, as the congresswoman said. Well, the method of removal, the examination of body parts, especially soft body bends, was also about the information material [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about vaccinations!]] sent to everyone by the Epidemiology Center. I think we can draw everyone's attention from here. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But if you are already involved, it will infect you in most cases!]] both for protection, preparation and after a forest trip for screening [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Talk about vaccination, Mr. Secretary of State. Nándor Gúr: Talk about support!]] the importance of monitoring and removal of ticks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-18-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: how long can the CSOK be used by murderers, refugees and non-workers? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr.Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on the subject, Mr.Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. President Novak. [[12.50]]
u2016-04-18-75	Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik is used to encourage the expansion of the family home creation discount, for example by extending the CSOK to university students and start-ups, following our written questions. However, I must now also push for certain restrictions. The CSOK can currently be claimed under the Government Decree if the criminal liability of the claimant and his spouse has not been established by the court. This means that the family is excluded from the benefit only if the claimant and his spouse have been convicted, so if only one of them has been punished, whether for manslaughter, the benefit is available. This certainly was not their intention, but it is a legislative mistake, that instead of the word "--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------but--------------------------------------------------------but---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- On the other hand, state support for home creation should serve the creation of Hungarian family homes, not of aliens arriving as migrants, and perhaps later acquiring some status to remain in Hungary. Thus, for emigrated, established, refugee and protected persons, thus without Hungarian citizenship, CSOK would not be allowed to be recruited by Jobbik, which is not required by EU regulations. Why, then, were they written in the government decree? Thirdly, the use of the CSOK should be conditional on both the claimant and his spouse being insured. This should include the adoption of child care premiums, childcare premiums and child rearing allowances as an insurance relationship. Jobbik says it's not enough for only one parent to have social security. You can, of course, bring specific cases, conflicting examples, but as a general rule, that would be the right thing to do. So, Mr. Secretary, how long can the CSOK be used by murderers, refugees and job-seekers? I look forward to your response, free of government self-police, focusing on the three problems. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-04-18-77	Honourable Congressman, The civil government launched the new home creation program in January because it wants every Hungarian family to get their own apartment or house at an affordable price. The program also encourages children, according to the government's intentions, which is important because we know that Hungarian population figures are not good enough. For this reason, when determining the condition of the CSOK application, the government sought to provide as wide a circle as possible to create a home, thus helping to have children. For this purpose, we do not consider it appropriate to exclude those who have successfully reintegrated into society from the home-building programme after their criminal immunity. This position, by the way, does not go against the general position of the government that criminals should be in prison. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that bringing your proposal into the regulation could put the children of former offenders at a disadvantage. In parentheses, I would like to point out that, on the basis of your proposal, the child of the former betterman, who was convicted of violence against an official in 2011, could also be put at a disadvantage. As far as non-Hungarian citizens are concerned, we believe that those who are legally resident in Hungary and wish to increase Hungary by their work deserve the opportunity to apply for a family home-building discount. Allow me, however, to inform you that in the first two months of this year, i.e. in the opening phase, thousands of applications have already been accepted by the banks as home-building support, worth about HUF 6 billion, and 55 percent of the subsidies will go to large families, so every other family or large family requiring a CSOK needs a new property, this is an important fact. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It also shows that although there may be differences of opinion on specific issues, the home creation programme provides substantial help to families with children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question, 'Do you continue to watch hundreds of thousands of people exodus?' It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-18-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The situation is brutally wrong with the emigration of young people. In recent years, two data show that young people are leaving Hungary at an accelerated pace. This is about the data of the HCSO, so I hope you won't call the activities of the Statistical Office opposition propaganda. We can see from the numbers, the numbers of the KSH, that last year 33,000 people decided to leave the country permanently. In addition, they need to know that this number can be significantly underestimated, since they can only count those who have reported it to the official authority by reason of the nature of the data collection, i.e. the fact that they are leaving. But this 33,000 number is also a negative record, meaning that Hungary has lost a small town of young people, because they have not found their calculations at home. There is another piece of news, which is based on the central bank's statements, and they may not even be able to accuse the central bank of opposition propaganda. It turned out that Hungarians who were going to commute to a foreign country were earning HUF 950 billion in total. It is also a matter of young people, by the way, and they are working abroad because of lower wages, and Austria and Germany are the ones they choose. I would like to add that if these people could work in Hungary, if they were only declared on average, the domestic budget could be enriched with tax and contribution revenues of 120 billion. This means that the budget will give up tax and contribution revenue for HUF 120 billion because it cannot offer jobs on normal wages for these young people. If these trends continue in this way - and we have no reason to believe that they will not continue - up to 100,000 young people can leave Hungary this year, not out of an adventure desire, but because they do not have the right place at home, there are no conditions to fulfill their calculations. Dear Secretary of State, What does the Hungarian government think of this situation?
u2016-04-18-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, By comparing the percentage of people working abroad with other Central European countries, we can see that Hungary is far from the countries from which many people actually go to work in Western Europe. In Poland, if I had a debate about the percentage of Poles working abroad, they would say around 6 percent, while here you mentioned 33 thousand people, and in total, they estimate about 2 percent of those working abroad, that is 6 percent in Poland. It would probably trigger an even more heated debate. A similar debate in Bucharest, since 10 percent of the Romanian population is said to be working abroad. Compared to these, the Hungarian figure, the Hungarian figure, shows that much more Hungarians think compared to our Polish and Romanian friends that they prefer to imagine their future in their own country, in their own country of origin. But, of course, everyone has the opportunity to work abroad, obviously there are those who try to be lucky for better money, for a better living elsewhere, some who are challenged, some who are driven by curiosity, but we cannot take away the right, the opportunity to choose their job or place of residence elsewhere in the EU, using the freedom of employment. We strive to offer favourable conditions to everyone at home. As you know, honourable Member, there was a peak in youth unemployment in 2012, since then the youth unemployment rate has been halved, not by chance, not by spontaneous processes, but by way of a very large part of the action plan for the protection of jobs and an important part of the Youth Guarantee Programme. The Youth Guarantee programme has a total value of HUF 200 billion. In addition, there is a family and home support system in the framework of the CSOK, which is not really typical in Western Europe, where someone can live in a living room only in Hungary, in addition to the work of a life. Real wages increased by 15.4 percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the job protection action plan itself has helped 161 thousand young people with a total tax reduction of 379 billion to find work at home under the age of 25. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Risky investments were offered to their employees by the ministries, or were the soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers really looking for trouble for themselves? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. [[13.00]]
u2016-04-18-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, For a year, you have promised help to soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers who have lost their health fund savings because of bank failures. Now we know that it was all part of a political charade, that you tricked and deceived the victims. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Instead of acting, John Lázár blamed the soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers, for the situation. In his last reply, he explained, and I quote, that when these people placed their savings in a place far above the average risk, they did not ask the Minister of Defence's opinion, they did not ask the opinion of any supervisory minister. When the risk had to be decided, we didn't need our advice. Now, when the risk has come true and they've lost everything they've saved so far, we need our help. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. The sentences of John Lazarus were extremely unfair and offensive. For soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers did not invest in bonds promising unrealistic returns, they did not trust their money to broker companies, as did the foreign affairs companies led by Péter Szijjártó, or the agricultural purses led by Sándor Fazekas. Soldiers chose a state-supported, rigorously operating form of savings, in which the Hungarian National Bank of Supervision did not indicate any risk either. The Ministry of Defence has also provided a health bank contribution as a cafeteria for many years. Who did the Ministries ask about the risks? Maybe the National Bank? The employees of the armed forces and bodies could only ask for their tax refund here at the health bank after the private pension fund had ceased. If they were accused of risking their money irresponsiblely, John Lázár, what would he say to the ministries, which, by the way, including yours, led to the outbreak of the scandal for another year. Then who was the irresponsible Secretary of State? We saw that they also supported a law to help victims of financial institutions falling in. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At Buda-Cash, who has invested directly, you get compensation. [[The president's ringing again.]] Soldiers, national security, law enforcement, apparently not. What will the Ministry do? Thank you.
u2016-04-18-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the speaking time limit is two minutes. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Nándor Csepreghy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-85	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to express my sincere appreciation for your commitment to this matter. But some facts are worth clarifying. On the one hand, the fact that the Honvéd Health Fund was essentially only a private defender on behalf of him, there was no legal relationship between him and the Ministry of Defence, which would have made it compulsory for workers there to send their compulsory health insurance contributions here. The Ministry of Defence, if this was done by an employer or employee indicating another cashier, has transferred these funds elsewhere. As you know, as you have heard in Parliament at least four times, in response to the question that EU legislation does not allow for the type of claims settlement that the government has been able to resolve in the case of Quaestor. Perhaps allow me to propose an in-party consultation between you and Mr Ujhelyi, who could initiate such a legislative amendment at European level in the European Parliament. However, it can be seen that the Member and the MSZP fraction are basically only in the country's report in Brussels. At a time when legislation should be amended that could possibly resolve this issue, they are less active in this matter. I think, Congresswoman, that your argument would be absolutely correct if, on 9 June 2015, you had voted in favour of the law which would have made it possible to prevent such abuses and situations from occurring in the future; therefore, you would be committed not only at the level of words but also at the level of action. Thank you very much for your attention. [[(Unique applause in the pro-government benches. Márta Deme inter: So nothing is happening.]]
u2016-04-18-86	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the saddest news of the past period was the incident in which a middle - aged woman died suddenly, reported by the media. The death was followed by an official investigation, the lessons of which should be drawn now. On the basis of a statement from the Ministry of State for Health requesting the investigation, we are now concerned that the rescue service and the hospital acted in accordance with the rules of the profession in the care of the 37-year-old foreign woman who died in early March. The reason the case received wider media attention is because in it, as a drop of the sea, it includes all the problems of emergency care in Budapest, patient transport and rescue. Let us briefly recall what happened and what we know at the moment. As the case was first reported in Népszabadság, in short, the lady in her mid-30s collapsed on the street. For patients suspected of having a stroke, see section XII. Paramedics were alerted in the district, who were directed to St. Imre's Hospital by the emergency room at St. John's Hospital. However, that hospital had previously canceled the reception of the patient requiring intensive care, so she was taken to the substitute St. Margaret Hospital, where the on-call physician, in the absence of a neurologist, refused to take over. Then the St. Imre indicated, but in this case, he still receives the patient. But in the meantime, the woman's circulation stopped, she wasn't in transportable condition. She had to be resuscitated, ended up in St. Margaret's Hospital, but she passed away shortly after. The case has pointed to the deficiency, and this is perhaps the most important one, which is not new, that the sick-slaughter system has been in place in Budapest for almost a decade, and not only the sick, but also the workers and institutions are seriously injured by this system. The person who set up such a system was not willing to modify it to the first crisis phenomenon; perhaps he was responsible. In view of all this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why the health government is willing to review the conditions that have been known for many years, only on the basis of a case that raises greater media dust. When is it expected that the system of sick removal, where they bid on each other, will send patients all over Budapest? When does the government plan to resolve the medical care in Budapest so that similar cases do not occur? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have begun your speech, this case has been thoroughly investigated by the Health Secretary of State, as you have quoted in the news, there have been hospitals involved in this, the emergency services involved. That is why the Secretary of State for Health wanted to get to the bottom of this unique case, and that is why you and others know these facts. After all, it is important to learn from all such cases; and it is important to clarify what further details are needed in order to prevent such a problem from occurring. However, it must be said that nothing of the kind of ping-pong that you have said has happened, or that you have given it away, honourable Member, what you have said. The ambulance transported the patient directly to the care facility - contrary to previous press reports - even though his life could not be saved. Obviously, for better communication between hospitals and emergency services, between the State Healthcare Services Centre and the Rescue Service, the OMSZ provides different TETRA radios for hospitals to help coordinate. The conciliation process has been taking place for a long time, regardless of this, in which the National Rescue Service, the Budapest Hospital Managers and other representatives of the profession discussed the possibility of restructuring the surgical on-call care in Budapest, Budapest. On April 1st, this new system was launched. In the framework of this, where there is active surgical care, patients who arrive from their respective areas should be admitted every day of the year and 24 hours of the day. This system, although at higher cost, also provides greater safety for patients. That is why we have decided to introduce this new system and, obviously, rescue services continue to play a very important role in other professions. So from April 1st, I see that this system is working better, no problems have been reported. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Without paid day care workers, is the cradle-building programme an empty promise? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Last week at a press conference, we heard from the Ministry that by 2018-19, the number of cradle seats could increase by 10,000 from nearly 50,000. I would like to add, however, that this figure of 50,000 came out with a nice calculation of the institutional places that were implemented in alternative care. These are the family daycare centers that the Fidesz-KDNP government has systematically tried to destroy in recent years. In any case, the facts are stubborn, and we know that intraday benefits provided accommodation in 2014 for only 16.8 percent of the age group. [[13.10]] This means that Hungary has been able to meet half of the EU's standards recently. They seem to be beginning to see that this is not going to work, and in the heat of the campaign, Fidesz-KDNP has already promised a lot of new seats, such as an extension of the supply obligation. From next year, it is not only mandatory for settlements over ten thousand to provide day care for those living there, but also for municipalities in whose territory there are at least 40 children under three years of age or where there are at least five children in need of care. I would like to tell you that extending the obligation to supply will not solve the problem, nor will there be a cradle of EU money to work if wage increases do not go further. What we see is that we need paid and respected daycare workers. I think you've made more statements in the media than these people have received forints, or as much as a percentage of daycare workers have received some kind of pay supplement. We see that only one-tenth of the workers received a raise from small children; I am talking about 10-15 percent of 10 000 daycare workers, 700-800 people, and 90 percent of them were paid by Fidesz-KDNP to this day. There will be a strike on April 20, the daycare workers will strike; 3-4 billion [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would cost forints to settle their wages. Do they meet the strike demands? Expanding the Life Career for the Child [[The president's ringing again.]] in the case of educators, for post-secondary workers with a higher education qualification? How do they proceed in this case...
u2016-04-18-92	Congresswoman!
u2016-04-18-93	...Dear Secretary of State?
u2016-04-18-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I don't know where to begin to correct your speech. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Will there be a raise?]] Maybe family day care. You're saying that the government wanted to take out the family day care centers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know that as a family nursery, former family daycareers can continue to function in much wider opportunities. In addition, new forms of care, the mini-cradle or the nursery at work, are also used to supervise children and to raise them in a good environment. This has been an extension and a broader scope of the possibilities so far. And it is also important that we say not only for the future that there will be more cradle seats, but we have also proved it in recent years, since we have spent 28 billion forints on it; we have created 6 thousand new cradle seats; we have modernised 4900 seats, thus improving the supervision and care of children under the age of three. And our announcements say that we will continue to do so, and we would really like to raise nursery care to a higher level, or to provide this to everyone in several settlements. The first step in the wage increase, which you mentioned here, was a wage increase for those with a higher education degree, and they're connected to the teacher-promotion system. This meant a 30-40 percent increase in earnings of 40-60 thousand HUF per month net. For the rest of you, honourable Member, there is also a discussion in these hours between the Hungarian Cradle Association and the Secretary of State, precisely what additional resources could be used to improve wages in the coming years. We hope that soon, within a few weeks, an agreement will be reached, and this will provide more security for all daycare workers, and will also make this career attractive for those who can work in these new cradles, which we will have a thousand and ten thousand, in total, in eight years, with greater enthusiasm. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-18-96	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: How much money did the municipalities have to add from their own resources to ensure this? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-18-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last year, Károly Czibere said that 208 thousand children will also eat on holiday, and the government will provide 4.5 billion forints. We had already indicated that there were many more children in need, since nearly 500 thousand people were entitled to a discount meal at this address during the year. In order to narrow down the number of children in need of holidays, the government did not impose the right to a regular child protection benefit as a condition, but a disadvantage or cumulative disadvantage, which is a subset of the group of children in need. Last year, we also said several times that even the announced 200 thousand children would not have enough to eat. Since then, it seems you've started counting too. The problem is, there's still something wrong. Recently, they announced that they would increase the budget for the holiday meal by HUF 800 million, because they increased the daily allowance to HUF 570 from HUF 440. I would like to quote Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State: "Don't give the children less good quality food," he explained. The Secretary of State also acknowledged that this amount was not enough to pay for the entire holiday meal, so that the municipalities would have to supplement it. So they admitted that neither HUF 4.5 billion nor HUF 5.3 billion would be sufficient. In connection with the report by UNICEF, Zsuzsa Ferge said that Hungary is not a child-friendly country, so it is not a future-friendly country, Mr. State Secretary. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: why do you think now that 4.5 billion forints will not be enough? Why doesn't the government provide the full amount for holiday meals? How much more do municipalities have to add to ensuring free meals for children in need? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are dealing with a typical socialist speech. A representative of the MSZP stands up, no matter who gets out of the faction [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: As an MSZP representative!]] And he says the government spends 5.3 billion forints on a holiday meal, and that's not enough. How much did the socialist government spend on this against 5.3? [[Lajos Korózs: There were half the poor children!]] 2.4 billion. 2.4 billion was enough, 5.3 billion was not enough for the socialists. And how much was the whole register? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There are so many children in need, Mr. Secretary of State, that this amount is not enough! The president's ringing the bell.]] And how much was the entire register that the socialist government spent on social catering? [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Totally wrong answer!]] 29 billion forints. How much does the Fidesz-KDNP government spend? Over 70 billion. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] And what do the socialists say? That theirs, the 29 billion, was enough, and the more than 70 billion were not enough for social meals, for children's meals. How many young children, nursery and kindergarten children... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. How many children in kindergarten and kindergarten have the socialist government paid 100 percent for their meals? Ninety-two thousand. How many will the Fidesz-KDNP government pay? 318 thousand. 92 thousand was enough for the socialists, 318 thousand was few. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can someone be so cynical, Mr. Secretary of State!]] This is a street in which I do not know why they are taking part from week to week, my fellow socialists. As for the participation of municipalities: as the previous figures have shown, children receive a higher amount of support than ever before; the number of holidays in which we provide this meal has increased, not only in summer, but also in autumn, spring and winter, we provide social meals for children during the holidays. Local governments with low tax power in Hungarian: municipalities of poor municipalities, nothing [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is there such a thing as poor settlement, Mr. Secretary of State? There is no such thing in Hungary, Mr. Secretary.]] You don't have to add it. There's nothing to add. For those who have their own tax revenue, because there is industry, because there is business tax revenue, and they have their own income, there is a part to be added. But where the most needy children are, there is nothing to add to the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-18-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is the government open to re-regulating the student representation system? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-101	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I've been asking students' interests on a number of occasions. According to Jobbik, unfortunately, this area is regulated very poorly and does not give students every opportunity to stand up for their rights, and even in recent years there has been a step backwards, for example in the area of student self-government. However, this would not only be important in terms of standing up for their own rights, but it could be a socialisation process in the lives of young people that would strengthen their public activity. This would be very necessary, because unfortunately, many of these age groups are uninterested and indifferent to our public affairs. It says a lot about your attitude, as they answered one of my recent written questions, where I asked why they did not create the opportunity for students to have a say in questions that concern them. Your little cynical response sounded like this:. All draft legislation is published on the website of the Ministry of Human Resources, and this is accessible and accessible to all. I think that this cynical response speaks for itself, which means that you expect students to search your websites, and that's how you should look for them with your suggestions. [[13.20]] However, I trust myself - and I do not want to put up with this situation, and I trust - that you will also have openness in order to improve student representation. This could be a step in re-regulation of the National Student Parlament. There has been a need for this important body not only to be convened every three years, but more often. It is also a serious need that, like the HÖOK present in higher education, students participating in public education also have a body that can be a negotiating partner for the current government in cases involving them, including the three-year sessions of the National Student Parliament. On this basis, I ask: do you wish to convene the National Student Parliament next year on the basis of the regulations currently in force, or do you have openness to do so on the basis of a new structure? What is the government's position on the convening of the National Student Parliament more than three years ago? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are trying to take advantage of every opportunity we have to allow as many young people as possible to speak in public life, as many as possible. One form of this is precisely that they can express their views on the Internet. Jobbik often likes to say that about himself - maybe he still didn't believe it, so many times he says to himself - that he is XXI. Party of the century. I think it's the 21st. as party of the 20th century, communication on the website, the possibility of commenting on the legislation on the website [[Dóra Dúró: Oh, Bence! Oh, Bence.]] to say something meaningless, I think it contradicts other questions, but in addition, we strive for students, the representatives of students, which are obviously constantly changing from age to age, inviting and consulting them as often as possible. Many people will come to our ministry tomorrow, representing several organizations, as the representatives of both the Hungarian Youth Conference and the National Youth Council are two weeks' guests in the building of our ministry. They can tell young people, students their interests, their opinions in their representation. We asked them not only to give the opinions of the two organisations, but also to convey the views of all other youth organisations and interest representatives. [[Gergely Farkas: I'm interested in the government's position.]] In addition to their own opinions, they are also responsible for the fact that the opinions of all other organisations dealing with young people, bringing together young people, should appear on the decision-makers' table on the current issues of education. They do so from time to time, and obviously, if the Student Parliament has a proposal to extend its own operation, to make the students' voice even louder, of course they can do so, obviously they will do so in their own form, forward it to the Ministry, forward it to the National Youth Council. A National Youth Council was set up to cover all the youth organisations in the home. It is difficult to highlight one or another of these. We hope that each of them can represent another. We regularly consult with NIT or the other organization, MIK, from time to time. We're hoping you'll give us other people's opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:23 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Are you ordering a salary of five million, Mr President? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2016-04-18-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear President of the Bank, The question is: did you order a salary of five million? But I can ask you another way, if you say no to this: do you agree that you are entitled to a salary of HUF 5 million? Because if you say in this House today that you think that this is excessive, and you don't think that you deserve it, or that you shouldn't receive it for any other reason, then I'm sure most Members of Parliament will be willing to adjust it back to the original state. You said that Hungary wants to catch up with Austria. Well, there's one thing I'm sure you've done, and that's your salary. When you were a member of the government, Mr President, you were proclaimed to pay more than 2 million forints of state salary indecency and immorality. Now, do you still agree with that opinion? Because your salary is more than double that. Don't you think that's rude now, Mr. President? I would like to ask you if you think it is justified that you have a salary similar to that of the President of the Austrian Central Bank, or let me say at all that you are not receiving a salary below the EU average as the President of the Central Bank, until then health workers, or, let us say, social workers, are in the last place in the European Union. When you earn 5 million forints, these workers, let's say, on average in health care, their net wages are less than 100 thousand forints or about 70-80 thousand forints in the social sphere. So, I would ask you, Mr President, that when this is the case in the public sector, when you are looking for it, is it really justified to raise your salary from approximately HUF 3 million to HUF 5 million. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-04-18-107	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I refuse to use your language. As a former Member of Parliament, as former Minister and as current President of the Central Bank, I believe that no one in the legislative process orders anything, especially no salary. Especially not the President of the Central Bank. This isn't a restaurant, a pub or an Internet parcel service. [[Lajos Korózs: That was wonderful!]] We are not ordering, but we are thoroughly preparing laws - you - and in this case I think that you have properly considered some important conditions. The first is that it has been proven since 2010 that the Hungarian State has successfully carried out actions of economic importance. Such is the consolidation of the budget, such is the monetary political turnaround, such is the turn of growth; Hungary and the Hungarian state are successful. The leaders of the Hungarian state must be paid, and they must be paid well. Those who, at the decision of the Parliament, are already paid within the public sector, well, correctly, properly - such as the leaders of public companies - have been made the right decision, and I think that the same is the right decision in the case of the Hungarian National Bank or, in the case of other state institutions, the reference to wages paid in their own territory. Compared to the Hungarian banking system, Central - Central! - the payment of the central bank president or the Vice-Presidents in the payment category. [[Dóra Dúró: Poor people!]] But I think, Mr President, that if you were to consider the results that the Hungarian State has achieved over the past six years, you should have asked for the increase in salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-108	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in return. You have the floor.
u2016-04-18-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's hard to find words for that amazing answer, Mr. President. The thing is, you know, you voted in favour of your predecessor's salary here in Parliament. Now, compared to this, you think it's unduly small, and you're gonna have to earn more than that man. But he believes that it is justified to make, say, four times as much as the Hungarian Prime Minister, and it is justified that he should receive such a high salary compared to other people and leaders working in the public sector. I think, Mr President, that the person who holds this position should have the sense of reality of raising my own salary so high - and unfortunately, yes, it seems to me that today the fashion of ordering the law and ordering these rules from the outside, unfortunately, is the case, so I asked you - so first it supports the need for other people to look for the European Union in the right way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you don't support him doing it himself. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, President György Matolcsy is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-111	Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Once again, it's not a pub, it's not a restaurant, it's not an Internet parcel service. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It should be.]] The President of the Central Bank does not order a salary for himself, nor does he order a central bank law; he serves, and for this service he receives a salary similar to that of state leaders. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Small salary.]] If it's too much or too little, let's all decide for ourselves. I, representing my own profession, can say that it is right - right! - if the heads of the Hungarian central bank, the Vice-Presidents, the President, the Executive Directors and the Directors at least reach the central level of payment of the banking system, the President of the Central Bank and his Vice-Presidents will earn less than the heads of the Slovak central bank [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] And they'll make as much money as the Czechs. [[13.30]] Do you really think that we are performing worse than the Czech Republic or Slovakia? If that's what you think, you're wrong, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. An uproar in the opposition's benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And the nurses give you worse? First of Novak, showing around the hall: Do you need any of the paintings yet?]]
u2016-04-18-112	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. My fellow Members, please remain calm. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, from the Jobbik Group, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Will you, Prime Minister, answer the question, which seems to be an embarrassing question, who is Árpád Habony, which you have denied? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-04-18-113	Mr. President. I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister to do this. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-114	Thank you. On this basis, the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, On the occasion of Earth's Day, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said to Zoltán Orbán that: "The environmental protection is left-wing issue, the issue of rich countries, hinders economic development, we do not spend on it. What's the matter with you? It's an The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-04-18-115	The President quoted precisely the scandalous statement leaked from the Prime Minister, whose explanation awaits Viktor Orbán. I'll wait. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-116	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "Does the government agree with itself? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the signal of István Szávay:]] Yes, I'll give the floor to the congressman.
u2016-04-18-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, What is due to someone else is due to us, too - we have heard on very many occasions in forums and declarations of national policy other than Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, including in support of the various autonomy of Hungarians abroad. As we have heard many times from the Deputy Prime Minister, we welcome him, of course, with his previous statement that the Hungarians living in the bloc deserve territorial autonomy and cultural autonomy for the Hungarians living in the sporadic. We have also heard many times from the Deputy Prime Minister that the Hungarian Government has a duty to support the autonomy and self-determination efforts expressed by foreign communities. So at the level of principles, this often appears on the part of the government, but when there is a practical opportunity, a practical case, you are usually covered in silence. This is how it happened the last time there was a specific case, a specific national case, in which we should speak, and Hungary should support the autonomous efforts of the formation of Transcarpathia. On 5 April, the Transcarpathian County Council made a submission to the Head of State, Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the Speaker of the House, in which they asked Kiev for greater self-determination for Transcarpathia and recalled the outcome of the 1991 referendum, according to which 75 percent of the region's population, the vast majority, stood up for autonomy and, moreover, decided at the same time to establish a Hungarian autonomous district. These decisions have not come true since then. They want this refurbished in this submission, which is a fundamental Hungarian interest, and I do not think the State Department has spoken on this issue. But there was no comment either that Governor of Transcarpathia of Hennady Moskal asked for the annulment of the result of the referendum at that time, which is strange because that referendum also provided for Ukraine's independence. What is the government's true position? Do you support the autonomy efforts of foreign communities or not? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Who's right? Who should we listen to about the government's position? Zsolt Semjén or the silence of the State Department? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman! Thank you very much for this question, although I suspect that if you really wanted an answer to this question, you might describe what you would like to talk about here today. In short, I would like to say that the Hungarian government fully supports the autonomy efforts of minorities along the Hungarian border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-120	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-18-121	Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased that it was only possible to answer this question without having received it in advance, quite exhaustively, although there was still much to say in the two minutes. We would be pleased to hear that, not only within Parliament's walls, but also in bilateral relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has expressed its support for various autonomy and self-determination efforts as many times as possible. In this particular case, it would be good to speak now, and Hungary would also give an opinion on whether it supports the autonomy initiative of the Transcarpathian County Council. The last 25 years have been 25 years of missed opportunities, Mr. Secretary of State. The last 25 years have always been about the need for us to advance gestures, avoid conflicts, and this will lead to some kind of outcome. For all neighbouring countries, it is clear that this tragic practice across governments has led nowhere anyway. It would be good for the government to speak clearly and state its position on these issues now. Let us not fall into the mistake that we have made, even at the Presidency of the Union. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] missed opportunities or even in connection with Romanian accession to the EU. Support clearly and clearly the autonomy of the Transcarpathians. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go.
u2016-04-18-123	Congressman! We agree that the government's support is indeed needed. I can assure you that these very serious issues are discussed at all bilateral meetings, and it is also apparent that the survival of Transcarpathian Hungarians would have been very difficult to maintain without the very effective humanitarian assistance of the Hungarian government in recent years. I feel that we are on the right track, we are in the right direction, but I also ask for your support in keeping and strengthening the power of Transcarpathian Hungarians together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-124	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Does the offshore settlement policy carry security risks for our country? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2016-04-18-125	I'll take it.
u2016-04-18-126	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-18-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The last week was about the worldwide offshore scandal from Panama, now millions of people from Moscow to London, from Washington to Reykjavík realized how their own political leaders hid their own assets from citizens and taxpayers, and how they cut their own country's budget by not taking their own fates with them, choosing tax avoidance forms. The May Other has been calling on the Orbán government for years to account for one of the very few tangible promises it has made, the removal of offshore knights from public funds. Now, by now, the offshore is very close to the government: there are the old oligarchs, now there are the new oligarchs, Andy Vajna, the MNB, all of them have proven to be involved, and we are now sitting in a room with a fidesz representative who is familyly involved in the offshore scandal. One thing is certain: the government manages the hundreds of billion-dollar settlement bond business with the help of Antal Rogán, that virtually all traffic or traffic is still going through offshore companies. We see that up to February this year 3,500 settlement papers have been sold worldwide. Now, the only thing we don't know about this 3,500 settlement policy is who got rich through offshore companies and exactly who took advantage of the government's opening opportunity. And here's a very serious question. You, who seem so sensitive to security risks, have not yet been able to respond to the safety risks that are inherent in the fact that opaque companies have granted incompatible customers the right of establishment in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, What security checks do those who obtain such settlement bonds undergo?
u2016-04-18-128	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Annex II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals of 2007 Law No. 28 Paragraph 5 of the Act refers to the approval of undertakings which conclude contracts with the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. for the sale of the settlement government bond. [[13.40]] Paragraph 2 of the Parliament's Economic Committee refers to the approval of undertakings which conclude contracts with the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. for the sale of settlement bonds. (13.40) The Committee also adopted a decision on the criteria to be examined in the course of the approval of the undertaking. For this reason, companies selling settlement bonds will always be selected by the Economic Committee. You, as a Member, have the right to address a question to the Economic Committee and ask for information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Constitutional Protection Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the police shall act in order to determine whether the establishment of a third-country national endangers Hungary's public security or national security. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I stress that, for each application, each case will be investigated by these organisations. In the course of the procedure, the individual national security and public security assessment of each applicant for a residence permit shall be carried out in full. Without this procedure, a national residence permit shall not be issued without such authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I answered your question and told you which bodies are investigating which organs act and which bodies ensure that Hungary's national interests are enforced. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-130	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2016-04-18-131	I am a little sorry that the Secretary of State pointed to virtually everyone to whom I should turn, from various services to the Economic Commission; I think it would be easier to play clearly. I think it would be easier to play with offshore companies not getting settlement bonds in this country. I think it would be easier to keep the election promises and sweep the offshore close to the public money, and I think it would be easier to resign to Members who are involved in an offshore scandal. It is a very serious hypocrisy that, while talking about the threat of terrorism and the protection of borders, they practically increase security risks. In spite of any kind of due diligence, I think that if an opaque company, an opaque personal circle, is allowed close to Hungary, it inevitably carries a security risk, because, think about it, Mr. Secretary, they want to remain opaque for a reason. I think it's outrageous that, almost exclusively for offshore purposes, a huge commission business in this country has basically been specialised in offshore companies. I think the least they can do is whiten this and say, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the minimum that the ownership background must be transparent [[The president's ringing again.]] To get someone a settlement policy. When are they gonna get away with this? [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-18-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I answered the questions you asked me. I told you which bodies are entitled to identify safety risks, which bodies are responsible for and responsible for [[Dóra Dúró: It's all right!]] This is the very important task. I told you that the Constitutional Protection Agency, the Counter-Terrorism Center and the police are involved in these matters. As far as the background of those companies is concerned, it concerns the entire authorisation procedure, and I said that under the law, the Economic Commission is acting and can address a question to the Economic Commission, asking for information about it, it is your right to represent it. I urge you to make this request for information if you are aware of any specific matter and I trust that the Economic Committee will provide the information at its every request. As regards the security of Hungary, I would like to reassure you that the Hungarian authorities are doing their best to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-134	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question:. We are no longer in debt to Brussels! Can Hungary expect more favourable credit rating ratings due to the repayment of EU-IMF loans? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is a well-known and joyful fact for all of us that the Hungarian State fully repaid the last tranche of EUR 1.5 billion from the European Commission in 2008 by the Gyurcsány government. With this step, Hungary has repaid the entire IMF-EU loan package of some EUR 14,3 billion, which is indeed a serious achievement and a clear success story for all Hungarians. We are now well aware that the 2008 IMF-EU loan package was the result of poor economic policy decisions in previous years. While the other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have achieved 6-8 percent annual economic growth in these years, Hungary is unfortunately in a state of bankruptcy. This fact is also supported by the fact that, while, at the time of the 2002 government change, the ratio of government debt to GDP was 53 per cent, the same indicator indicated 85 per cent by 2010. We can also remember that in 2011, the structure of the public debt was extremely negative, as 70 percent of it was in the hands of foreigners and the foreign exchange debt ratio was 50 percent. On the other hand, the foreign exchange debt ratio has now decreased to 35 percent, domestic funding has improved significantly, while the newly created Hungarian retail savings are represented by 50 percent of the government debt. It is also clear that the economic policy of recent years has led to positive changes. In 2013, growth in the economy took place and from 2010 there were also positive changes in public finances. As a result, in the summer of 2013, the country was removed from the European Union's so-called excessive deficit procedure, and the IMF loan was fully repaid by the country in the same summer. At this point, I would also like to highlight and thank you for the fact that the analysis and comments prepared by the OECD in recent years, free of political motivation, have provided significant guidance and serious professional assistance to Hungarian economic policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: can Hungary expect more favourable credit rating ratings due to the repayment of EU-IMF loans? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-136	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-04-18-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We really need to recall the times that were the dark black days of Hungarian economic policy and financial policy, when the country became essentially unfunded as a result of the decisions of socialist governance and, in essence, it was unconditional surrender to the IMF loan. At the time, of course, no one thought that in 2010, with the establishment of the Fidesz-KDNP government, there would be an incredible economic turnaround in the country, and the government would be able to repay the EUR 8.8 billion loan to the IMF as early as 2013; this was due to the government's announcement in its government policy, in the government programme, that the increase in government debt should be stopped, loans from abroad should be repaid as quickly as possible, and the structure of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state and Hungary's foreign currency exposure should be reduced. Of course, this would not have been achieved, as you have said, if the performance of the Hungarian economy had not increased, if the Hungarian people, the Hungarian businesses had not added their own work, they would not have produced added value, from which we could repay this incredible amount of credit, which the Socialist Government has taken. And we have now come to the point that on 6 April, the European Union credited the last instalment of 1.5 billion euros, and that is to say, we have been completely freed from this credit that socialist governments took on in 2008. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-04-18-139	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply, of course I accept it, but I think it is important to add that the improvement in the structure of public debt has also had positive consequences for investor confidence. This was also well demonstrated by the evolution of the CDS spreads, these increases went through a significant decline, since the CDS prices of Hungarian sovereign debt showed around 400-600 basis points during the crisis - today this value has decreased to 150-160 basis points. We also know that last year's planned general government deficit was around 2.4 percent in proportion to GDP, while the actual deficit last year reached only 1.9 percent. In view of the results achieved, market players already consider Hungary's economic performance to be better than large international credit rating agencies, and due to the constantly improving macroeconomic indicators, we may well hope that the fact that the loan will be repaid will finally be assessed by these large international credit rating agencies and that they will give Hungary the higher classification in which so many of us rightly hope. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-140	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor. [[13.50]]
u2016-04-18-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the three credit rating agencies unfortunately took Hungary out of the category recommended for investment in 2011 as a result of the economic policy before 2010, and started back in 2012 and 2014 respectively, and gave positive signals about the country's economic condition, the credit rating. We have good hope, as you have mentioned, that this year all three credit rating agencies, Moody. s., Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings will also change this classification, and Hungary will return to the category recommended for investment. This also indicates that the government's economic policy remains on the right track, is on the right track and remains on the right track, and this will now be recognised and partly recognised not only by domestic investors and businesses but also by their foreign credit rating agencies. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-142	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, vice-president of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will he be president of the review committee of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee again? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice-President, if you will accept the person of the response. [[Dr. István Hiller: Yes, Mr. President.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-04-18-143	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. I'm asking you and the Ministry about a seemingly less prominent, but professionally very important matter. In the field of Hungarian higher education, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is a very important body and organization, there is no higher education course that could function without the consent or consent of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. There is no department, faculty, institute, institution that does not require the opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. This Accreditation Committee has a review committee, which should, as appropriate, take a position on issues referred to it by law, with respect to prestigious professors under the leadership of the President. The president is a significant professor, a person defining Hungarian scientific life, a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, who resigned on 3 February. He did so because he saw the way things were going around the MAB and the review committee, and it happened that the decision of the authorities would be overwritten without any justification by the Ministry, and it would be professionally unacceptable to him in his own authority. So he resigned. Thus, since the board has not been president since then, it does not work, and consequently it cannot be turned to, and consequently there is an army of issues in Hungarian higher education; neither forward nor backward. I would like to ask you when you will be a re-appointed member, chairman of the review committee in the case of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. Secretary of State, I'm asking.
u2016-04-18-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Sometimes a word is very important, and I see that we have different information in one word. Indeed, the President indicated his intention to resign, but his dismissal has not yet taken place, because his dismissal will take place when his successor is appointed. This decision will be published in the Hungarian Gazette, so everyone will see exactly which day it will take place, so the task will continue to be carried out. As long as the new President is not appointed, the old President will carry out his task, thereby continuing to function and work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-146	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor back to Vice President István Hiller. Here you go.
u2016-04-18-147	Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that since I announced in writing my immediate intention of questioning the resignation of the chairman of the review committee, the less fortunate but very sad case has occurred since then that the president of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee has resigned. So slowly we can choose in our discussion, in our questions and answers, whose resignation I am asking, because, for similar reasons in recent days, not only the review committee, but also the prestigious international authority of the Accreditation Committee, which you have nominated, has resigned. And even though, for an international conference, the panel of organisations such as the MAB is meeting here in Budapest, it does not consider this to have happened until the end of this meeting, it has resigned. Consequently, I would like to ask for a moment's answer on how the Ministry appreciates this if, in addition to the Chairman of the Review Committee, the Chair of the Accreditation Committee has resigned. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2016-04-18-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can say the same thing to you, honourable Member, that we will strive to keep the work going, that no procedure of any kind should stop, that everyone should do their job until the appointment of their new successor, and that we hope that this transition will be carried out smoothly, and that in no case, which is now ongoing, this will result in a substantial delay in time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-150	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Did we really have to wait? It's an address. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, With my immediate question, I would like to make it easier for you, and I would like to say a few things that you should not mention in your reply, but that you should answer specific questions. We are not curious about the beneficial consequences of the tax relief, we are not curious about the continuous substitution, we are curious about the specific answers, I, my faction, a lot of opposition representatives and the sector itself. On 20 April, the strike committee of social sector workers announced a strike. Three demands were made. One is the 20% wage increase, the other is the interest-sharing negotiations before the sector comes into force, and inter-work breaks are part of working time. These requests are not too big, especially if we consider that we are experiencing even a step backwards compared to their original claims, because they originally wanted a pay table similar to the health pay table to be introduced in the social sector, and if we consider that they currently earn 23 percent more on average in the health sector than in the social sector, then I think they have taken the first step. You will take the next step, the next step that has been promised for so long: the introduction of a social career model. You could say they don't ask for much. The only thing they ask for is the one thing they ask to survive without having to change their careers, try their luck in another sector, or flee abroad, whether they are freight loaders or any other worker in any Western European country, regardless of their qualifications. They do not ask for much: they want to stay alive, work, and maintain the social care system with their great expertise. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What I am not surprised is that you do not want to hear about the tax breaks, the various allowances, the sectoral wage bonus or the wage supplement, because they were all steps within the walls of Parliament that Jobbik's faction did not support. However, for many people, 14-16 or 30 thousand forints, which, whether they were paid as a replacement or as a supplement, were a significant step forward. I do not wonder if you are reluctant to hear your opposition in this regard within the walls of this House. As far as the demands are concerned, honourable Member, as regards the negotiations, if you were to be informed, I think you will be informed, but you will only be silent on purpose, but the next round of negotiations will be on Monday. On behalf of the Government, Deputy State Secretary Nitrai led the government negotiating delegation, and on the other hand, trade unions took part in these negotiations. So it has been continuous in the previous months, I can say, even in the previous year, the dialogue and the series of negotiations. [[14.00]] Trade unions have changed their demands last week. This legally means that a new set of negotiations must be started by assigning new negotiators. I see that they don't understand this part that way, even though there is a new line of demands, they don't want to start a new set of negotiations. We, according to the strike law, will, of course, appoint a negotiator who will have to sit down with the unions and then have any possibility of warning or any other strike. As far as we're concerned, the strike bill doesn't allow me to announce it one week, and I'm on strike the next week. With regard to the issue of wage increases: we will start and continue a broad consultation in the coming weeks, examining long-term issues in both the health sector and the social sphere, in which we would also like to discuss internal rates of wage increases that could be financed from this additional resource with the representatives of trade unions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-154	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-18-155	Since the talks have been going on, it's a good topic, and it's also a good topic of how long the government has been promising to introduce a social career model. I find it rather unfair that, after the strike committee has given in, the trade unions have allowed me to step back half a step, and then they get the government to take advantage of it and start threatening them immediately that their strike is wrong and retaliation is expected if the strike does come into effect. By the way, according to the Curia's resolution, the strike on the 20th isn't illegal, so it's probably going to be held. The other is that the promise goes on, but when it comes to publicising the press, we hear once again from the Secretary of State that they can expect a raise in the field of education and health, even this year, but he has not even mentioned social workers in half a sentence. He no longer promises to introduce a social career model. Stop delaying that date, and even introduce it this year. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-157	Thank you very much for the floor. And I have no doubt, honourable Member, that just as the previous two wage increases were not supported by Jobbik's faction here in Parliament, contrary to the words, they would not vote for this either. Some people like to stir up tension, stir up the mood, and some people believe in negotiations. We are the latter, because the negotiations have also brought the previous two wage increases, the result, and this would not be any different now. We said that in the 2017 budget for next year, everyone could make another move forward. There is, of course, a possibility of further progress for those working in the social sphere. We need to start negotiations to see what we can achieve in the 2017 budget until the budget is adopted. And we have also made it clear that the condition or work before the introduction of the career, which must be done, is the transformation, design of the permanent maintenance structure, and then the career can take effect. In the meantime, however, we do not say that they will be able to feel some kind of financial additional recognition, but that both with the sectoral wage bonus and with the addition of this, and with the budget for next year, the workers in this sphere can also move forward.
u2016-04-18-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What proposals will be launched this year in the framework of the Erzsébet programme? It's an address. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-18-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-04-18-160	Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Parliament adopted the Act on the Erzsébet programme on 6 July 2012. With the implementation of the programme, Hungary's Government has set itself the goal of providing a discount holiday and a relaxing opportunity within the framework of the social holiday scheme. Over the past few years, the programme has become a true, recognised and successful model of social solidarity and responsibility across Europe, as the biggest holiday and camping programme of the last two and a half decades has been established in Hungary with social cooperation and the involvement of budgetary resources. The Erzsébet programme has provided more than 600 thousand people, more than 300 thousand of whom have been given vacation and recreation opportunities. The programme pays particular attention to children, large families, people with disabilities and pensioners. In the Erzsébet camps, children from both motherland and abroad have the possibility of a meaningful holiday, while the day-care Erzsébet camps offer a solution for a meaningful holiday. Dear Secretary of State, With the programmes that have been implemented so far, we can say that the Erzsébet programme is an extremely successful initiative. I therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State what opportunities the programme offers this year and what we can expect in the future with regard to the Erzsébet programme. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-18-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Erzsébet programme, launched in 2012, is indeed a very modern, new form of social care, in which we managed to launch a social holiday programme from the distribution results of the Erzsébet vouchers, not through direct budgetary resources, not by taking or transferring any resources from others, but by involving a new source, a source that enriched the profits of three French companies in the previous years. They took this money out of the country, we kept it in the country, and even used it for social child relief and other purposes. Its main priorities were the establishment of children's camps, support for large families, support for the holiday of people with disabilities, support for the holiday of pensioners and the management of the spa, and also the years when law enforcement workers and disaster workers also received special recognition. Since 2015, not only the distribution result, i.e. not only the amount resulting from the turnover of Elizabeth's vouchers, but also the budgetary support provided to the Erzsébet programme, this very new social programme. If we look at the overall number of people who benefited from the discount, we see that there are 600 thousand people and that this budget has not been allocated to anyone, but the distribution result has created the cover for this. It had large families, disabled people and pensioners. This year, 90,000 of them applied to the Erzsébet camps this year. The total of 600,000 people, who had been beneficiaries of the Elizabeth programme so far, 50 percent, 300,000 had children who could spend their holidays in Elizabeth camps. There was a daycare camp, a theme camp. This year you can choose from 60 types of writings, and about 50,000 children can receive support from them, while in daycare camps another 100,000 children can have a meaningful summer holiday. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-164	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-18-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I think it is safe to say that in Europe the social holiday programme that we have implemented in Hungary is unprecedented, the Elizabeth programme. Of course, we did not create it to compete with Europe, but we created it to create a social programme in Hungary, in Hungarian society that helps these families and children. It is not by accident that we say that we do not want to build a market economy, but a social market economy, and I think that this programme also supports the need to create, strengthen, increase, help and improve a social market economy. KDNP has already supported the implementation of this programme and we are asking the Government to continue to assist and support this programme by all means. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-18-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2016-04-18-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, That the government is committed to maintaining social recreation is no better proof than that recently, a few weeks ago, the government decided to renovate the Zánka and the Fonyódliget camp, precisely so that we could receive students who, we know well, had seen the Balaton for the first time in their lives, and there were many who had never been on holiday, never in the other part of the country. Their situation would be greatly improved by this social holiday programme. In addition, it is sad to see that the value of this social achievement, progress and modern instrument has not been estimated by the European Union so much that it considers it important to maintain it. Three French companies have worked hard to attack this social system to make it a profit-interested system, not for community interest, but for private interest. The European Union's institutional system was unable to withstand this pressure, and the Luxembourg court ruled against this system. [[14.10]] However, we intend to maintain it, even if the Brussels judgment prevented the further implementation of this card system and the further implementation of the electronic voucher system, this success story must continue from budgetary sources in Hungary for hundreds of thousands of people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-168	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Dudes, parties, casinos? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-04-18-169	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not accept the person of the responder, and in a point of order I will explain why at the end of the immediates.
u2016-04-18-170	Thank you. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Do government offices sleep through the destruction of Lake Balaton? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister personally for an answer.
u2016-04-18-171	I'll take it.
u2016-04-18-172	Yes, I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-18-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The honourable representatives of the government and the Member of the KDNP spoke a lot about the holiday on the shore of Lake Balaton. It is a pity that they did not add that if their government continues to do so, sooner or later, Balaton will not be there, in which it will be possible to bathe and bathe anyone, or at least not in the same quality as we know and love Lake Balaton. In 2012, while the coast of Lelle was destroyed by mudification caused by the construction of a yacht port, the same is happening in the region of Balatonmáriafürdő and Balatonfenyves, for the same reason. There were the flow experts, they said in advance that if a pier half a kilometer long was built into the water, the water would not flow as it should, the whole beach would be muddy, practically, there the western basin of Lake Balaton could be ruined as it is. Despite the high water level of the lake, Mary's bath is already drowning in the mud, and the water business seems to have no idea how to handle this situation. Neither the pier is built nor the proper disposal of the mud to be removed from the beach has been solved. I've filed a number of charges on this. The lesson of the case is absolutely clear, on the one hand, we have to make laws that work, two, the laws have to be respected, three, we have to enforce the construction and environmental regulations, and expert opinions have to be incorporated into the decision-making process so that Balaton does not have to be in such a situation for the many times now. However, at present, this minimum rule of law does not apply at all at Lake Balaton, in practice, investors' fever dreams pass through the government's completely deprived authority system of independence, and the law-breaking decisions result in private capital benefiting from the transactions, and society can pay the costs. Dear Secretary of State, Please report on the concrete steps taken by the state to protect the environment and nature so that at Lake Balaton only something can be built that is in line with existing legislation, such as the Balaton Law and sustainability aspects. How does the wallet guarantee the rapid removal of the seemingly damaging structures built in violation of the law from the vicinity of Lake Balaton?
u2016-04-18-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, The truth is, it's unique that you can't use a motorboat on Lake Balaton. The objective of protecting the environment is to allow sailing boats to operate instead of boating, which, by the way, gives the charm, the beauty of the lake itself. I must say to you that a number of investigations justify and justify the fact that neither the environmental organisations nor the offices have found anything wrong with it, no one has protected it, no one has appealed for the entire investment that has been made in this. I'll tell you in a row what measures have been taken to make you see that everything has been done with the utmost professionalism. The authorisation of the sailing port started in November 2013. The competent environmental inspectorate has published a notice in his office, through his website and through the central system. At the same time, the notice, the application and the annexes were sent to the notary of the municipality of Balatonfenyves for public announcement in the public area and in the local manner. No comments were received from the public concerned. The environmental civil society organisations involved in the procedure were notified by the supervisory authority by electronic means, but no civil society organisation has notified its intention to participate in the environmental procedure. In its decision to close the procedure, the Supervisory Board concluded that the implementation of the planned activity did not have a significant environmental impact on the individual environmental elements or their system, and that therefore the conduct of an environmental impact assessment procedure was not justified. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2016-04-18-177	Dear Secretary of State, I don't understand how the speedboats got here, I didn't ask you, and charm and beauty wouldn't think of it if you went down to the beach in Balatonfenyves and looked at the monstrum they put there. Dear Secretary of State, It's just not true what you're saying. So I'm not on the government, I'm not on your wallet, and yet I've got an expert opinion in black and white describing the opinion of the flow expert that there's no way to build a facility like this on this beach, that's one of them. And the other, I can't help it if you think it's legitimate, but I strongly dispute that this is the fact that the local construction code will replace, for example, the Balaton Act, when the Balaton Act clearly states certain things, for example, that you cannot narrow down the medre, you cannot build all kinds of monstrums on the beach. What you have to see here is that they're facing the Balaton law, which is why I reported it, because it's a national scandal, and it's not just because there's a pier, it's because there's a pier there that could ruin the entire western basin of Lake Balaton. The Balaton can make it inappropriate for us all to bathe in it, for example, the children camping there [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] families, everyone [[The president's ringing again.]] It's because some people want to land their yacht on a pier half a kilometer long. Mr. Secretary, answer me, please, what does the wallet say?
u2016-04-18-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your understanding. Secretary of State, you have the floor for rejoinder.
u2016-04-18-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congresswoman, The fact is that no appeal was received against the decision and thus it became legally binding on 5 September 2014. In its decision to close the procedure, the Supervisory Board concluded that the implementation of the planned activity would have no significant environmental impact on the individual environmental elements or their system, so that an environmental impact assessment procedure was not justified and that the planned activity was not subject to a single environmental authorisation and that prior to the start of the activity, a water law permit and a shipping authorisation should be obtained. I would like to inform Congresswoman that we have no knowledge of any specific investment that would have an adverse effect on the environmental status of Lake Balaton. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] Congressman says he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-181	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy announced this weekend, on the night of the professions, that our senior countrymen could expect a 0.9 percent pension increase next year. I'm guessing he called it in at night because his face would have been burned off during the day. We see in the propaganda every day that Hungary is performing better, and we also see that, as a result of better performance, the rate of the minimum old-age pension has not increased by a naughty penny for the sixth year, while we made two such proposals last year, both voted down by the Fidesz majority in committee and Parliament. He says that Hungary is performing better, but in this better-performing publication he is dealing with pensions on the side of the minimum wage, but he does not mention that this year there was only a 1.6 percent increase in pensions, he does not mention that it was voted down twice, as I mentioned, to raise the minimum retirement pension to HUF 50,000, and he does not mention that nearly 200,000 people have already been fully discharged from the pension system, and he does not talk about the fact that every day the invalids are being humiliated. If Hungary is doing better, tell me, Mr. Secretary, why is it that hundreds of thousands of our old countrymen are still miserable? If Hungary is doing better, tell me, Mr Secretary, why is it that hundreds of thousands of elderly people cannot properly heat their homes; and why is it that hundreds of people, even thousands of older people, are lining up for a day's hot food? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[14.20]]
u2016-04-18-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-04-18-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz government has a clear objective of preserving the real value of the pension, we do not promise unnecessarily, we do not raise pensions from non-existent economic growth, but we say that we will gradually preserve and protect the value of pensions. Take a look, during the Fidesz government's activities, this government target has been achieved every year. Not at your time, since, under socialist governments, about half of the real value of pensions has been reduced in time. While it grew in one year, it decreased in the next year, overall governance was completed over the course of eight years with a balance of about zero. So when you stand up here and criticize the Fidesz government for your pension policy, I think there is no basis for this, because you took away the 13th month pension, thereby significantly reducing pension benefits for pensioners. While pensions increased by 21.1 percent during the Fidesz administration, the real value of this is about 8.8 percent, which compensates for the 13th month pension you have taken. But remember that other measures have been taken for pensioners. I would like to mention the decision to reduce the costs and the extent to which the pension savings have been significant for the pensioners concerned, and the VAT reduction has a particular impact on pensioners, since they buy more basic food. This will not happen differently in 2017. We will also preserve the real value of pensions in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-18-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-18-185	Thank you very much. I do not know, Mr Secretary, how the reduction of the VAT on the Internet will affect older people, since older people are typically not interneted; how the possible reduction of VAT on restaurant services will affect them, since old people typically do not eat in restaurants; and they are not excited about the monthly sale of plasma TVs, LCD TVs or tablets. However, the 0.9 percent, if I look at the stock statistics immediately, in the case of the spouse's allowance, when the pensioner receives a pension increase of HUF 130 next year, will have an increase of HUF 300 in disability benefits, HUF 200 in accident benefits and HUF 340 in orphanage, where they will receive it as their main care. I think every figure speaks for itself. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-18-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. In return, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-18-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You do agree that the VAT on pigmeat, the VAT reduction on poultrymeat, the VAT reduction on eggs or possibly the VAT reduction on milk, dairy products will affect the pension basket. But let's see how discredited your question is. You were State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour between 2008 and 10. This is how pension increases were made this year. In 2008 in real terms 0.4 per cent, in 2009 minus 6.5 per cent [[Lajos Korózs: It was a global economic crisis, regardless of us.]] And in 2010, minus 2.8 percent. You are the State Secretary during which the real value of pensions in Hungary has fallen to the greatest extent. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] And you stand up here. Your question is discredited, your speech is discredited, and I think the skin should come from your image, not Mihály Varga's, because what you did then is unsuitable. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-18-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister: the government control of the offshore companies, with no consequences. Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary for his response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of György Szilágyi:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2016-04-18-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, Viktor Orbán replied to my immediate question about offshore organizations by examining 44,000 companies carefully. You didn't mention that this was done to force Jobbik, and that out of these 44,000 companies, you found 260 companies that supported an opaque organization from an EU source and published this. However, it is shocking that the screening has been carried out in vain, despite the publication, and even now the Prime Minister refers to this work as a symbol of his commitment to abuse, because the Fidesz fraction, the leaders of each background institution, do not care who you say is opaque, so you cannot legally sign with them. Let's take an example of this 260 list. Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Kft., 2009. ANNEX II To date, it has been backed by a Luxembourg company with a completely unknown ownership structure. How can this company thrive in orders despite the investigation and publication? To put it simply, the background institution of the EMMI, the Institute of Education Research and Development, has repeatedly invited this company in a non-publishing procedure and concluded a contract with it. István Türr Institute of Training and Research: involved him in HUF 136 million work. Chamber of Agriculture: Balázs Győrffy chaired two contracts, one of which was HUF 238 million. But I can tell you, University of Debrecen, Fertő-Hanság National Park, Educatio. Educatio Social Service Provider Nonprofit Kft. 1 billion HUF 630 million in work and order included this Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Kft. on 15 October 2014, so six months after you declared him an offshore company. So I ask you, is this the fight against the offshore knights that the Prime Minister is so proud of? So I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's opinion as to why and how such cases may continue to occur when you are offshore companies [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're making public money, and so impertinent. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Here's to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-191	Honourable Congressman, I respect your opinion that the government would do certain things to force Jobbik, but let me say that I do. As regards the public, public procurement, in Hungary, unlike previous practice, it is now completely public about who launches public procurement and who wins contracts. Public procurement candidates must disclose their ownership background. That wasn't the case before. In the pre-2010 period, opaque ownership backgrounds could start and win public procurement. I would also like to tell you that the new public procurement law is stricter than ever before, and that the introduction of online cash registers is also a means of whitening the economy. There is another aspect of company transparency. I'd like to refer to the Panamanian offshore case. In this connection, allow me to say that the Prime Minister has asked not only the Minister of the Interior but also the Ministry of National Economy to investigate the offshore strands individually. There's already been a task force in the Ministry of Interior. Successful work in this area also needs countries with low tax rates to share information with other EU Member States. The government's aim is to ensure greater transparency in this area. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-18-192	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-04-18-193	Mr. Secretary, I feel you're having trouble understanding texts. That's not what I asked. I'll tell you this: if everything from the Public Finance Act to the Fundamental Law prohibits you from entering into contracts with offshore companies, you will name a company that you say is offshore with an opaque ownership structure, then how will you continue to conclude contracts worth billions of forints? That's the question. So if it's illegal to sign a contract with such a company, and you say it's offshore, then how do you conclude this contract? And if you're talking about coercion, Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you what the coercion was. The fact that you made a law from January 1, 2012 that couldn't give offshore companies EU funds, and then we looked at their National Development Agency for six months and gave 30 billion forints to offshore companies in six months, so they acted illegally again there. When we discovered this case, you had no choice but to terminate the National Development Agency, to remove from the Minister the rights with which you managed these funds, and to launch an investigation into 44,000 companies. It was the coercion that we discovered these cases. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[14.30]]
u2016-04-18-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-195	Despite personalism, let me repeat that, contrary to previous practice, everything in Hungary [[György Szilágyi: This is today's practice.]] a public procurement company had to reveal its ownership background. At the same time, it is strange that Jobbik calls for transparency. [[György Szilágyi: Here comes Béla Kovács.]] I won't mention Béla Kovács. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm not mentioning it because it's not me, it's a country that's waiting for an honest answer. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] But did you urge an investigation when it was discovered that most of the spending on the Jobbik fraction was going to a single group of companies? [[György Szilágyi: Where are the declarations of assets? Family property statements?]] Have you spoken about this matter to your constituents? Did you clarify that question? [[György Szilágyi: Where is the property statement?]] did you clarify the relationship between the better Members and certain company cemeteries? [[András Tállai: What are you nervous about? What are you so nervous about?]] If you have not clarified [[Dr. András Schiffer: Settlement Bonds!]] then any right-wing claim demanding transparency is crooked. The public begins primarily at home in your case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-18-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Varju, Member of the Council and independent Member of the European Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting address on the subject of the last week's events. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A multitude of protesting people on the street, an immense mass of people living in poverty, thousands of doctors and workers leaving Hungary, and the debt of hospitals again reaches 50 billion according to the records of the Hungarian Treasury. In the meantime, we must see that there is corruption in health care. At the same time, the Hungarian Competition Authority has resigned to companies that have recently started in public procurements for billions of EU funds and subsidies, and have been winners here. In the course of the case, it seems that every statement in the corruption report on Hungary is almost exactly true. Typically, only one company started in the application issued by the Ministry of Development, typically not the company that actually completed the delivery. These are a few intermediate companies, which, by the way, made hundreds of millions of forints in profits. And each purchase, where X-ray equipment was normally purchased, was purchased or transported at an additional price of about one-and-a-half times. By the way, the European Union has already made a formal statement in 2015. Thus, it is clear that there is no reliability of the procedural system for certifying serious payments, there are shortcomings, no correction measures have been taken or have not been taken in the control system. Thus, the system operated by the government is neither transparent nor efficient nor reliable. So don't be surprised if, after the corruption-suspected X-ray acquisition case, the Hungarian Competition Authority, which has already launched the investigation... - this should then also be examined by EU organisations. I'm afraid the steps of the Economic Competition Authority are just a front to cover up all this ugliness and ugliness. We believe that the European authorities will also come because, after what has been said or happened in the educational matter, the funds will also be stolen from health care by companies close to Fidesz that specialize in development applications. For this reason, János Lázár has to consider answering questions, and for example, how he could allow only one candidate to run for hundreds of millions of forints of applications and, in essence, make hundreds of millions of dollars in profit with its price drive. Contrary to the news, it is not a HUF 9 billion framework that was stolen here, but it is HUF 34.3 billion that was available, but the tender notice and its results were not dared to be published, so I also expect the Ministry to publish and present this. Because the specifics that are currently in our possession, which show that, by the way, the equipment available at HUF 40 million was charged and paid to the Ministry of Development at a price of HUF 70-150 million, have caused damage or a profit for these few companies, which could have resulted in much more machines being purchased. This could be much shorter than the line-up list, which is missing from health care. So people are missing, and the equipment is missing from hospitals, either in bandages or in the form of medicines that can serve people. This would certainly not happen in many Hungary, because as a result of the Fidesz decisions, you are stealing development resources from health care. We expect all of this to be accounted for after the tests have been carried out. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-18-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "V." - Summary of the Ángyán reports. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I see that Mr. Secretary has managed to stay inside, so I hope that I can get an answer in the end. I would like to start from the most recent figures, as they clearly show that the government does not, by the way, have a thank-you policy on rural development and agriculture with what it proclaims in words. We have not yet heard the 2015 figures here, within the walls of the House, about agricultural subsidies. Most of the support was taken by the companies of Tamás Leisztinger, which is connected to MSZP, but Lőrinc Mészáros is also coming up hard, although he has not yet been included. This is about the fact that the Hungarian state paid HUF 771 billion in agricultural subsidies, roughly 80 percent of which is over HUF 600 billion of EU funds, and roughly 40 percent and 38.7 percent of the subsidies were paid as area subsidies. Most of this 771 billion, on the other hand, landed in a very, very narrow circle with very few people. Even though the new rules were introduced in 2015, which was promised to change the trend now, and finally the local family farmers finally get most of the resources, it didn't change anything. In fact, in some respects, the situation has even deteriorated. No one has been able to get a meaningful answer to this question from the Hungarian people, or 90% of the people who have been eliminated, how can a government that allegedly supports small and medium-sized economies be expected to receive 76 percent of the subsidies, i.e. HUF 587 billion, to the top 10 percent of the beneficiaries. This is a brutal imbalance that has not been approached in the worst anti-rural MSZP-SZDSZ governments. It is not, therefore, that there has been any substantial change, only a slight shift in the direction of capital interests. But the government doesn't talk about it that openly anymore. Although it seems that Tamás Leisztinger may have his last big year, as István Garancsi, a businessman close to Fidesz, has acquired his previously rented, formerly state-owned land, and, as it turned out from the news, the businessman near Fidesz is increasingly infiltrating his companies and gaining more influence. So this could be, say, a joyful news if we were to say that such a serious capital interest would be reduced. Unfortunately, it is not the fact that this amount would be transferred to Hungarian farmers both in terms of land and subsidies, but it is clear that it will be transferred to the business community of István Garancsi, which has already been mentioned, so we are witnesses of a kind of reorganization here in everyday life that is not in the interest of family farmers at all. [[14.40]] Sándor Csányi's interests earned 4.5 billion, and KITE Zrt., which he recently acquired, is not even included in this, and this will certainly look good on his revenues next year. As I said, Lőrinc Mészáros is not one of the biggest ones yet, but the dog-watcher of the Prime Minister is performing very nicely on this ladder, as Lőrinc Mészáros has increased his agricultural income by 65 percent, and this does not even include the terrible amount of state land that was acquired this year for approximately HUF 2 billion. I know, of course, this was partly purchased by his family, and since Jobbik's proposal was rejected, and there is no family compatibility in Hungary today, and there is nothing on paper for relatives to do with him, it would certainly not be appropriate for me to mention this, but allow me to do so. So there's a good chance that next year, he'll be among the greatest. All these facts, Mr Secretary of State, are the dry facts that show that you have created a country against your communication, where there is no such thing as helping local farmers. How is it possible that what we call support, what we call public money, which is supposed to serve the common good, will help those who are otherwise more difficult to compete in market conditions, or in the absence of land size, or for other reasons, to try to bring them up on the map, and to create a kind of agriculture and countryside through, say, a cooperative system, thinking in a European model, taking into account the aspects of a competitive, at the same time quality rural life? How is it that you have said these things in your plans, but in practice, these are the brutal numbers, where 76 percent of the aid is obtained by the top 10 percent according to your decision? That's what I'm looking for. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, With regard to the changes, I regret that you underestimate the fact that we have tried to do as an effort to get these EU funds to as many farmers as possible and to get as many family farmers as possible, but otherwise you have rightly said that there is a normative payment of these support parts, which corresponds to the area ratio. So if I have a hundred hectares of land, then a hundred hectares of land is eligible for area aid, if I have a thousand hectares of land, then a thousand hectares of land is eligible for area aid. The government was able to do one thing in this regard, given that it is not state money, but part of EU funds, that we said that no area payments above 1200 hectares should be granted on a normative basis, or that some exceptions could amount to up to 1800 hectares of such aid. The other thing we were able to do is that in the previous land traffic law, you probably know that 2500 hectares was the property maximum that a farmer or a plant could use if I could use this concept in total. Plus, there were a lot of loopholes, there were 2,500 acres open from above. This has now been limited to 1,200 hectares in livestock or seed production to a maximum of 1800 hectares. So if you look at the legislation - because you say the level of action and the level of reality - I think that the legislation is, after all, the level of action. In the Land Traffic Act, it is clear what change it meant, and it is also clear in the aid scheme what changes it meant. For area payments, I would like to emphasise this once again, it is not the government's decision to distribute it, it is the support of the European Union, which can be used by farmers in a framework defined by the European Union. Despite everything, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing the number and proportion of large plants in the Hungarian agricultural economy to 20 percent from the current 50 percent. The measures I have just told you are also in line with this goal. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you mentioned the land to the farmers here! A program or winners, too. You always take a few examples from which you try to draw general conclusions. This obviously carries a lot of subjective content, but what I'm saying is, let's go to objective numbers. Still, I think it's a great news story that more than 10 500 customers have bought state land. This is also part of your programme or rural development strategy, and we would like you to buy as many family farms as possible. I think it's definitely an advantage. If you look at the results of the lease applications, you should also see that 80 percent of family farms, natural persons have won, and only 20 percent have won state land plants or even legal entities, and here we do not even open up that we are talking about a large plant or a small plant. He also mentioned family reconciliation as one of Jobbik's suggestions. I can tell you that this can be tried, but in other areas of life, or in the case of an example of the European Union, this is not fashionable in the legal system of the European Union. I have told you several times that the family community of love and the community of property - and we are talking about a very close relationship, or husband and wife at best - are not even clear whether the interests of property are the same or not. And you ask us to include a brother, a child, a relative living in a separate household or a schoolmate [[István Apáti intervenes.]] And that's how it's formed... Just relax, because that's how the interests you're always talking about develop. We're talking about such elusive interests that you're willing to add up. I'd like to make a point of interest. Obviously, we live in Hungary, we know the proportion of religious affiliation, and I would bet on a great deal that Christian people are among the winners, like non-Christians. [[István Apáti: Don't be Jewish!]] One can conclude from this that a circle of interests wins, a circle of Christian interests. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I wouldn't see much point in making such a comparison. I'd like to tell you that instead of attacking him, you'd rather support the land for the farmers. At the third pace, we are starting to sell 60,000 hectares of state land in over 3,200 estates, and I very much hope that up to 15,000 people will be able to climb all the number of land buyers, just as Jobbik's support will climb below 15 percent. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2016-04-18-202	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting address with the proud title of Ferenc Kresznerics. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, As a result of his modestness, they ignored him even more when he died. And today they talk about Verseghy and Kazinczy, Fogarasi and Ballagi, and they only reaped where Kresznerics plowed the unbroken leap with hard work. That's how they talked about Ferenc Kresznerics. 2016 gives us the opportunity to prove that we are worthy guardians and admirers of the great oeuvre of the scientist's bishop, academic and dictionary writer. This year we remember the 250th anniversary of his birth. The programmes implemented in this context show that Vas County is still proud of the scientist from this land. Dear House, Allow me to present, on this occasion, the life path of Ferenc Kresznerics here in the house of the country. He was born in Ivan, and his parents were Professor and notary Ádám Kresznerics, and his mother was Krisztina Lóránth of noble descent. From 1777 he studied grammatical classes at the high school in Szombathely. From 1780 he continued his studies in Sopron. In 1785 he came to Bratislava as a small-seminarist, where he studied and graduated from religion and philosophy. In addition to his linguistic interest, he had already shown his interest in science and mathematics. In 1790 he was consecrated as a priest by János Szily, the first bishop of Szombathely. Then Nádasdra, then Salomvár, became a chaplain. A few months later, he became his native village minister and then Chaplain Zalaegerszeg. In 1793, János Szily founded the Lyceum in Szombathely, leaving his mathematical cathedral to Kresznerics, who also taught architecture and dynamics in addition to mathematics. In 1794 he obtained a PhD in philosophy, and in 1803 he prepared a complete inventory of the Roman antiques of the museum in Szombathely. Until the spring of 1812 he was a highly respected teacher of the Lyceum. It is interesting that between 1806-1808 Count István Széchenyi was also a student of the Institute, whom he himself taught. [[14.50]] From 1812 he became parish priest of the village of Ság, now belonging to Celldömölk. He died here in 1832. It rests in the Catholic cemetery of the Lower Land, and its tomb is declared part of the National Graveyard by the National Memorial and Cemetery Committee. Dear Parliament, Kresznerics' linguistics scientific activity is rich and has a great heritage. As a student, he became a lover of books and probably began to write his book diary to encourage his teachers, which he led several or less regularly to his death. The manuscript, sometimes containing biographical data, was later used as a repository for his dictionaries, which account for his readings and his literatorial connections. When he was young, he was interested in foreign languages. He knew German, Latin, Italian, French, Greek and Hebrew. When he was a priest, he wrote Greek-translated Italian grammar, and in 1790 he compiled the Hungarian grammar that remained in a manuscript. Kresznerics is critical of the majority of previous and contemporary linguistic works in this work. Most of the time, he complained that most of them approached the Hungarian language, instead of describing its nature, on the basis of rules typical of foreign languages. The printing of another German translation of his work was forbidden by the royal censorship. He also dealt with the Eastern languages: besides the Hebrew, he also knew Persian and Turkish languages to compare their grammar rules with Hungarian. After two decades of collection, he started organizing his root dictionary in 1808. This work led to the writing of his main work, the Hungarian dictionary, with its root order and deácsák. It's got 80,000 words in it. In his 50-page introduction to his work, he explains his opinion on the figurative system of Hungarian language. In his own dictionary, he groups terms based on the roots, i.e. the solo lines. After the highlighted word, he collects words created with training and composition into bushes. It also publishes the dialectal or linguistic versions, as well as the phrases and proverbs associated with the term. The first volume was published in 1831 and the second volume in 1832. Dear House, In the days we will inaugurate the bust of Mihály Munkácsy Prize-winning sculptor Attila Diénes in Celldömölk. I trust that, just like this, all events of the Memorial Year will contribute to the transfer of the heritage of Kresznerics to the generations after us. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-18-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, asked to take government action on behalf of children and young people involved in ADHD. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2016-04-18-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to the problem of young people affected by ADHD in the post- Agenda speech. ADHD, i.e. attention-disrupting hyperactivity, is estimated to affect one in 20 children and adolescents all over Europe, but in many cases, due to misunderstanding of symptoms, the disorder is not diagnosed and is therefore not treated at all. It is no exaggeration to say that attention-conscious hyperactivity is one of the most misunderstood and rejected mental health disorders. AdHD, which is not recognised in time or is not treated at all, may have a serious impact on the adult life of those affected. Continued learning difficulties, including school changes, are a front for a failed career in the labour market, future job search and job failure. They're forecasting privacy issues. We also need to talk about the criminal consequences of juveniles. It is not uncommon that young people later cannot integrate into society because of untreated disease and need lasting support. This can lead to serious failures not only for individuals, but also for society as a whole, and even billions of spending. According to the Hungarian Foundation for ADHD, these costs exceed HUF 33 billion per year. This can be prevented if the disorders are recognised as soon as possible and they receive appropriate treatment as soon as possible. Complex pedagogical, therapeutic, medical and social assistance would be needed. It is not enough to deal with ADHD children, it is necessary to offer solutions for their entire family, because for example, the training of the child and the provision of therapy are very difficult. Professionals, civilians, have been knocking on governments' doors for a long time to make progress in the case of young people affected by attention-disturbed hyperactivity. Unfortunately, so far, little tangible results have been achieved, and governments do not address the problem to the extent that this should be taken seriously. The proposals cover a wide range of areas of intervention, starting from the renewal of pedagogical and professional training, through the funding of education, including special education, up to the cooperation of the social institutions. Dear House, It is in our interest to identify the problem of children affected by ADHD as soon as possible and to ensure effective complex treatment on an ongoing basis. Perhaps we have come to the point that the government also believes that the Hungarian school system needs to be renewed to a certain extent. Another measure of the renewal of Hungarian education is how children with special educational needs are treated, how it creates opportunities and opportunities for them. The LMP hopes that government transformations of power and political interests will also focus on those who need the greatest help as soon as possible. Daily education policy issues concern the termination, transformation of the CLIK, the reduction of the burden on teachers and students or the change in the system of teaching supervision. The operational crisis in our education system must be dealt with as soon as possible, but the intervention cannot stop here. In order for Hungarian education to take in the children of ADHD and provide them with the possibility of social ascent. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2016-04-18-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech: let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the Parliament. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of his campaign, entitled "Part Five." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Within the campaign of Jobbik's Youth Group, we have undertaken to present the views of young people from week to week, especially in relation to public education issues, but also in relation to any other issues in which they express their views. We consider it important to show that it is important for them to express their views, and that this should go to the decision-makers. This is now part 5 of my series of speeches, and I will mainly quote opinions from students on public education issues. Ákos sent us this letter: I'm sure so many people have said it before me, but I'll tell you that there's a tremendous amount of teaching material to learn in school in a very short time. I have 39 hours a week, and we can't learn much of the curriculum of these classes. Why? Because it is so difficult to solve tasks that are so brain-intensive, and the tasks are so incomprehensible that they cannot be put into words. I'm speaking for myself here. 'Akos,' says Ákos. Since I'm a football player with four games a week, plus one game, I have less time to study. I get home by 9:00 a day, and I've got time to get my gym clothes ventilated. The next day I get up at 4:40 to get to school, because I'm already due at 7:50. And unfortunately, I'm not alone in this, because a lot of my country friends go to the same school I went to. I have a professional class, engineering, four a week, which, let's face it, is not enough because an hour goes by changing clothes and theory, doing practical work for two hours, and taking notes on a computer an hour, which has nothing to do with our practical class. å Many kinds of objects are necessary for basic education, and I think they are necessary. However, it would be essential to fully reform the education system, as it does not prepare us for everyday things, such as the preparation of a tax return, the way in which basic documents and documents are to be handled..The following suggestion is: a 25-year-old young girl, Nikolett, although she is no longer a student, would like to bring her experiences to Parliament in despair. He writes: "I am a 25-year-old girl, I have a college degree. I don't have a job in Borsod so much that I've been forced into the nearest assembly multi-manufacturer for two shifts, approx. For a hundred thousand forints. A workplace where gypsies with no eight generals are hired to work, who can barely even read and write. I'm asking the Fidest if it's okay. Is this what they think the civil national government is? Is that why the student should study for many, many years? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.00]] Zoltán, recalling his previous years, thus appreciates the current educational situation:. When I was in ninth grade, the curriculum was lighter, I complained that I had many classes a week, but now a year after graduation, knowing the new system by my niece, I could safely say that I had much better things to do than those applying to high school now. Every day I see him tired of teaching 7-8-9 hours a day. The school's management is trying to shape their schedule in such a way that it's varied, not too monotonous, to spare them, but that doesn't weigh much. I am glad that I was born before 2000, and I regret the generation after that because of the present education system. * The next comment concerns the teachers, who I would like to note in any case that I can only speak of them with great respect, because I believe that in the current educational situation, in this chaos, it is only their calling to maintain order, and it is their internal motivation that can still sustain proper teaching in education. Nevertheless, they were criticised for commenting on political balance. Bence made it up. If there's anything I can do, I'll have the teachers checked. In principle, it is not possible to politicalise within the school and represent only one point of view. Right? '"'," asks Bence. Well, all my teachers are total communists, MSZPs or DKs. The Hungarian teacher swears at least once in every hour. Most people laugh at it, but it makes me sad. I was able to come to a relatively strong school, and a teacher would allow me to do that. My history teacher, for example, didn't teach us anything from after the 1956 revolution until the 2000s. What was in the great socialism? He said there was a cry of silence and peace, where everyone was happy and dripping candy out of the sky. When my parents asked me about it, she said that she was showing me the '56 revolution just because it might be a graduation essay, but we shouldn't know about that either. And there wasn't time for the rest. The history teacher said that because I dared ask you in class, when we watch a documentary about Trianon, he said that if it was up to him, never. We didn't watch. The Hungarian teacher began to joke with a lighter in the Biblical movement to set it on fire, but it is bound by the rule. Nice, huh? Interesting, they don't put that in the window. He wrote down Bence's comments. That's all I could fit into today's speech. I'll continue my show. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-18-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for an after-the-date speech: 'Enough with the parasites'! When will the government act decisively against the parasites that make the lives of Hungarian people miserable? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not the woods in Somogy, it's Somogy in the woods, they say. However, the danger I wish to speak of has long been threatening not only our county or the forested areas. In the entire territory of Hungary, but especially in the western and even more South-Transdanubian counties, there is a real threat to more serious, even fatal, diseases, including viral meningitis, and bacterial-induced lyme disease. We had a relatively mild winter, which came in handy for millions of people living below or at the edge of it who, with stubborn, rebellish stubbornness, still do not want to accept that 47,000 can be lived, so that they can live from some epicureist thought, driven by their hedonizing tendencies, would constantly turn the gas up or put it on fire so that they would not have to sway in their unheated homes. Unfortunately, due to mild weather, the majority of pathogens survived the cold season, including ticks, live and come out from their hiding places. Therefore, the prognosis agrees that in 2016 we can prepare for a record-level tick invasion, what makes it really problematic is that there are many infected individuals. Sad, but this type of blood-sucking parasites can reproduce without any obstacle, as their natural enemy, a hornet species, has died and, under EU regulation 1849/2006, pirimiphos-methyl preparations could not remain on the market as a biocidal product in the Union. Therefore, the National Office of Official Medicine has withdrawn the marketing authorisation of the only sprayer authorised for tick removal in Hungary, Actellic 50 EC insecticide concentrate from 10 August 2007. The number of diseases is rising, and the dreaded parasites are already in the parks as well as in the school and kindergarten yards. While there's a solution! Dr. Béla Bózsik Pál and Zoltán Bratek, assistant professor of the Department of Plant Physiology at ELTE, have shown decades of research that certain pathogenic fungi can help to defeat the parasites. The method that can be used throughout forests, resorts, tourist routes, and camps - unlike the previous chemical extermination - is completely harmless to nature, since it only destroys ticks. Unlike most pesticides that are still used today, there are varieties that not only kill pests, but also insects that are important cornerstones of the food chain and can lead to the destruction of other animal species, such as certain species of fish. So there's a reason why more pesticides have been banned recently. The researchers said earlier: "We have tried everything, we have negotiated with at least fifteen companies over the past few years, but none of them have agreed to produce it, because licensing would cost billions. None of these insect pathogenic biocidal products have been placed on the market since the introduction of EU legislation. This simply destroyed product development on this line, so it's not even worth applying for. Even a large company like Bayer has stopped producing such natural products. So after many, many struggles, we gave up so that this drug could solve the ever more worrying tick problem. - so far, the statement. So I have every right to ask: has there been any progress in this matter? Is the government willing to support the method of tick-killing with insect pathogenic fungus in aqueous solution developed by two Hungarian biologists? It is incomprehensible that the solution, which has been tested for more than ten years, is not produced, is not used in Hungary, even though it has been proven to be effective. Moreover, as I mentioned, it does not contain chemicals, so the greatest advantage of the drug created by researchers is that it does not harm the environment. It is incomprehensible that, while insecticides containing pathogenic fungi are already used abroad, for example in the United States, France or England, in our country, where the most infected areas of the world, where at least 10,000 new diseases occur each year, there is a deaf ear to the indication of professionals offering effective solutions and the painful suffering of patients. Hundreds of billions are being squandered, with huge sums of money filling the bottomless pockets of the vassals near the government. Wouldn't it be time to give a little effort to the problem we've just outlined and, ultimately, to ease the burden of a lack of resources OEP fund by saving the treatments that will be needed later? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-18-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-211	Mr President, Dear House, It is very unpleasant to stand in front of two Fidesz-KDNP Members to speak to the empty Chamber, but I made a promise, I promised that where I am going to the country and to the foreign exchange credit forum, I will bring the thoughts and voices of the people who live there to Parliament. In this spirit, last Friday I was in Jászberény, where also the amazing feeling of the guests and the citizens coming to the forums that their voices were not actually heard by anyone. In a very simple way, they presented several cases where they took on their so-called foreign exchange loans at HUF 160-165, and they considered it impertinent that while they were being forinted at an almost market rate of HUF 256, they became as unfit as they were before, the luckier, the richer, to this day we do not know how many Members of Parliament, at a discount rate of HUF 180, could be repaid. It's a double standard, a disgusting example of insolence. However, we also see that such problems do not arise only in Jászberény, where our excellent municipal representative and his team are still fighting with the executives. With executives whose income is very easily deducted from the debtor, 33 percent or even 50 percent of their salary is paid, and they go to the local enforcer, because they would ask for a paper on exactly how much it owes them, but they refuse to do so, although it would be mandatory to give it to him. In fact, they're pursuing a psychological blackmail that ends in breaking up families, losing property. That is why we complain that the government offers false solutions instead of real solutions, or puts people in a position instead of those who really need to be helped. We could give examples of why the Government of Hungary wants to support migrants within the CSOK and NOK system, how it could have occurred that, in the face of European judicial practice, which would only require you to have a basic social package, you would extend the support for home creation to migrants, so-called protection workers from third countries [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] "to those who have been accepted, which is a real shame. But what we're seeing is that it can be helped in the realm of reality. It is not a real help to the National Asset Manager, where they can help 3,000 more people with more than 150,000 debts out of their own mistakes. [[15.10]] With regard to 3,000 people, there's going to be a struggle here. But what help is it when you take someone's own property, take away what your family has worked for for generations, and then hire it back from you? And if, if, if, in the case of a worse constellation, another government comes, let's say, to beat this fortune to a drum and no longer rent it to the original owner, then you will spread your hands that it is no longer your fault. You should think in a cycle, you should move in two directions. First of all, they should be outraged when, in these days, on the part of the Curia, there is actually an apology message to the Banking Federation that, yes, although some decisions are made that might be appropriate for the victims, they do not regard this as a guide and try to reassure the banks. The result of this phenomenon is the pact that you have previously concluded with the Banking Association, the EBRD, and where you have undertaken on paper not to impose any additional burden on the financial institutions concerned for the benefit of the victims, and this excludes the real solution. This is a straight code for how only one Jobbik government will be able to implement this solution, by HUFing at the rate of admission, by stopping evictions and making all abusers account. But there would be another direction: you should not put migrants in CSOK and NOK and create a new kind of migrant pet next to their real migrant farms and camps, but should put thousands and tens of thousands of young Hungarians in a position to see a realistic vision of their own home. Perhaps they would also put the idea of leaving abroad a little further back or up on the shelf, because even in spite of the difficulties, the Hungarian youth tries to stay on his feet and stay on his feet in Hungary, especially if he has a safe farm, if he has a home, if he can retire somewhere after a tiring day, if he can start a family somewhere. For this reason, we do not understand that, in the case of both CSOK and NOK, you again favour the upper middle class, the luckier, the richer, and do not regard it as a guiding principle that a rent-apartment program, which was offered to you on the Jobbik tray, targets 90 percent of the real target group, as 90 percent of Hungarians do not buy housing, they do not want to buy new housing, they simply want to stay on their feet if they have a rental, if they expand their parental reception, but they want to have children here, still in Europe. You have a dog duty to allow them to stay here, to thrive here, and to build a happy Hungary here. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-18-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister wishes to respond in writing. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech:. Tragic conditions in the social field. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, in my speech before the agenda, I have dealt with the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection, which, if we look at its functioning, its structure and its role and its role, is the same as the KLIK in education, only in Pepita. It has the same problems, it is just as unsustainable; in the same way, instead of helping the sector, it has put a new water head on their heads, on their shoulders, and makes it more difficult than it would help the sector work in the social sphere. Within this, we experience stations and steps within centralization. One of the things that came into force from 1 January this year is the establishment of child welfare centres. I do not argue that professionally it is possible to find logical arguments as to why these centres should be set up, why children's welfare and family support services should be managed in a centralised way, even under the control. But I can't really agree with the way you're doing this, the way the government did it. What am I talking about? I was thinking, when the first legislation came in on this, the proposals and regulations for the merger of two sectors, child welfare and family support, I thought that the creation of child welfare centres, the transformation of the territory itself, would have been a long-term work, which would otherwise have been expected, because let us not forget that we are talking about a system that has been running for almost ten years, which cannot be transformed overnight. Compared to this, the first amendment to the legislation came in last spring, the second amendment to the legislation came in in autumn, which actually established child welfare services at the legal level. By the end of the year, the government's decree came into force and entered into force on 1 January. And since January, the Treasury, the district offices, the Child Welfare Centres, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Welfare have thrown the ball at each other on such fundamental issues, we have not even discussed the professional issues whether a room is an establishment or not; where should it be classified; where will it belong; who will be subject to it; or how, legally, from the perspective of accounting, whether that room or that building should be classified. And then, as I said, we haven't even talked about professional issues yet, because no one can really answer them. What do we experience? We are experiencing and receiving feedback from workers in the sector, children's welfare centers, that this system may become unworkable in this way, without proper information and information. Here, too, I see, we can say, allow me this little poetic exaggeration, that, behind yet another good professional proposal, as we are experiencing these anomalies in its implementation, I see nothing but me or the people involved, the workers in it, but that we are talking about another austerity package. They make it difficult to operate the profession and want to save as much as possible on this important service, even though a professional transformation would have had a place and a role to play. I do not now go to global levels such as the fact that it is not enough to bring together sectors within child welfare centres and child welfare services, but rather to bring these two together instead of resolving the two important laws that define the life of the profession. It should not be a separate social and child protection law, but what you have promised for many years should be a common law on services. This is what would make it easier for the industry to work. It is not the centralisation that you are doing at institutional level, but the centralisation that the legislation actually goes into harmony; the two major groups within the large sector can work side by side, in close cooperation and in the interests of the beneficiaries and of the country. This was supposed to be the centralization we needed. This is the centralization that the sector has been waiting for. And what I said in my immediate question, the urgent thing that the sector is looking forward to is the introduction of a social pay table, keeping it alive. The lives of those who, risking their own safety every day, maintain this system should be made viable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-18-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In addition, after the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title "Learnings of the Week of the 50th Hungarian Language." I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2016-04-18-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, from Monday to Wednesday, the 50th event series was held in Sárospatak and Széphalom. Fifty years ago, this initiative was launched by László Grétsy. This event took place for the first time in 1967; then the invitation said that a 4 HUF ticket had to be changed for the opening. Obviously, many people remember that it cost 3.60 a kilo of bread, and we can ask the poetic question whether today Hungarian society is in such a state of consciousness that it would buy tickets for such an event in this value.50. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary, I think that the whole society and the government should have celebrated this initiative, but we have now reached the point that the government has not been represented on any level. This has never happened in the past 49 years, the last 49 times. In 50 years, academic presidents, presidents of the Republic, prime minister and ministers have always been present at this event, now nobody. The government also established the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy, but no one appeared at the event, and if we look at their website, the last event they will report on is November 2015. [[15.20]] During the week of the 50th Hungarian language, there were also professional and values statements at the plenary sessions. I would also like to recommend some of these to the attention of this House and the government. In the last 25 years, at least 2 million Hungarian speakers have disappeared. If current trends continue, the Hungarians beyond the border will disappear by 2060. In 2016, the government and the entire Hungarian society should have celebrated another round anniversary, as the Hungarian language strategy was 20 years old and was created and developed by Géza Balázs in 1996. The government did not celebrate the anniversary of this either. Civil society organisations currently carrying out the Hungarian language strategy in social work have no state support, neither the Association of Mother Language Nurses nor the International Society of Hungarian Language and Culture receive regular state support, but can only obtain occasional tender support. The government's cultural strategy should include support from general, secondary, higher education pronunciation, linguistics, rhetorical competitions, camps, week and day of Hungarian language. At present, half a dozen people do this in social work, they organize it, arrange it, cooperate with enthusiastic teachers, community culture professionals. Their work wasn't enough for the government to show up at this event. Public media language has never been as bad as it is right now. Five years ago, during the Orbán government, the Radio Language and Microphone Committee has not been convened for five years; the result can be heard if we listen to the public radio, and the impact of the so-called Montágh Corps, which was formed in the process, is barely felt. Every five years, the Hungarian Language Strategy Research Group carries out a survey of the state of the Hungarian language, the Institute of Language Strategy set up by the government has not yet reached this point, these experts regularly perform this in social work every five years, the results of this survey will soon be published in a volume: Report on the Hungarian language 2010-2015. In this volume, recommendations are made to the government. This was also presented during the week of the Hungarian language. This can be seen as the main elements of the language strategy. These recommendations were submitted to the government, with recommendations on the linguistic situation of science, education, the media and Hungarians across borders, but also on bilingualism and foreign language education. But not only did László Grétsy consider the issue of the Hungarian language important, but also if we reach back to Berzsenyi, who in his ode entitled "The Hungarians" in the title "What is Hungarian now?" In answer to a question, he also mentions a language example, including Berzsenyi, in this way:., The championship robe of our formers / He changed his tongue, he changed a nasty stranger, / The guard of the nation, / The soft heart of a child's puppet... Ladies and gentlemen, Language is the key to our future, because without it there is no culture. We Jobbiques will work to have a week of 100 Hungarian languages at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On the day of the Earth, Mr Orbán could apologize for telling Zoltán Orbán that environmental protection is left-wing issue, a matter of rich countries, hinders economic development, we cannot spend on this. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-18-217	Dear Parliament, This week we celebrate or mourn Earth's Day. Perhaps it is the latter verb that we should look at Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's attitude. The anxious warnings of Secretary of State Zoltán Elijah, who had been expelled from the government, proved to be words crying out in the wilderness. Are you deaf? - I could ask Viktor Orbán, but I would like to quote him, what he said to Zoltán Illés, and what has recently been made public is that the environmental issue on the left, the issue of the rich countries, hinders economic development, and we cannot spend on it. These are amazing statements that we have read from him only in the WikiLeaks documents in other cases. It's time to break up with the Western and Orbán lie that environmental protection is a balliberal privilege. Unlike Viktor Orbán, we better people believe that green thinking and strong national policy are the conditions for each other. Indeed, only those who love, appreciate and respect the land where they live, their past, culture and society, that is, a national-minded nationalist, can come up with a life-harmonic, credible environmental protection programme. Although the opinion of Viktor Orbán is unfortunately decisive in government governance, his position is not shared by the President of the Republic, the Directorate for Sustainable Development, the sectoral officials of the government and the experts and the results of the Paris Climate Summit at the end of last year. Earth's Day encourages people to think more responsible and environmentally consciously, and Parliament should set a good example, but under the leadership of László Kövér, the House also paints a particularly damaging picture. In the interest of the Green Parliament, I recently made a request for data in the public interest to the Parliament's Office, and so I learned that, last year, the Parliament used 7 million 443 thousand of the A/4 paper alone. The main reason for this is that Article XX does not apply to: The electronic filing and administration of documents still does not work under the rigid leadership of the Speaker of the century. Although the Office of Parliament purchased hardware-key laptops for Members already in 2010, it is only on paper to submit, for example, an amendment proposal or a written question, which, due to the necessary signatures, sometimes means unnecessary trips and undue environmental pressures for a rural representative. It is incomprehensible that Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. In the 20th century, when tax returns can be submitted electronically, why is the electronic system of declarations of assets such that it is mandatory to print, sign and submit after machine completion, which is then published in the form of an image on the web, not even in a textual, searchable form, which has long been advocated in vain by civil society organisations for transparency, and of course not environmentally conscious. Microsoft's government support would also be worth a mass or confession. Increasing our IT dependence on multi-company companies is also of concern from an environmental point of view, as open-source Linux computers are much more good, they can be used, they are not playing to buy new devices after a few years. The Parliament led by László Kövér does not set a good example in this area either, but is leading the Internet censorship, as the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info, for example, is not available from the official network. Following the introduction of the environmental product prize that also taxes solar panels, Jobbik also suggests that solar panels be installed on the roof of the Parliament's Office Building and planted plants, which would not only be more friendly but also have a positive impact on the microclimate. I also find it a bad message that Parliament's smoking yard is heated with thousands of watts of heat heaters, so I also initiated the removal of the heating of the street at László Kövér's for a year, but in vain. Of course, we can at least be glad that in the ashtrays of the monument next to the Chamber, Tibor Szanyi no longer suppresses cigarette butts, for which unfortunately we have seen an example before; as also the speeches that have been called for a probe in the debate of a half law are memorable. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] With Zoltán Illés's disillusionment and disillusionment, the government is looking for the sector from an ivory tower, but I asked for the advice of the president of the National Nature Guard Association, Géza Temesi, and he was willing to help. We have a lot of work to do. He has been struggling for a long time to draw attention to various problems and to the change that there was a struggle in the early history of mankind when he struggled for his own survival against the forces of nature, climate conditions and different living creatures, wild animals, while his present and future, on the contrary, is a struggle for the survival of the natural environment, wildlife and climate conditions. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, I trust that by considering and implementing our proposals, we will not have to wait for Jobbik to come to government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Zsolt V. Németh wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-18-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, I've always admired the performances of my predecessor's diverse personality, as well as your performances. This rhetorical stunt patrol fascinates me. But my problem with both of them is that sometimes it's rich with folktale elements. It's either true or it's not true. We do not know the context in which Mr Zoltán Illés spoke to the Prime Minister about the issue of the environment. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] However, we are quite certain that the facts, the resources devoted to the environment, contradict this supposed idea. [[15.30]] Not only can we spend but we also spend significant resources on environmental protection and more than the average of the European Union countries. [[The First of Novak: Did he lie?]] If we look at environmental expenditure in proportion to government expenditure: Eurostat's recent statistical analysis shows that in 2014 government spending on environmental protection was on average 0.8 per cent of GDP in the EU 28 Member States, while in Hungary 1.2 per cent of GDP was used for this purpose. This is supported by OECD data. Hungary spends more on environmental protection than Austria and Germany as a percentage of GDP and the Hungarian public expenditure. The figures of the report on the implementation of the 2014 budget also show that there was a performance of HUF 727 billion in 2014 at the level of public finances, which is 2.3 percent of the total expenditure and exceeds the planned amount by more than HUF 100 billion. If we look back at the last EU programming period, we see that there has been an unprecedented amount of resources available for environmental and nature protection. During the period 2007-2013, the operational programmes, the rural development programme, European territorial cooperation or other international cooperation programmes, either under the Norwegian Fund or the Swiss contribution, or under other thematic programmes in Europe, such as the LIFE programme, we spent nearly HUF 2300 billion on environmental protection and nature protection. If we look at the next period, we will be paying more than half a thousand billion, 500 billion forints, so we will spend 2800 billion on environmental and nature conservation programs besides those mentioned above. In addition, the LIFE programme or the new programmes of the Norwegian Fund. We can add to this amount as a new element the obligation of SAPS to green up to around 740 billion, i.e. a total of 3540 billion for the development of the sector by 2020. But not only do these development resources show that this area is important for the government, but also measures taken in recent years. For example, we have established 43 protected sites of national importance, and we have initiated the declaration of 24 subterranean cavity systems that are significant for earth science and/or bat conservation purposes as a natural value in the past period. In addition, developments have extended to the entire sector, such as the largest development in the national air pollution measurement network in recent decades worth 1.8 billion HUF, or I also mention the selective collection of waste, which was introduced from 1 January 2015, which resulted in unexpected significant results. I believe that these figures and measures are proof to the Member that environmental protection is not a restricted area, and I trust that the concern that you have for the nature issue will perhaps help to increase this resource in the years to come, as far as budgetary resources are concerned. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-18-220	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-scheduled speech: . Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the Parliament. Report on Jobbik's Youth Division...Hear your voice! The results of his campaign, part six. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-18-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of Jobbik IT Gergely Farkas, like my fellow group member, the Jobbik Youth Division,. I should also share the messages and opinions received during your campaign with the Parliament myself. I think this is important, because young people are counting on Jobbik, and they trust that their personal experiences, insights and ideas can be presented by us to the politicians of Fidesz and the representatives of the government. Even if I have only a weak number of members of the Government here, I trust that they will forward what they have said here to their fellow political groups and to the government's authorities. In my speech today, I would like to convey to you the following series of opinions. A number of legitimate, reasonable criticisms have already been received and are constantly arriving regarding daily physical education. Based on these, it is not the everyday physical education that is the problem, since it is basically loved by students, but the lack of infrastructure to provide it. David wrote: "I don't have a problem with exercise, but an 11th grade 12th grade student doesn't appreciate a daily physical education class, because there's not enough room, so classes have to be completed in the zeroth hour or afternoon session, which is not easy. For example, I have class zero on Thursday, then I have seven classes, then two hours of prep school. Those two or three hours will take just as long as I don't have a minute of free time. I think that this should be considered in any case, even because this position on everyday physical education is very prominent among the opinions expressed by students. David continues his criticisms: "The curriculum is too many, often at university level, the wording in the books, and there are many unnecessary parts. What I see as a problem is that there is a huge lack of engineering, and physics graduation is not a disadvantage, in fact. But in high school, the level of physics education is zero. There are no experimental tools, we study the subject two hours a week for three years. My own example: I'm prepping for a Physics graduation, and I'm currently an 11th grader. I'm going to two physics classes a week and I'm going to a high-level pre-school, plus two hours, plus a physics class, which also means two hours, and I've only got a chance at mid-level graduation. And finally, the biggest problem I can say on behalf not only of my own but also of all my fellow students who graduate for the future is that we don't know what system we're going to graduate from 12 and a half months before graduation. This is outrageous to me. Yes, unfortunately, this is the characteristic, and I think that in many areas of life, the government's attitude is similar in this regard if we look back on the measures taken in recent years. Let's look at Erik's proposal, who says that we should install archery and runic writing for mandatory subjects. I think that it is also worth discussing such opinions here in Parliament. Obviously, criticism can also be made, and it is not certain that these two things should be made mandatory, but the fact that living our national past has a greater role to play in the curriculum is, in my view, absolutely important, and the coloring of everyday physical education with traditional steps would, in my view, be progressive. In his letter to us, Gizella shared with us the following complaints: I find it a serious problem that the school system is not practical enough. The theory is all over it. I also find it a problem to cover up the absences in many places and to grant the two-piece of grace, just to get the student out of school as soon as possible. It's the best way to hurt him, because he's only fooling himself. Yes, this is also a constantly recurring problem. I'm asking the authorities to keep that in mind. In addition to the Internet interface, we continue our campaign in the streets and squares, where students are happy to come to tell us their complaints, ideas and suggestions. You can write all this down for us on a flyer. Allow me to quote some of these flyers. Tamás's idea is as follows: We would like to have more hours that are practical. Breaks between classes should be longer. This relates to and coincides with the previous opinion. Kevin's point of view: å Several state-funded university places should be provided. Only regulations should be put in place to ensure normal implementation, such as how everyday gymnastics can be held in a gym. I have already referred to this, and it does come up very often. According to Zsombor, more money should be spent on education instead of unnecessary stadiums. Graduation should only be changed in a five to six-year-old system, not in the middle of the year. Yeah, it's just that it's unpredictable here, too. I am a big sports fan, a football fan, but, for example, with the argument of former Minister Hende that it is important for prevention to build a stadium in Felcsu and Kozármisleny, I would argue strongly. The textbooks do not follow the curriculum issued to teachers. Every hour should be 40 minutes. It would be nice to check and change the quality of the menu, writes Agnes. And Bálint raises an interesting topic in his idea, which, in the absence of time, I can only say: in order not to have an opinion among students, who is poor, who is rich, he raises the introduction of a uniform. [[15.40]] I myself do not necessarily agree with this proposal, but I think that there are many such ideas worth bringing here, and otherwise we will continue to consult the heads of institutions. I myself will visit St. George's educational institutions in the next few days, and we will continue to look forward to young people's suggestions, thanking them for their trust, and constantly confronting the government with their opinions and suggestions from week to week. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-18-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches after today's agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 25 April 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:41 p.m.]]
