u2016-09-19-0	Good afternoon. Welcome. The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Then, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, asked for a pre-scheduled speech:. Who wants to deport those against whom they are campaigning? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-09-19-1	Mr President, Dear House, We are not surprised that, with regard to the migrants that are supposed to be detained by the physical border closure, the government is expressing an opposite position, while allowing the richer migrants to enter Hungary through the form and channel of the settlement government bond, in addition to paying the budget. At the same time, it is outrageous, which came to light at the end of the Bratislava summit and as a result, as we can see that the failure of Viktor Orbán with regard to the document here has clearly been proven, as he has given his blessing to a joint document of the V4 which is fully turning 180 degrees. Thus, to justify a document in itself which reads as follows:, even in a significant number of countries struggling with labour shortages, the migrants concerned are the subject of ridiculous and public ridicule in a country where a referendum is held against the same process and a rhetorical campaign is maintained against which the reality is somewhat contrary, as tens of thousands of migrants are now streaming in at the borders of Hungary. We can also say that a separate border guard has not yet been set up, but it is perfectly visible that this closing document is the failure of Viktor Orbán's international policy; not only has he not become a strong man of Europe, but he has actually given up positions whose signs have been shown earlier, for example in connection with Michael Varga's astonishing, insane statements, who said that he believes - and in the opinion of several Fidesz leaders - that the government of Fidesz-KDNP intends to install foreign workers' hands in the sectors affected by labour shortages. At first, they spoke of such madness only seasonally, but then a fidesz leader began to exchange ideas with the journalist that they would bring labour from third countries from which it would be easier to integrate the arrivals. The question arises as to the need for integration for seasonal work, and who it is that Viktor Orbán and his government would like to deploy here in the midst of a political campaign that should, in principle, be directed against the introductions in relation to the quota deficit. At the moment, we also see that there is a European Union decision on compulsory resettlement, and we also see that Mr Orbán has not raised a spectacular veto on the final document on its implementation. We also see that Commissioner Navracsics did not beat the table, did not hold an extraordinary press conference, but did lie down in the European Union system in the case of a consensual decision on the same matter. And we also see that at a meeting of the European Council, five Fidesz Members or Envoys have also given their blessing on a mandatory distribution mechanism on a similar subject. So, once again, we get the government in a double game: it does something quite different in the European Union space than it does at home, and we are at the moment saying that, according to Prime Ministers Fico and Sobotka, the quota is a dead matter that is not on the agenda. Indeed, it was not on the agenda at the last meeting of the European Council; at the moment, there is only one decision at home minister level. The question is why, if Hungary is such a fighter in the domestic rhetorical space, Fidesz-KDNP's agent does not initiate the suspension of this decision on quotas at the level of the Minister of Interior, what prevents you from starting something in the international space with a much more combatant stand. After all, the final document, which the V4 said and adopted this weekend, clearly suggests that the countries concerned are much more comfortable with the issue of migration, and it suggests that Viktor Orbán and his government are more comfortable, since they allow the richer to be settled through settlement bonds, ordenáré for commissions, with the participation of offshore companies, at least providing the right of establishment, the hall of citizenship for the richer aliens. At the same time, we also see that while the leakage through the border lock is continuous, they accept and sanction a closing document that means that a third country would be able to install a labour force in Hungary. Mihály Varga's long interview and previous statements clearly admit that there is such an intention within the government. So far, this has been denied, so far, a secret, let's say, but now we can see and clearly see the pure intention: in certain economic sectors, Hungary's Government deliberately wants to install aliens in Hungary, while campaigning against the same problem in relation to the quota regime. The part of South Park that comes to mind when old people talk about, yes, a war must be started, but let's make it seem like it's going to happen. That's exactly what you're doing. So let's be honest: why they gave up their positions and are willing in European space [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At last, to initiate the possibility that Hungary should not be affected by the reproach of the Bratislava final document, the conscious introduction? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-2	I'm asking you who you want to speak for the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. Here.
u2016-09-19-3	Honourable Congressman, I have not seen the relevant section of South Park, but I would like to assure you that the government continues to say no to any form of compulsory resettlement, which is why it initiated a referendum. If you take a good look at the resolutions of the Visegrád Four, you will see that it is precisely about the fact that the decision on the admission of immigrants must continue to be left in the hands of the Member States, so the Visegrád Four reject Brussels' decision over them. They take note of the fact that a Western European country [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Let us say, for economic reasons, it decides to give way to immigration, but they themselves say no to Brussels dictatorships. It is strange, very strange, that you completely confuse the right to free employment in the EU with mass and uncontrolled immigration into Europe; you are probably consciously doing so. I am sorry that Jobbik has joined the ranks of those who misinformed the Hungarians about the referendum, with this left they have joined a group - a regrettable development from a party claiming to be national. In fact, last week many other opposition players also tried to convince the Hungarian public that the referendum on 2 October was in fact out of reason, since Brussels is considering withdrawing the compulsory quota package; you referred to it just now. Those who did so deliberately withheld the fundamental facts from the Hungarians. Let's see what these facts are. Last Thursday, a Hungarian journalist asked the European Commission spokesperson if Brussels was planning to withdraw its decisions on the mandatory allocation quota. The spokesperson, with a noble simplicity, replied that this was not the case, so that is not the case. The opposition is trying to get him out of the way, but it remains a fact that Brussels has written its decision on forced resettlement in May; it is also stated in the written document that all Member States that do not want to participate in the resettlement programme would be punished with a penalty of up to HUF 78 million per head. It is also a fact that the Commission's current work programme includes the implementation of this decision, of course under another heading. The President of the Commission also asked the Slovak Presidency last week to speed up negotiations in order to speed up the distribution procedures. Moreover, the decisions in Brussels are often confirmed by the European Parliament, a resolution adopted last week would speed up resettlement programmes, extend them to new countries, introduce sanctions and simplify family reunification. [[11.10]] It is very talkative that this resolution was voted by the Hungarian left-wing Members, and then, at home, they say that there is no quota programme in Brussels. It's been a long time since we've seen such a turnover. I would like to remind you that in recent years 54,000 immigrants have been tried to return to Hungary by Western countries. There's two more weeks before the referendum. It is not too late for the opposition to recognise that 2 October is not about domestic political battles, but about the future of the country. It's about whether we can control the choice of who we live with. As far as Jobbik is concerned, I am very sorry that, in principle, as a national party, they are not doing everything they can to succeed in the referendum. Speech is that their party president, who is otherwise at home on ATV, recently stated that they don't even have a campaign leader for this referendum. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: What are you talking about?]] and, by the way, focus on the period after the referendum on 2 October. This means that after the left, Jobbik does not represent its own voters. That's too bad; they must know why they're doing it and who asked you to do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A voice from Jobbik's benches, Béla Kovács?]]
u2016-09-19-4	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Scared Future." Here you go.
u2016-09-19-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In my speech today, I would like to draw attention to the important day that the world is celebrating tomorrow. Since 1954, 20 September is the World Children's Day. Unfortunately, the government either doesn't realize what's going on with the children in this country or, worse still, doesn't care about the future generation. We can think of derailing the education system, of the government's anti-knowledge education policy. However, we can think of depreciating family allowances or destroying the social support system, which has made the lives of families with hundreds of thousands of children even more difficult. We also need to think about the system of child protection, which affects our children much more than we think. Today, about 200,000 children are listed as vulnerable in Hungary, thousands of children are in child protection care. There are very big problems with the child protection system today, which is the result of the government's interference. More and more news about the serious abuse, the crimes that happen to children. Some cases occur with children who are in the eyes of professionals, yet the system cannot prevent the various abuses they have suffered. The fact that the government has combined family and child welfare services is also a problem, some tasks can only be performed by the district centers, leaving services and families with almost no tools and resources on the ground. In the last few days, there was news of what happened in the other area of the supply system, in specialist care. The abuse of children's homes is particularly serious, which is linked to a shortage of professionals, a lack of skills for workers, a lack of proper professional control. The wages of social workers are the lowest in the public sector today. Nor can it be ignored the fact that the Government has refused to ratify the Istanbul Convention since 2011 as a means of combating domestic violence. But what can we expect from a government, a governing party, whose members are openly against women? The other day, Gábor Kubatov explained: "My cause is the future of my son. I have two daughters, but I hope that they will be taken by some young man and supported. That's all the government's family policy is for us. That's what a girl's child is worth in the 21st century. In the first century, the government in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP has submitted a proposal for a resolution: in order to effectively prevent physical, psychological or sexual abuse, it is considered necessary for the government to review the system of child protection care and to submit a report to the Parliament. This is all in conjunction with the campaign launched by the TASZ, which draws attention to the fact that every year more and more children are raised as state care workers. According to the latest figures, more than 23,000 young people live in such homes in Hungary today. The worst thing is that although the law expressly prohibits it, the primary reason for breaking up families is still the extreme poverty of families. Meanwhile, John Lazarus threatens families living in poverty by taking aid away because of refugees - as if they had not already done so. After all, last year the government abolished housing support, regular social assistance, kindergarten support and all fairness benefits. Four years ago, 28 500 HUF of aid was reduced to 22 800 HUF. Public service costs less money today than in 2009. But there's a strong government in lying anyway. Bence Rétvári, Parliamentary State Secretary, Christian Democrat politician, didn't accept Don't lie! Orders, Mr. Secretary. In recent days, he said that the number of disadvantaged children in kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools halved in six years. He did not specify, Mr Secretary, that this is only a change in the concept of disadvantage. In his reply to a question, the Secretary of State acknowledged that the amendment did not make the data before September 2013 comparable to that of later data. Then what was the Secretary of State Bence Retvári talking about? So you lied. I would only draw attention to two details, Mr. Secretary. In 2016 until now, investigations have been carried out for as many child murders as in 2015 throughout the year. So far, 17 children have been murdered in Hungary in 2016. And 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 are growing up in poverty in Hungary today. Finally, set out in a UNICEF report [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to conclude my speech: the situation in our country will be determined tomorrow by the fact that there are children today, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-09-19-6	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention, with all due respect, to the observance of house rules in terms of timeframes as well. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that children today can look to the future with a more positive vision than they did six years ago, because if we look at the subsidies that the state grants to families raising children today and what it has provided before, not to mention what the socialist government has taken away - we can look back here on the destruction of the home system, which was passed by several legislative proposals between 2002 and 2004; we can think back to the time when the socialists have taken away a monthly child from every Hungarian family, they have taken away the possibility of the third year from each Hungarian family. [[Dr. László Kács: Should we ask today's 12-year-olds? Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] They've tightened up the rules, always with families bad luck. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The last six years, Mr. Secretary of State! Zoltán Grimlock: Don't point, work instead.]] When we talk about families raising children, we can never forget whether, for example, wage cuts in 2008, the taking of one month's wages and many other measures have adversely affected Hungarian families, or even the increase in the price of textbook packages, or the one that has to be paid to families as a plus to the cafeteria. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You are in position! You're not an opposition, you're a member of the government.]] On the other hand, in 2010, we thought that the international corporations here in Hungary would rather pay more taxes and support families with this money. Let's take this tax burden off the shoulders of the families. The result of this is that today in Hungary 4.3 percent of the total national product is spent on family support, support for children, compared with 2.5 percent of OECD, and this amount will continue to increase in the following year, as we calculate that next year the total of family support will increase from 4.3 percent of GDP to 4.7 percent of GDP. This is the more than 1000 billion forints that can help families manage more in 2017 than they could farm in 2010. It is also important to mention that every year more and more years now receive textbooks free of charge, and families do not have to manage the cost of textbooks, because this year they receive the first four textbook packages free of charge, next year in the first five classes. It is important to say that in the time of the socialists, we inherited that HUF 29 billion was spent on the arrival of children with the most difficult fates. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We'll just fix what you took!]] 29 billion. Now, next year's budget adopted this year will spend 74 billion forints, two and a half times as much. I think the socialists have something to look down on when they talk about children who are deprived, that they only gave HUF 29 billion to what this government gives HUF 74 billion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There was no child poverty, Mr. State Secretary.]] [[11.20]] Not to mention the family's home-building discount, the CSOK, against which they considered it important to reduce the Socpol; this government expanded it, and now there are tens of thousands of families with assistance from the government, less than whom, but twice as much as ten million forints of non-refundable support in order to get children's homes. Student loans2 open up the possibility of further education for older people. As regards the number of disadvantaged children: if you were right, Congresswoman, that there is only a methodological change behind this, we should not say that every year the number and proportion of disadvantaged children in schools has decreased. But since it has decreased every year, from year to year, as the rate of family support has increased every year - it cannot say from our governance to a time when we wouldn't give more to families from one year to the next - so is the number and proportion of disadvantaged children, and the circle of these families has narrowed from year to year. And why is that? Because unemployment is no longer 15 percent, Madam honourable Member, but 5 percent unemployment. Because now it's not 32 percent, it's 16 percent. Because now families raising children do not not have to pay taxes, but from 2014 a family with average income does not have to pay contributions for three children. You have taxed the lowest-income families to whom this government has granted tax and tax exemptions through the family tax system. As regards the transformation of child welfare services, which you have criticised: it was, honourable Member, that instead of 48 centres there are 198 centres in Hungary now, and the child welfare service has reached all walks. The criticism of this is strong enough, even on the part of a opposition party. The issue of child abuse is an important issue, and we need to act on it. Therefore, our government background institution, which is intended to serve this, has reached every fourth child in the last year, and has tried to help them individually, and if anyone has experienced a complaint or any kind of abuse, they have provided information and assistance. Our goal is to ensure that as few children as possible live in homes and more in foster homes. And, you know, dear Congresswoman, we are building the future of families in Hungary on an expanding society. [[It raises a copy of one of the MSZP's billboards in the 2004 referendum on dual citizenship, which includes Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and his family.]] But when you gave your own name several years ago, your own face to Hungarian families rejecting Hungarian families, after which, I think you do not have much of a right to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-8	Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda:. The Hungarian reforms do not work. [[There's a lot of noise, interference in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I suggest we listen to Ms. Schmuck's head of the group, because she has the right to comment now. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last week, the Standard & Poor was upsetting Hungary, and Mihály Varga immediately began to talk about GDP being above 3 percent next year and in the coming years. In our view, this qualification does not mean that the economy is stable and that people will be better in the coming years. If we were to ask people if they were going to recreate the country, we would think that the answer would certainly be no. But let's see what's behind the window of excellent financial data. On the one hand, we must see that the deteriorating processes of the real economy and society are accelerating. The countryside is falling, the villages are being depopulated, people are going abroad to work, and not only the skilled labour force but also the unskilled labour force is missing. Mihály Varga is talking about the need for 250,000 migrant workers. We report to Mihály Varga that we have found 250,000 people: they are located in London, Germany, Austria, and can be found among the 236 thousand public workers. However, we see that education has been bled out in recent years, and since 2010, 200 billion have been withdrawn from education annually. However, there is no country that has made significant progress in the development of the economy without investing significant amounts in education. In addition, 41.5 percent of the people in Hungary live below the minimum living age, i.e. less than 88,000 forints per month. The Hungarian society has never been more unequal since the change of regime than it is today. After 2010, the Fidesz government consciously favored the highest-income layers. Remember that when the single-key personal income tax was introduced, he put 500 billion in his pockets for the highest incomes, and he took 134 billion from the lowest incomes. However, this was also the meaning of minimum wage taxation and measures benefiting the upper layers. I would like to set two examples here. This was the case, for example, when in the case of foreign exchange lenders the final repayment was carried out or when the wage ceiling was raised with the managers of public companies. We do not think that György Matolcsy, for example, needed a salary of HUF 5 million. Otherwise, they often refer to the fact that real wages have increased steadily over the last three years, but the average covers it. They do not mention that the minimum wage remains below the minimum wage of 15 thousand forints, the public wage is below the poverty threshold, which is 70,000 forints. And they are also deeply silent about how large the territorial differences in the country are. According to statistics, only Győr County and Budapest exceed the average wage level of the twenty counties. The difference between the richest and the poorest counties is over 100 thousand forints in net earnings. Returning a little to macroeconomic data, we see that this is due on the one hand to a favourable international environment. In all other Eastern European countries, these indicators have improved, interest rates have decreased, budget deficits have decreased, the economy has increased, and more than in Hungary. We believe that this is the only international environment that cannot be built on, because the international environment can start in a negative direction at any time. Moreover, the state of the Hungarian economy is still not very encouraging, investments are falling, and industrial production, for example, decreased by 4.7 percent in July. The LMP believes that radical change is needed if the economy is to be set on stable feet. The most important thing is that there is a need to stop the accelerating emigration and the labour shortage cannot be replaced by migrant workers in Hungary. Significant wage increases are needed both in the public sector and in the private sector. As a first step, the LMP calls for a reduction in employee contributions, a reduction in employee contributions from 18,5 per cent to 12 per cent, and an immediate introduction of multi-key personal income tax. The two would increase the minimum wage by HUF 23,000 net and the average wage by HUF 37,000. In addition, it is necessary to stop stealing money from the education system and withdraw funds.
u2016-09-19-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you again for saying the same things last Monday. I see that government arguments don't affect you, but not just government arguments, but facts and figures. We are now saying that not only do you not believe in the government and the country, but you also do not believe in international organisations outside the country, which recognise the performance of the Hungarian economy. It therefore does not accept the position of the European Union, nor does it accept the positions of the IMF and the OECD, which do recognise the performance of the Hungarian economy, nor has it accepted since Friday the position of the international rating agency Standard & Poor, in which category it proposes Hungary to recommend a recommendation based on the performance of the Hungarian economy. So you are no longer arguing with the Hungarian government, but with these organisations. Sit down with them, discuss why they do not understand why they recognise the performance of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, you do not accept that the budget deficit in Hungary has decreased according to the expectations of the European Union, and that the country has been removed from the hostage deficit procedure, and now Hungary's budget performance will be below 2 percent, which is worthy of recognition at international level. You do not accept the figures that show that the government debt is falling in Hungary. It is not a woman, but it has increased significantly until 2010. Then it was over 80% of GDP, and now it's 75 percent, and it's going to fall even further. [[11.30]] It does not accept that inflation in Hungary has basically ceased, as they say, that the tax on small people does not exist in Hungary, because there is no inflation growth. You, LMP, do not accept that unemployment has decreased significantly in Hungary since 2010, the figures at the time were above 11 percent, and now unemployment is below 5 percent. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Everyone went abroad.]] In the last six years, 600 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary, and so much more people work. You also do not accept that the consumption of Hungarian people has also increased significantly, contributing to economic growth, as the consumption of Hungarian people has increased by 9 percent since 2010. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Secretary of State.]] This may be due to higher incomes, more money for people. Returning to income, because he also tried to give details about it, the minimum wage increased by 51 percent, gross average earnings increased by 27.4 percent between 2010 and 16 [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't talk about gross.]] In the budgetary institutions - without public employment - 28,3%, and if the family tax reduction is taken into account, the adjusted net earnings increased by 34,8 percent over a long period of five years. So you don't accept these macro numbers, you don't accept them as ratings that have increased and improved the country's performance. But what is perhaps the ugliest thing about his speech is that he does not accept economic growth numbers, nor does he accept results. We are at the forefront of the European Union. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What?!]] After all, Hungary's economic growth has been the second in terms of the European Union in the last six months. And here's what Standard & Poor says about this, if you don't believe us, you don't believe the government. So the analysts of Standard & Poors pointed out that, compared to their previous projections made in March, it is also considered justified to improve the growth prospects of our country. According to the credit rating agency, Hungary's GDP will increase to 2.5 per cent on average in the period between 2016 and 19 instead of the previous 2 per cent. Among other things, the improvement in our balance of payments, the reduction in the foreign exchange ratio of public debt, and the vulnerability of the country and the financial sector has been significantly reduced thanks to the self-financing programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before the LMP criticizes the country, the government's performance, be aware, I think that with the facts, respect the facts, if the performance of the government and the Hungarian people, which they have done for the growth of the Hungarian economy, does not even acknowledge it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-12	Dear Parliament, Member Mátyás Firtl, representative of the KDNP, applied for a speech before the agenda: "Gróf István Széchenyi's 225th anniversary will be celebrated." Here you go.
u2016-09-19-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On September 21, we celebrate the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi. Széchenyi is still a modern statesman, a role model to be followed in his moral holding, personal faith and public responsibility: Christian, Hungarian and European. He started a regular and radical spiritual transformation that was only two in a thousand years, one in the age of St. Stephen, and the other at the beginning of the new age, thanks to Széchenyi. Therefore, it is a pleasure to prepare for the Széchenyi Jubilee that thanks to the commitment of the Hungarian government, after many decades, the restoration of the Széchenyi memorial sites and the Széchenyi heritage has begun, not only to its rank but also to its values, and to create opportunities for further improvements. It is a special joy that this is done by the continuous and consistent enforcement of Christian values and world views. Christian morality and responsibility typical of Széchenyi have always been the source of the work that has brought Hungary to power. It is therefore a message that the restoration of the Széchenyi Mausoleum, with the support of the government, was the first to take place, as a sign of worthy grace, as regards respect for the family resting place, the faithful predecessors. Dear House, What is exemplary is the manner in which the village of Nagycenk, the municipality of Nagycenk, opened a series of local events of the Memorial Year in a community with the Holy Mass of High Priests on 2 January. Similarly, Christian values provide the rock solid foundation and elevated dignity of the Jubilee celebration. Thus, Dr. András Veres, our newly appointed Bishop of Győr's Holy Mass of High Priests, will be a worthy introduction to the following festivals on the eve of the Jubilee. As the local commemorative year was started in the spirit of our religious values, so should the anniversary's creed and visible sign be that the Széchenyi Castle Chapel will be restored to its Christian dignity. We return the original function of the chapel that gave place to the remains of the Earth brought home from Döbling, until it found its final resting place, and which after 45 was an apostate, value - crisis system for decades, was dishonorably deprived of its sacred purpose. Thanks to the Hungarian Government and my fellow Member L. Simon László sitting here, the Széchenyi Chapel can once again be a place of prayer, so we can celebrate in the most honourable way. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] By doing so, we have repaid a moral debt that we owe primarily to the Almighty, to the unshakable belief of Széchenyi, and then to our conscience and self-esteem. Thanks to the Eszterháza Center, the managers of the Széchenyi Memorial Sites, they create and continuously carry out the possibility of presenting, developing the heritage. Dear House, The aim of the developments that have started on Nagycen since 2014 is to make the memorials and facilities associated with his life's work a place worthy of his greatest Hungarian spiritual heritage. On the 225th anniversary, with the support of the government, the Széchenyi Memorial Museum will open a new and modern permanent exhibition about the man, polyhistor, economist and nation-building oeuvre of modern Hungary, and the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble will be declared a national memorial. When we unanimously decided in the Parliament on the commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, all of us here, for the sake of a nation-enhancing common idea, have shown unity, now that we are living in life-changing times, we must join forces in the same way for the sake of the nation. Széchenyi's spirit, legacy, is a legacy left to us, which was always a spiritual resource for public thinking in the changing moments of the nation, and an example. Széchenyi's oeuvre is presented to us in the spirit of action for the future generation, and it is our honorary, patriotic duty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-14	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Rétvári responds on behalf of the government. Here.
u2016-09-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for evoking the personality, performance and work of István Széchenyi, not for the first time, but for the second time, within the walls of the Parliament. I think it can only be a standard, because if you look up to one of the wall paintings, here is Széchenyi, along with many other reformers, with a large Hungarian of 48. If we look up to these ancestors, these ancestors, perhaps we could get ourselves together here in the Hungarian Parliament at times, so that we can look them in the eye from week to week when we come into the Parliament. Allow me to begin with two Széchenyi quotations. The first is: The One whom the Lord God has made to be Hungarian, and he will not side with his nation, he is not a good man. "Széchenyi," he writes, "but later he said, "Every honest heart is most holy in the country." It also shows that Széchenyi István is an important starting point for all people, for whom patriotism means something, and it means something important how important Hungary is in the period of reform or the revolution and freedom struggle of the 48th century. And you can't go through Hungary, whether it's only an hour and a half or two, or you can't do a larger distance in Budapest, even on foot, without meeting something that Széchenyi István's work, Széchenyi István's legacy, Széchenyi's proposal or a plan for which he fought a lot, many of everyone, has overcome a lot of things and was able to achieve it. [[11.40]] It's enough to think about the horse race, the first horse race in Pest, which lives to this day. Of course, in its own age it had much more function than today, since it was important for military virtues on the one hand, it also served the country's strength for the breeding of the best breeds, if large stud estates were able to line up the best thoroughbreds in good horse races, and, on the other hand, as other suggestions, this was a social event, which served as a strengthening of the Hungarian nobility, the Hungarian nobility, the Hungarian nobility, the Hungarian nobility, so that they could not socialize in other countries, not seek the vicinity of the court, but in worthy social events, the Hungarian social leadership can think together as Hungarian and serve the interests of the Hungarian nation. We can remember the establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1825, the establishment of the National Casino, which was also a community of public education and debate, where it also promoted the solidarity of the Hungarian elite at that time and their service to the nation. In 1833, either the Danube Steam Shipping Company in 1831 or the Balaton steam boating in 1846 or the Chain Bridge, which we call the Széchenyi Chain Bridge, all had performances in 1849 that predestated him to the ministry, if you can say so in 1848. But even the kind of things, perhaps who saw the movie Bridgeman, may remember these scenes separately, relate to his name as well as the first flush English toilet in the countries under Habsburg domination, which was first realized in Cenken around 1846-47. These results, I think, will make clear his greatness. In vain, one of his greatest rivals said that he was the largest Hungarian. He always took on his Hungarian identity, always in his own way, in his own corrupting, moralizing way, and therefore, when the Member said that he was a statesman, but also an example in his moral standing and personal faith. I think that anyone who has read the details here and there from the Diary has seen exactly how he is concerned about himself, how there is a huge lamentation in making a decision, and how he even takes the sometimes sad fate with serenity and humor when, after a decision, he tells us that we will surely be hanged now, I just ask them to hang us with Kossuth's back. So even in the hardest times, he didn't lose the serenity. The character of the example is that there are many programs and organizations in Hungary with their names: the Széchenyi Prize, the Széchenyi Scholarship, the Professor's Scholarship or the Széchenyi Plan. At the same time, it is important to have a centre for all of this, not only a memorial place, but also a cult place, the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble in Nagycenk, which, according to the government's intentions, becomes a real memorial centre, not just a museum that has not been developed in forty years. Allow me to conclude with a Széchenyi quote. However unfortunate the country may be, no matter how chained the nation may be, it will sooner or later be freer if the pure blood of the bourgeois virtue in its inhabitants is ferocious. Let us trust that for many in civic virtue Széchenyi can also be a modern role model. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of the Fidesz, applied for a speech before the agenda:. The lessons learned from the weekend elections in Berlin. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, On Friday, it was a year ago that on 16 September 2015, a border attack, known as the Battle of Röszke, took place, where our police officers defended for the first time the border that we had established with a good decision. At that time, it was definitely a dividing point in so far as everyone was talking about a refugee crisis, the whole of Europe, and that was the first time that it was not about refugees, but about aggressive migrants. Then very, very much criticism was given to both the fence, border protection and otherwise perfectly legitimate police action. All we have to do is think of Chancellor Faymann, his statements. Of course, it tells us that the Chancellor is no longer an active politician. At that time, the Hungarian government was critical of this step, this direction, and today it is becoming increasingly obvious that this is the right one, and Europe is starting to move in this direction. At the same time, there are still those who insist on the idea of refugees, people who need and can be integrated, and in particular I would like to emphasise the word "sustainable." It is still Brussels, but it is safe to say that the German government led by SPD-CSU is also at the forefront of Angela Merkel. However, the fact that integration does not work is clear today; it does not work anywhere in Europe and it does not work in Germany. To tell you the truth, out of a million immigrants, they work in less than a hundred sizes, less than a hundred people work. This is about as if, in terms of proportions, in Pest County, where 1.3 million people live, out of all the counties, only a few hundred people work. People can see the situation in Germany, and they have expressed their views. Two weeks ago, in Mecklenburg-Elő-Pomerania, SPD received minus 5, CDU minus 4 percent, and in contrast, with the decisive response to the migration crisis from scratch, Alternative für Deutschland, the AFD received an additional 20 percent. But this is not an isolated phenomenon, since yesterday there were local elections in Berlin. Here, the SPD, the Social Democrats minus 6.8, the CDU minus 5.8 percent compared to its previous score, reached a historic low point, while the left, Linke plus 4 and AFD plus 14.1 percent. It is therefore quite obvious that the people's parties pursuing a wrong migrant policy are at a historic low point, while the extremes and the extremes on the left and right are firmly advanced. German people had the opportunity to express their views only in local elections, but we Hungarians in Europe for the first time on 2 October have the opportunity to strengthen the migrant policy that Hungary is pursuing, confirm that we want to decide who we live with, who we want to live with, live and work with in a country. The police protected Hungary's borders, if you will, the integrity of Hungarian sovereignty. On October 2nd, we can all do this with our vote, a pen in our hands with the x drawn to the no. We have to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech by the Member. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-19	Honourable Congressman, Many say that European and German public discourse is increasingly determined by the issue of migration. I do not want to comment on the results of the elections, the internal affairs of Germany, but allow me to speak about the regional impact of migration. It is clear that the main burden of uncontrolled immigration is borne most by local people, by people living in towns and villages, because targeted resettlement should not be imagined as one place for migrants, but by dividing it between regions, counties, municipalities and villages. These distribution procedures then cause extremely serious local conflicts. Why do these local conflicts explode? Consider some examples. [[11.50]] There is a large city in Western Europe where a regulation requires that private property be designated for immigrants and that the authorities of the city constantly assess potential real estate. In the same country, there are also examples of immigrants being housed in river ships and gymnasiums. It has also been so shocking that citizens living in municipal sublet have been evicted because of the need to provide housing for immigrants who have been allocated quotas. Every county in Italy has to take in immigrants. For example, in an Italian small town there were fierce protests after the prefect of the county tried to house migrants in empty houses, even though the local mayor protested against it. Thus, residents across Europe feel that they have less and less say in who they live with, and it is no coincidence that many local communities are organising protests, which then have an impact and impression in national politics. Speech is that last week, a small French town launched a referendum because they wanted to install migrants from Calais. These conflicts are undeniable even if we know that the vast majority of immigrants are victims, most of them victims of the failed Brussels policy, because the distribution of people by formula to immigrants is an extremely inhumane procedure. I think that the Hungarian settlements are increasingly aware of the risks, which is why hundreds of municipalities in Hungary have adopted decisions against resettlement, and that is why there is a wide consultation on the Brussels quota package with the participation of municipalities and Members of Parliament. This is, moreover, the consultation that the MSZP attacked the same week when the European Parliament confirmed the Brussels quota package with its votes. For this reason, we encourage local government leaders to consider the risks of the quota package, the Brussels quota package, and encourage the residents of their municipalities to participate accordingly, regardless of their political affiliation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Here.
u2016-09-19-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Ikotity István, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2016-09-19-22	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the office of Administrative Secretary of State and the appointment of a new Minister of State for Administrative Administration. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here.
u2016-09-19-23	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Law 218. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, István dr. Dankó, Minister of State for Administration of the Ministry of Defence, was relieved of his office with effect from 15 September 2016, while Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. Law 215 On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. László Firicz as Minister of State for Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of Defence with effect from 16 September 2016. Budapest, 13 September 2016 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2016-09-19-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the new Secretary of State for Administrative Affairs on his mandate and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:54 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a) - Article 124 Under the authority of Mr Zsolt Egyed, Mr K/11876. The amendment was rejected because it does not fall within the remit of the addressee, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, what remains of the five points of the Secretary of State for Health? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-09-19-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is reasonable to ask some questions about the five points announced by the Secretary of State for Health because it was strange in itself that he did not want to implement a programme, but some points, but we have heard from the public that they are also being carried out in a rather tense manner, which - I say in brackets - in many cases may not be a problem. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask which super hospital concept is now being maintained in Budapest: one, more, many small, many large, renovation, new construction? I would like to ask you that this professional minimum programme, which has been envisaged because hospitals have not been able to deliver on the current ones, is now where it is. Obviously, they want milder ones so that hospitals can slide through this exam, and patients can heal under less good conditions. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, when your colleague at a conference says that the reason why the chronic classes are moving in drag or not is to make changes in their better known names, so as not to give the opposition an opportunity to attack, is this not ridiculous? The problem is that they want to strike people who have one sin: both old and sick. Therefore, I think that this point could be forgotten by the Secretary of State. What about the chancellor system? Does the debate within the government already take place on the issue of Commissaries, who will have one task: conspiring a relatively seemingly functioning health care with a small amount of money? What about the GP system? What about basic care? After all, I see that the situation of the women in charge has not changed. You found money for your compensation in someone else's pocket, in their maintenance. It's your usual method. Mr State Secretary, I look forward to your reply, even if the publicity of this will be a little limited, because Parliament's mediation is now not available on Parliament's website, but I congratulate you on that, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-19-26	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is a pleasure that Parliament's meetings can now be followed through parliamentary application by those who want it. [[Dr. László Szakács: Aunt Mary of the Ormans how does she follow?]] I also suggest that Congressman download it. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I think you can learn a lot of information about your representative's work from there, too. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why download it? We're sitting here!]] I would just briefly remind you of four numbers in relation to your own activities. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] when the resources for healthcare were reduced by no less than HUF 650 billion, because they had taken out so much that you had laid off 6,000 medical workers, the number of beds was reduced by 16,000. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: And in the last six years? It's grumpy in the same place.]] And in the meantime, we've managed to close 600 small patios. Compared to this, we are talking about who can expand, where and how much during this period. Exactly what a new super hospital and how it is built in Budapest, Mr. Congressman, there is no secret in this, you know that the Hungarian Gazette was published a few weeks ago, it exactly marked the location of the North-Pest and the South-Pest Super Hospital, where the preparation could begin. You know, this year 1 billion forints for planning, and next year for concrete construction 40+10 billion forints budget and EU funds are planned, so they can start the development at both North-Pest and South-Pest sites. In South Buda, the area where the exact location where the super hospital in South Buda can be built and also the tasks in North Buda is selected. They are displayed precisely in this government decision published in the Hungarian Gazette several weeks ago. In the case of primary care, you know that every year, including this year, the possibility of funding for general practitioners increased by HUF 10 billion. In addition, this year, the patronesses received a special HUF 2 billion grant, and a decree was published a few weeks ago to ensure that these 2 billion forints, the last pennies, will be paid as a wage, and this could be 30-35 thousand forints plus for them, and the institutional system will not be able to use this for anything else. The same is being prepared for the amendment of the minimum regulation [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and is also taking place in public, I think, in relation to regional care organisation. I'm sure we'll come back to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-09-19-28	Once again, I ask you all with respect to the house rules. If you can't do this on your own, I'd be happy to help. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "How long do we have to endure such shocking conditions? It's an address. Here you go. [[12.00]]
u2016-09-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Recently, a shocking video was released in the shower of the gynecology and obstetrics department of the teaching hospital in Győr County. The footage shows that the shower, which has been fought down for decades, has been covered with worms. In itself, the fact that the 21st century is shocking is shocking. In the first century, such circumstances may prevail in certain hospitals in Hungary, but it is even sadder that no action or action has been taken by the competent authorities for days after the incident has come to light. Unfortunately, it is not a unique phenomenon. Similar shocking footage of many other hospitals' wards or waterblocks has appeared. These cases can be divided into two groups, either because of bad conditions or because of a serious lack of money or simply because of non-compliance with hygiene conditions. The question arises that a hospital where people who are sick and who want to heal go, can afford such a degree of omission. Why is there no proper control to eliminate such conditions? The government is constantly communicating how many billions are being spent on hospital renovations. On the website of Minister Zoltán Balog, an entry on 28 February 2013 is available, entitled "Supreme technology awaits patients at the Petz Aladár Hospital in Győr, renovated from HUF 11 billion, and according to the article, the aim of the project is the institution of today's quality. Do you think today's standards are consistent with a hospital that lacks basic hygiene in its shower? Why doesn't the competent authorities take immediate action on such a matter? Since then, has the National Office of Official Medicine been checked, and what steps have been taken to eliminate the repulsive conditions? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's comprehensive response. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-30	Secretary of State of Rétvár in two minutes!
u2016-09-19-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you mentioned, there was a very comprehensive and very large development at the Petz Aladár County Training Hospital in Győr. 13,7 billion forints, which we have spent on that hospital, has also gained a new wing during the development, which is completely modern, completely new. Obviously, the development did not affect all the buildings of the hospital, so neither did the one you quoted, and about which one of your better colleagues posted this video on the Internet, shared it, and since then Jobbik has been trying to talk about it in every forum. This part of the building and, by the way, the water blocks, the water spaces are being renovated. In the same corridor, according to the hospital, another renovated shower was at the disposal of everyone who wanted to use the water block, so there was another room at the disposal of the patients. However, after this, of course, the discharge took place in this room, and it has been closed since then, but, as I said, there is another one that the patients were able to use and able to use, but it was also important to de-insect this affected shower, which has happened. The National Chief Medical Office, which investigates and needs to investigate these hospitals, has also conducted an investigation, so we have to say that right now this shower, which you quoted, is no longer used, and we hope that soon this water block of the hospital will be renovated as well. But I think that 13,7 billion forints spent on the Petz Aladár Hospital in Győr is a development that has not been seen in recent decades. However, there is no doubt that in certain places instruments had to be replaced and the conditions had to be touched that were not 10 years ago, but 30-40 years ago unchanged and undeveloped, 30-40 years old instruments had to be replaced and 30-40 years ago ungroomed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I had to renovate the hospitals. This is a long job, but 500 billion forints was also an abundant source. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-32	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture a question:. The Prime Minister has already noticed the consequences of fishing in confusion? It's an address. Congressman!
u2016-09-19-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is well known to everyone that the transformation of the fishing and management law has made it impossible to fish natural water in Hungary, and this prehistoric occupation in the Carpathian Basin in Hungary has ceased. This is only one segment of the matter; the other segment is clearly that while fishing exploitation cannot catch every species of fish in Hungary's natural waters, therefore the ecological problem is whether selective organic fishing is carried out at the angler. According to Parliament's decision, Mohosz was the sole owner of the natural waters of Hungary, and the results of these are now clearly visible after the first year. After the first year, I tried to put the questions exactly, because I wondered if the government had a strategy and a plan to change this situation. In particular, I took the liberty of asking this question in the light of the fact that, according to press reports, the Prime Minister has already commented that from the previous gastronomic offer, high-quality natural water fish disappeared everywhere near the natural waters of Hungary. I wonder, Mr. Secretary of State, if your wallet knows what the fishermen who have lost their jobs and what has become of their families. Are there any negotiations going on with them? What came out here from earlier questions, at the beginning of this year, I asked the government's position on several occasions, the promise was that some kind of care would be taken, that we would be talking about employment at Mohos as a fish guard or otherwise. I wonder if there will be any change in ecological problems. Will ecological fishing be enforced? Does the government have a plan for what will happen to the fishermen who have been left without a living, since this issue has not been resolved since then. Is there any strategic plan for adverse ecological changes in the fish fauna, and is there any possibility of any change in it? And as my last question, I would have expected an answer to the question that in the autumn session, I saw that the amendment to the fish management law would be on the agenda, and I would have asked. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Whether or not this amendment will resolve these problems. I look forward to your reply. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-19-34	Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs responds, here you go.
u2016-09-19-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your question, and this is not a figure of speech, because there are really important things here for fishing that need to be discussed. I think that from an ecological point of view, it was the right decision of the Parliament, and if I remember correctly, perhaps you abstained, did not vote for the amendment of the Fish Management Act, perhaps indicating that it was not your position to disagree with all of this. So, from an ecological point of view, I think it is clear that the 21st edition of In the 20th century, large-scale and industrial fishing in natural waters, as we say, was banned by this law for commercial purposes; I think that this will be of much greater ecological benefit than if we had maintained it. If, say, you look at the official catch logs in the Danube Delta collection - unfortunately I have no information on the informal part - then you can see, for example, the huge reductions in size in recent decades. So it's very noticeable, whichever part we reach, let's say, to the Danube, divided into sections, that there was a serious problem with some kind of overfishing. I think a good answer to this question is that Hungary has banned this large-scale industrial fishing, and I think that this specifically covers ecological aspects. Nevertheless, you are also right that there are about 250 businesses involved in this, and obviously this causes them a livelihood problem, which is why we asked you, in agreement with Movágy, to contribute to this activity either in fish production or in lake fisheries or later in other forms. Mohos didn't get everything. The Mohos received a lot of water areas by selecting them, but let's add that there are 350 thousand fishermen, who also have very strong interests, and who also weighs much more in the economy. Overall, I think that this was a good decision, and although the issue of fishermen still needs to be resolved, this is indeed ahead of us, but it was an ecologically correct decision. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2016-09-19-36	Dear Parliament, Congressman Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Another Corruption Scandal for Jobbik." Congressman, here you go. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you asking me? Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: What about the lands of New White Lake?]]
u2016-09-19-37	Dear Secretary of State, Another corruption scandal linked to Jobbik is making the Hungarian press loud. We're talking about the mayor of Verpatak. You may remember, the settlement is famous for its so-called Verpataki model. This radical, far-right-wing mayor's method consists in dealing with strict enforcement of the letter of the law rather than social issues, and raising gypsies. The relationship between the mayor of Verpatak and the representatives has been tense since the elections, after Zoltán Orosz Mihály became a minority on the board. The lack of accounts, the disregard of Members' motions, the conduct of Russian dictatorial meetings or the lecture of the notary was a recurring issue. [[12.10]] The tension peaked when Members made the adoption of the 2015 accounts subject to conditions. They absolutely rightly demanded that the mayor report and confirm the whereabouts of agricultural revenues in 2015 and HUF 15 million, as well as the items of significantly increased expenditure. Due to the unaccepted closure of the municipality of Érpatak, the Hungarian State Treasury stopped the basic funding. According to the law, if the settlement does not have an approved closing account and so does not have a budget, the state will lock the normative. Thus, the settlement remained without income, and could only farm from the reserve placed in the bank. So I respectfully ask: how long can there be corrupt leaders in Hungary on the far right? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you asking me all these questions? That's great. It's physical. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-38	The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, there have been countless news articles and broadcasts about the operation and activities of the municipality of Érpatak, the mayor of Érpatak, and this is a very controversial period, a series of highly controversial activities. It is their own task to use the municipality entrusted to them and the funding provided by the State to the benefit of the inhabitants, to the greatest satisfaction of the population, and if the municipality is not satisfied with the activities of the mayor, then it is obvious that the municipality of the municipality must take the necessary steps first and foremost. But the state, the government, must also monitor the regularity. The government office, the county government office, did this, and found a number of objections to the activities of the Verpatak municipality and the mayor. In addition to the Government Office, individuals and stakeholders have also reported, so the Department of Economic Protection of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Department is currently prosecuting the Mayor of Verpatak, or against him, including due to alleged fraud, firewood anomalies, illegal use of vehicles, or property purchased or acquired in the municipality's territory. Obviously, after this process is completed, we will only be able to report on specific matters. However, it should be noted that directly the government does not have the possibility to intervene in such cases in the functioning of the municipality. The government office and the judiciary are capable of doing so. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: . The pay gap between Hungary's departments is increasing. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! It is not controversial, but all of us experience that the pay gap is really increasing between the various points of Hungary. In a year, as an example, while in Budapest the average net income in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county increased by 5 thousand forints. I think that this must be changed sooner or later, because there will be levels of torsos that are unacceptable. You know, when in Pest they earn more than 87 percent of the average net income, such as in the Eastern counties, there is a big problem, because these differences are already unbearable. I don't have a problem with the lawsuits in Budapest, I don't think they're enough, but I do have a problem with the 87.3 percent difference between the two. I think that this pay gap, this growth rate, should end. Of the money that represents a net average of HUF 100,000 in the Eastern counties, it is not possible to make a decent living, to support a family, to raise children. I think that for the same work you should obviously be able to obtain similar incomes on the basis of the given principle, and I would add that if there are still such wage-positive situations in Hungary as you have maintained for six years, practically hundreds of thousands of others will be able to leave this country because they cannot support their families in a fair way. In fact, my only question is when they want to change that, when they want to create a situation where money that provides a basis for decent living comes into people's hands and pockets so that they can take care of their families fairly. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-42	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, on your behalf, I welcome the students and teachers of the Lónyay Street Reformed High School and the Újpest Two-Teaching School of Technology and Secondary School. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State now responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When I thought about the answer, what should I give in response, I argued with myself whether it was necessary to do the phrase that I am doing now or not, because I could ask back as a question: if you ask so vehemently, you ask such questions. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You can't ask back! You have to answer!]] What, then, did they do for people whose income was low, who lost their jobs, who had to face the same rate in terms of wage differences? But it is not my place to ask the question now, so I would like to answer you in any way. For example, when you handed over the steering column, nearly 3 million 800 000 people worked in Hungary, now nearly 4 million 400 000 people, with real wages constantly increasing over the last three years, while real wages decreased at your time, at the time of 2008-2009, to a small extent. Returning to the answer, I would like to respond specifically, for example, to the fact that the wage difference between counties, yes, exists, that is a fact. You're right about that, but in recent times, in the counties you mentioned, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, the increase in average wages was higher than at the national economy level. I would also like to point out that wages are determined by the employer and that the government can deal with the establishment of a minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage for skilled workers. I would like to say that the requirement of equal treatment means that, in a specific workplace, no distinction can be made between those who do the same job and, listen, wages between those who provide the same performance. Compared to this, average wage data at county level are generated by averaging the wages of a highly heterogeneous workforce. That's why what you're saying isn't real. You're not simply telling the truth, Congressman, no matter how much you nod. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr: One! Sit down. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-44	Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. How long will the government keep employees of the Hungarian state companies under his supervision? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, on behalf of Mr János Fónagy. Congressman, here you go.
u2016-09-19-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The news of domestic labour shortages has almost exploded in the political discourse. Due to the 8 plus 6 years of socialist and fidesz rule, hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have migrated to the West, while there is a growing concern at home that they will not find any skilled workers. However, those responsible for the Hungarian exodus could really set a good example in wage matters, since the government is also a significant employer. Through the Hungarian National Asset Management, more than 170 companies have majority ownership, so he dictates wage policy in these companies. The government could have started to catch up on the workers of its own companies, but instead the governments filling the pockets of their own oligarchs with billions of dollars, and the governments that did not regret any support from foreign multi-company companies have treated the MÁV, Volán or hundreds of thousands of employees of Posta. During the first four years of Fidesz, the wages of these workers were increased by just over 2.5 percent. In addition, while the leaders of the state companies are making 5 million HUF a month, their early rising, hard-working but miserablely paid employees were pushed to the bottom of the pay gap, quoting Latin American inequalities. [[12.20]] It is no coincidence, therefore, that there is an increasing increase in the number of people in the area of rail and bus transport. On the basis of the above, why do you not want to substantially improve the wages of those companies that are key to the normal functioning of this state? Or sooner or later, not only would the manufacturers install 250,000 foreign workers here, but the government also secretly sees the key to the solution in cheap Bangladesh bus drivers and Congolese shift managers? And if, in your response, Mr Secretary of State, you would refer to the wage increase of the MÁV now announced, please bear in mind that the salad law establishing the 2017 budget has reduced the salary of railway passengers working on standby by 10 percent, so that they will only return what was previously taken, but this is not an increase. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your attention, I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-46	Secretary of State, Secretary Major is responding. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-47	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the statutes of the companies in question and mentioned by you and the articles of association of companies which are majority-owned by the Hungarian State, the holder of the rights of ownership is entitled solely to determine the remuneration of senior officials. As you know, the powers of the competent decision-makers of the companies, as a result of the conciliation of interests with interest organisations each year, are laid down in the agreements concluding them. As in recent years, the majority of companies have been consulted on the employer's and employee's side with the support of the owner's rights practitioner. The majority-owned companies of the Hungarian State typically perform priority public tasks that would not be possible without State involvement. Therefore, the burden-bearing capacity of the budget plays an important role in the design of wage policy. In recent years, the decision-making bodies of the majority state-owned companies have paid particular attention to the wage arrangement of the lowest wage workers, thus following the government's objectives. As a result, differentiated development of the basic wage and various self-care measures were taken. By the way, the government is trying to unlock these polarities by developing career models. The employer's side, companies, pay particular attention to the preservation of a well-trained, professionally trained workforce, and this is sometimes supported by a one-off payment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-48	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "Why have you resigned from the protection of the population?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have tried to clarify in several written questions what is going on in Ferihegy and what is going on with the environmental load and the high level of noise, but unfortunately, in the Hungarian administration system, in the system of national cooperation, in the system of pass-through, which does not give a clear answer, I did not get a straight answer, so I thought I would try to ask what is going on here, in the walls of this House. Since 93 the airport's maintainer should have an environmental permit, one of the key issues being noise pollution and noise burden. The authorisation granted in 2006 was valid until 31 December 2011, but in 2011 it was extended without any meaningful consideration because it was said in 2006 that there was no substantive change. The license issued in. 11 expired in 2015, which was already attacked by several Fidesz governments, i.e. government-party governments, appealed with citizens' initiatives, and more and more people claim that there is a noise load exceeding all health limits in the affected areas, Budapest X., XIV., XVI., XVII. in the area of Ecser, Vecses and Sitlő. It's interesting because they say they measure average noise. This means that if I hit you sleeping between midnight and 5:00 a.m. with a kettle drum per hour by your ear and then averaged that noise, you'd say it's within limits, you'd be able to rest well, because that's the average noise. This is how this noise measurement is currently carried out in Hungary, and it is said that the permit is legal. The judicial review of these appeals is taking place at the moment, but it does not seem that anyone would do anything to reduce the noise burden. I respectfully ask if there will be a solution. Is it expected that substantial progress will be made in implementing environmental noise limit values in these otherwise fidesz-led municipalities? I ask you, is it possible not to adjust the limit values to the airport's needs for once? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Are you trying to enforce health limits at the airport? I'd like to expect an honoured response from Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-09-19-50	Secretary of State István Nagy responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Speaking of Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport, it is important to point out that we are facing a problem inherited decades ago. The airport was established almost seventy years ago, before the current legal environment for protecting the environment, and therefore it was not possible to take preventive environmental measures. Over the years, the airport's environment has been built up, while air traffic has increased greatly. As a result, the specific situation of the airport has emerged today, in which, unfortunately, the potential to significantly reduce noise has been reduced. Mr President, the introduction of maximum limits for individual flights would be welcome. I fear, however, that you are not aware that the order of implementation of each take-off and landing depends on both international safety standards and current weather. In addition to these, there will be insufficient room for manoeuvre to address environmental concerns. Surely, Mr President, you do not dispute the need for safety to prevent environmental protection for life protection reasons. Unfortunately, due to the close construction of the airport, any tightening of environmental requirements can only be achieved by limiting airport traffic or by transferring the airport. These opportunities have no reality today, taking into account the burden-bearing capacity of the national economy. Mr President, the Member demands that the limit values that have been generally adopted in Europe be respected. It should be noted that there are no generally accepted air traffic noise limit values in Europe, which vary from one Member State to another. What is uniform in Europe is the management of aviation with action plans based on a flight noise strategy noise map and individual noise emission limits for aircraft. We also require compliance with these in Hungary, and beyond that we require the designation of protection zones and the operation of a noise monitoring system. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It also has an obligation. Through that obligation, the noise effects of air traffic...
u2016-09-19-52	Secretary of State, please...
u2016-09-19-53	... checking is ensured. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-54	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. When do Hungarian cows switch to GMO-free mode? It's an address. Congressman, please. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the European Union, our country has traditionally been regarded as one of the top fighters of GMO release. The fact that a genetically modified plant variety intended for cultivation can indeed be decided at Member State level in the EU is not, in a small part, the result of Hungarian diplomacy. As a result, there is still no possibility of cultivation of GMOs in Hungary today, and in a large part of the Carpathian Basin there is no room for manipulated genome varieties. Our fellow opponents often try to reduce this result or make it look like a half success, as they claim that the government is not doing anything beyond the ban on crop production, for example, to put GMO-free foods on the shelves of shops. I'd like to put an end to this misconception. In Parliament or in front of the press microphones, it's easy to say anything, but in the background, there's a lot of work going on, and there's a lot of fighting going on at this level again. To mention just two examples: on the one hand, it took long months to authorise the draft regulation on labelling rules for food from GMO-free production in Brussels, which could soon be used for milk, meat, fish, bee-keeping products, plant food and eggs and food from them. At the end of last week, the relevant regulation finally came into force; on the other hand, serious amounts of support can be used for domestic soya production, which can replace GMO soya, thereby feeding live animals with GMO feeds. [[12.30]] So work is ongoing and serious steps are being taken to preserve and make the best use of one of the strengths of Hungarian agriculture, the displacement of genetically manipulated foods. I ask, therefore, Mr Secretary of State: when and under what conditions will the trademark of GMO-free production be applied, why did the authorisation in Brussels take so long? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-09-19-56	Before I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy, I welcome the students and educators of the Ady Endre High School, Szakgimnázsium, Secondary School and College in Nagyatád, and the St. Elizabeth High School, Kindergarten and Primary School in Árpád. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-09-19-57	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Following a long preparatory work, a ministerial regulation allowing GMO-free labelling of foodstuffs was published on 15 September and will enter into force tomorrow. The use of the label will be voluntary, so it is not an obligation, but an opportunity for food producers. The manufacturer may affix the GMO-free text to the packaging. Where it can demonstrate that the ingredients do not contain GMOs, it must also be demonstrated for products of animal origin that the animals have been fed with GMO-free feed and that this can be monitored in the food chain. I would like to stress that GMO-free foods, domestic-produced plant-based foods, bee-keeping products, food from animals consuming feed produced in Hungary have already been on the shelves of shops. For food producers who are basically working with domestic raw materials, it will not be a problem to comply with the new legislation. We therefore expect a number of manufacturers to take advantage of the possibility provided by the regulation and to mark its production processes in line with the legislation already this year on its products. We hope that there will be a new market opportunity in these products. The main challenge is to provide GMO-free feed, as a significant part of it currently contains soya, the majority of which is genetically modified. I would like to say the good news here, in front of the public of this House, that scientific experiments have been carried out at the Faculty of Agriculture and Food Sciences of Széchenyi István University in Mosonmagyaróvár concerning the replacement of soya. I would like to announce that these experiments have resulted in a new feed ingredient that could completely replace the presence of import soy in feed by extracted rape, extracted sundials, maize gluten and DDGS. The price of these feed ingredients is lower than the price from the import soo, which is why it is also economically worthwhile for all of us. Thank you very much for your question, dear Congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-19-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. Where is the animal protection case? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-59	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today, in Hungary, it is possible that a professional hunter kills his dog in front of his master's eyes, and tens of thousands of people can throw away their pets without punishment, and it can happen that dogs and cats are killed with poisons or nails placed in animal food. The purpose of the MSZP is to put animal killers and animal torturers in prison. That is why we have also tabled legislative proposals and set up a working group on animal protection for this purpose. When we heard that you were working to tighten the law, we sent our proposals during the summer, in which, among other things, we proposed to tighten the criminal code and procedural laws, to change the way in which those who report animal torture should also be involved in the investigation and the cessation of criminal acts. We suggested that the animal should not be a thing in the Ptk., but that there should be another wording that makes the rights of animals more tangible. We have suggested that the animal protection warning system be rebuilt and recommended that a more differentiated, stricter punishment be given to animal torturers, animal killers. We think he's an accomplice to animal killers who's mute. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State that, while you promised to tighten up the legislation on animal rights, where the case was going, and whether there was anything going on in the case of responsible animal farming, the issue of animal protection should appear in training, educational institutions, curricula. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-09-19-60	Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-61	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Once again, we must state that there is a legitimate need for animal rights and good-natured citizens to be adequately protected. However, the problems are much more complex than the sound of the MSZP's proposal, but not leading to results, to raise the penalty line with a solution that would be easy to resolve. That's what civil society organisations say. At the beginning of April, the Ministry held consultations with civil society organisations and during the hearing it became clear that the primary objective of civil society organisations was to prevent effectively, i.e. avoid the need for anyone to torture or abuse animals. Organisations consider that the first and most important task in preventing and reducing animal harm is to establish the conditions of proper behaviour, training, education and responsible livestock farming. Another important task is to ensure that civil society organisations and public authorities can cooperate effectively. This is, therefore, the regulatory line that together could result in a better situation. As a result of the consultation, it was agreed that civil society organisations will make their proposals in working groups in line with these three issues, and this work has been going on ever since, and this work can be connected to, and they can be asked exactly where it is. Returning to criminal sanctions, the court can still impose enforceable imprisonment. That's a three-year limit. So rather, the circumstances of the application of the law, which are in line with the new legislation, may not have followed the social needs yet, and may be imposed if this is indeed justified. We must focus primarily on the protection of human life, and the protection of animals can be achieved in relation to this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-19-62	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "When will the sloppy water utility companies be counted? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the network was built with EU support in a significant area of Hungary. Unfortunately, the numerous complaints we have received suggest that during the investments a number of irregularities have occurred, such as the operation of the water utility companies involved in their implementation. The population involved in the construction of the sewer network has made a serious financial sacrifice to cover the costs of construction, and therefore they would rightly expect regular information from the water utility companies, transparent operation, but in many cases in vain. In this connection, let me point out that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior, Mr Hoffmann, asked the Water Management Boards by letter to pay particular attention to the investments made from the KEOP grant, since in most cases individual water utilities are delayed for various reasons, such as investments other than their basic activity, accounting for interest contributions collected. Let me mention a few cases: such as Kánycsond, Bükkönd, Kistelek, Baks, Simontornya, Jánoshalma - really just to list the last few examples. At the same time, it is also a fact that the government should facilitate the early completion of the channel investments, with additional support from the BM-Self-Self Fund to all municipalities in recent years. Thus, these improvements could have been achieved by 100% of central funding, i.e. only a fraction of the originally calculated public contributions were needed. However, the residents are not informed by the competent authorities and, in many cases, refuse to provide information on this. I ask: when will the sloppy water utility companies finally be accounted for, when will the authorities responsible for professional supervision take substantial action in these matters? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-19-64	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, one of the most commonly used methods for the implementation of municipal canal investments and urban canal investments was when a water utility company was established in the municipality. [[12.40]] This water utility company, although not operating as a company subject to the municipal law, is not subject to the regulations of the local government, but it does function a bit like a local government, because the inhabitants of the settlement, who are members of the local government, are, by virtue of the law, obliged to become members of such a company, can decide and decide at the meeting how much support is paid and what to use it for. When they reach the end of the investment, they must account for the population and hand over the claims and the remaining funds and assets to the municipality. It is true - and it is not necessarily only negligence that appears here - that in some of the water utility companies themselves in the company organization, in determining the self-esteem of the population, in addition to the restoration directly linked to the establishment of the water utility investment, they also calculate the construction of new roads in Hungarian in the retail payments, and if the members of the company accept this, they will act this way. Moreover, the condition of self-strengthening to municipalities is that there is no full cover for the investment, so the State, the Ministry of the Interior, provides for self-strength from the municipal self-strength fund in order to replace the lack of self-strength. So if the company has this, then virtually a double funding will be created here, but these can be called to account and returned not under the municipal law, or not on the traditional road, but unfortunately these can happen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all of them must be recovered by a unique route to the population. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-19-66	Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Advent human resources development? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-67	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I did not think my question would be so topical: we have just heard the news that one of your fellow Members' wives was supposed to have a search warrant. The curator of the South Békés Agricultural Producers Foundation is also related to György Simonka, because the Fidesz representative has appeared in several of his former companies. In principle, this foundation has developed human resources in South Peace for hundreds of millions of forints, but there are many questions. For example, how do you explain that this foundation has asked for simple health screenings, blood glucose measurements, blood pressure measurements, the same three Budapest kfts without a health profile, including Public Sector Ltd., which is a midwife at Mengyi Roland, to be offered in Pusztaottlaka, Cecén and Lajoskomárom - hundreds of kilometers from Békés County. Why do you think they didn't ask for a local medical contractor? In your opinion, what percentage is the probability that these three non-healthy Kft.s were selected from the thousands of health services that are present in Hungary? How do you explain that the professional capacity for the Human Resources Development Programme was entrusted to companies for HUF 88 million, or HUF 40,000 a day? And what do you think this assignment had to do with preparing interdisciplinary research teams TÁMOP 4.2.2D/15/1/CONV for international programmes in the field of basic research and targeted basic research at the Kodolány College? It is also important to know that a framework agreement has been concluded for the development of human resources for 1100 expert days for 125 million forints, of which 320 were marketing expert days. This date was 30 November 2015 and 31 December 2015. How do you think human resources were developed at advent? Is it necessary to develop human resources for 113 thousand forints/day at advent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The foundation related to György Simonka? Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-68	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-09-19-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[To Dr. Tamás Harangozó, next to Dr. Ákos Hadházy:]] I see that the cooperation between the LMP and the MSZP is already working perfectly, as you have agreed here before the speech. I'm guessing they've also clarified the exact wording of what needs to be said. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel. Mr. Zoltán Gőgös: Secretary of State! You should answer the question. Peter Cseresnyés: That's what he's doing!]] Interestingly, those who came to Parliament with the promise of independence of the LMP do nothing but consult with the Deputy Group leader of the Socialist Party here, in front of all of us, publicly, without concealing that the content of this speech was also created together. [[What about Simonka? When are you going to jail?]] I don't know if LMP voters voted for 2010 or 2014 [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: What's the answer?]] The LMP may be in agreement with the socialists, but it may be the credo of other representatives of you here in Parliament. As far as your questions are concerned, honourable Member, you know very well, because there have been a lot of press conferences on such issues, there has not been any public data that has not been linked to other public data on TÁMOPs, TIOPs and other EU funds, and what you would not have said about any amount being spent would not be corruption. If it was something high, he said it was corrupt; if it was something low, he said it was therefore irregular. Here too, you must not ask us, but the contracting authorities, so Cece's municipality, the municipality of Lajoskomarom. They also have public decisions made by the body of representatives, which you could study very well. But your goal is not to explore reality, but not to get a real answer to these questions you are asking, because then you would look at the local authorities' website and slam the solution from it, but your aim is obviously to continue the press conference series you have started and what has also put you in Parliament, therefore, in the wake of LMP's decision-making bodies. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, honourable Member, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the seventh part of the tender guide which you can learn about, the beneficiary is solely responsible for the proper conduct of the procurement procedures as contracting authority. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-70	Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister in the form of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent on the subject, by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who has already volunteered if I had not presented it. Let's hear the question first.
u2016-09-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In February, you promised grass trees when Kossuth Square was full of protestors during the educators' demonstrations that started from Miskolc. At the time, they also promised to give twice HUF 35,000 in remuneration to the teachers, technical workers, those with the lowest wage in the Hungarian education system. Many of them's net wages are just above this amount per month, since there is hardly any net over 70,000 forints. And then what was real? In fact, only technical staff working within the system of public institution maintenance, which assists in such education, received this pay supplement, and the others were left out, although that was not what the promises were about. Who, then, have left out? Obviously, those working among local government institutions, or, where appropriate, kindergarten nurses, maintenance workers, are really people who are willing to sacrifice for Hungarian education, for our children, but at the same time are in the most difficult line. If Fidesz and the government considered education a little important today in Hungary and the fate of technical workers, they would not be distinguished by what maintenance they are working under. The amounts needed for wage increases and wage supplements would otherwise be available in the budget, so a line could be created to support this. There are countless luxuries from which this could be financed for these workers. So the question is: do you really want to help technical workers who support education? Will they be given the promised salary supplement of HUF 35,000 twice, regardless of what maintenance they are working under, or will they continue to lie to them? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-19-72	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-09-19-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know it's a lot more than that, a lot more extra resources and a lot more benefits for staff and staff directly assisting the educational work in recent years. We thought that it was probably the teachers who needed to be offered the career, the greater respect that resulted from it, but we also tried to give others further opportunities to make progress. One of the most important parts of this, I think, is that next year's budget will spend 104 billion forints more on education as a whole than originally adopted this year. So no matter what kind of maintenance the congressman is talking about, there will be an extra HUF 104 billion next year, which we can spend on the staff there, but most importantly on the students. As of September 1, 2015, workers who are in the circle you mentioned, but who are educated as teachers, have entered the teaching career, and this has meant a much higher income for them. [[12.50]] Last year, Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre provided 50,000 forints, and twice this year it provided them with 35 thousand forints as an extra out-of-wage allowance. But this is not what I think is going to be a really important step forward, because these were one-year benefits, but the one-time surplus for all, which takes place on 1 January 2017 and which represents a 10% increase in wages. Seven percent of this is fixed, which everyone will receive from directly assisting the educational work, and three percent from which the wages of the better ones can be increased to a greater extent, in order to make this 3-percent free decision for the heads of the institutions. And I have to say that these wages have increased very well in education among teachers as well. For example, a teacher with a university degree in primary mathematics and physics has an income increase from HUF 226 thousand to HUF 346 thousand, while for a logopeist, the salary rose from HUF 147 thousand to HUF 215 thousand, and for a teacher from HUF 181 thousand to HUF 317 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-74	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why is the government not interested in saving Hungary's last iron factory? It's an address. Here.
u2016-09-19-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, If the factory lives, the city lives. In Dunaújváros this sentence has become a hotel since Dunaferr Zrt. Leaders reported mass redundancies years ago. At present, the threat has serious news, as hundreds of iron workers have been dismissed to this day, and this year the company has promised another 300 people's leave. The problem is therefore of national importance, as the company's 2014 balance sheet already showed a loss of HUF 21.1 billion. This figure shows how much danger the last bastion of domestic steel production is in danger. The maintenance of the iron works would therefore require government intervention, which has so far been replaced by sounds of promise. On 25 July, Minister Péter Szijjártó, who was in Dunaújváros, could face the problems personally from Sergei Gorkov, the CEO of Vynesekonombank, but we could not hear a concrete proposal for a solution. Jobbik has presented a package of solutions three years ago, in which it proposed that the government conclude a strategic partnership agreement with ISD Dunaferr Zrt., improving the employment situation in the region, promoting the training of future professionals and restoring cooperation with the Hungarian suppliers of ironworks. My personal goal, by saving the ironworks, is also to save my city, Dunaújváros, and to preserve the strategic domestic steel production. Therefore, three questions arise. Why the government was interested in destroying Hungary's last iron factory and why Dunaferr Zrt. was not interested. to save her? How does it help the company to survive if OTP acquires the Ukrainian financial institution Prominvest Bank of Velyeskonomomb? What will happen in the near future from Mr. Minister's promises in Dunaújváros, about the participation of ironworks in the development of Paks and the modernisation of Dunaferr? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-76	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés, responds. Here.
u2016-09-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that the government is interested in keeping the jobs at Dunaferr and that the Dunaferr will continue to work. I can say that, in the past period, he has taken and is now taking all measures to continue this way, so that Dunaferr can continue to provide work and work. The Ministry of National Economy will provide support and cooperation on employment issues by the end of 2017 within the framework of the labour market programme operated by OFA, so this can provide you with some guarantee that the sentence we have just said has a serious reality content. I would also like to point out that, although the region has been struggling in recent years, it is able to deliver significant results in the area of employment, since its unemployment rate has fallen from 8 percent in 2010 to 4 percent in 2016. Unfortunately, the financing of Dunaferr was also adversely affected by the conflict in Ukraine, and the company's competitiveness has been steadily reduced. On 25 July 2016, Minister Péter Szijjártó met Sergei Gorkov, the newly appointed President of the Velesekonombank. During the hearing, the Minister said that Hungary is interested in the further development of Dunaferr and in saving workers' jobs. He suggested that the Hungarian government would be willing to join the company, which could help normalise the financial and economic situation of Dunaferr. I would like to use this to justify my first sentence that I am interested in the Government's interest in maintaining the Danubeferr. The owners indicated that the situation of Dunaferr within the group is one of the better, so they are definitely interested in the development of the Hungarian ironworks. A good example of this is the transfer of the new iron furnace in July, which results in significant quality improvements for Dunaferr. I hope that these arguments, these facts, confirm that the government is doing everything in its power to allow the Danubeferr to continue its work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Does the Government see the problem and give the salary increase to all pre-retirement educators? It's an address. Congressman Ikotity has the floor. Here.
u2016-09-19-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the spring, the government made a clear promise to the educator society, promising that teachers who were about to retire would be automatically moved forward by the teacher II. Category A, which is, of course, subject to wage increases according to the career model. At the start of the school year, it turned out that the government had broken that promise. Under the relevant government regulation, those who had failed to participate in the rating procedure are excluded. Thus, those who have applied for a prior qualification procedure, but who have not uploaded their portfolio, may not continue to be punished by the teacher II. Category 1 and they will not receive the corresponding increase in wages. A total of 1323 teachers have been punished. According to the LMP, the government discriminates against these teachers, which is why we also turned to the Ombudsman, requesting his proceedings. In our view, by excluding those who had previously failed to participate in the qualification process from the automatic reclassification process, the government made it possible for the teacher II to do so without a qualification procedure. the transfer to Grade 1 of persons who, on 1 September 2016, had a period of seven years or less until the retirement age and until the full period of service required for the retirement pension, have been discriminated against. Dear Secretary of State, How is it possible to distinguish between teachers of the same age with the same knowledge? And for those who didn't upload a portfolio, even though they applied for the procedure, why are they punishing those who didn't apply for the procedure before, and they don't have to apply this year? Will the government correct its error, will they finally grant all teachers who are facing retirement to raise their wages? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-19-80	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-09-19-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The teacher's career system has many incentives for educators to continue training themselves and to educate students in the best possible capacity. Part of the teacher I. is the teacher II. step in step, and the important part of this is the acquisition of master's or other titles. Therefore, this also represents a significant financial step forward for all teachers. This is how we try to encourage people to take on more and more in the interests of children. Those who care more and better about children, and thus the performance of children is better, are paid higher than those who wish to do normal work on average. We hope that this will also improve the quality of education, as there is already room for recognition of quality. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In parallel with the round table for public education, there were public education forums across the country, and many people here suggested that, for those who are not many years ahead of the pension, we should keep this system, so, like the 30-40-year-old teachers, they should have an increase in salaries if they provide additional performance - because we are obviously willing to pay the teachers as much as possible - but we also expect additional performance for the surplus. Finally, on the round table of public education, it was agreed that there should be a circle of beneficiaries, who, for the exact reason of this additional payment, do not have to make any additional performance, for, say, 35 years of work, so there is no need to go through the qualification process. [[13.00]] That's why, as you said, 15,000 teachers have been reassigned. At the same time, as in the information material prepared on 21 June 2016, which the schools received through the Education Office, the title is that the results of the roundtable negotiations so far, this is in line with the news previously published on 12 May and other times, there was a part that those who launched the qualification process but did not successfully complete it, with them this increase is not automatic. In their case, what caused them to apply for the exam, but it didn't succeed, we're looking at it now, and we're looking at it now, whether it's because they themselves didn't perform well, or there was another reason behind it, and we're trying to find a fair solution for everyone. But that's how we dealt with 15,000 pre-retirement educators. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:, Shouldn't the NKHV be discarded? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-19-83	Thank you very much for the floor. On 1 April, you nationalised the fee for domestic waste shipments and created the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. From 1 April to the end of August, he was not able to send the previous quarterly bills to the population. We warned you this summer, and we were told to calm down. By the end of August, all residents will receive this bill. Well, a lot of people still haven't got the bill yet, and they should be sending out the next quarter. People in the country are rightly concerned about how two quarterly bills will be paid in 30 days. For a lot of families, it's going to be a burden. There's only one thing this company is doing better today: wasting money and spending money on itself. He rents himself an office downtown for 11 150 euros a month, which is 3.5 million forints. The average wage is HUF 410 thousand for those who work here, and 18 top mid-class vehicles are rented by public procurement. Let's calculate: if 58 people work here and hire 18 top middle-class cars, then every third person will be driving a high-end car at this company. One question, gentlemen, did anyone confuse passenger transport with garbage transport? 'Cause that's the only way I can imagine you getting those cars. That's why I'm asking: a state company placed in a monopoly position - the population cannot choose another service provider, because this is the only one - wouldn't it be normal for the government to take responsibility for this mistake? He created a company. The responsibility would be to release a quarterly bill to the public. Unable to send out, failed to perform the service, the minimum is to assume responsibility for it. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that NKHV is not a service provider, but a public service provider. The MSZP has visited the collapse on many occasions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only the MSZP collapsed.]] From 1 July 2006 this service will stop, it will happen, it will happen. Your claims, then and now, do not correspond to reality. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] Almost 70 percent of the accounts have already been received by consumers. The remaining 30 percent are being processed by printing or are being delivered by post. The NHKV has set a 15-day deadline for the payment of the fee, provides a slippery payment option and provides them with a deferred payment, so-called payment in instalments. By the way, I note that the negotiations also took place with Budapest's capital, and here, too, the next general meeting will be presented with the agreement. Since 1 April the public service plan has been drawn up, pre-financing of the service fee has started. The creation and implementation of the wealth register and the related proposals and developments are underway. The NHKV's own billing system is being developed continuously. A few months ago, you said that the shipments of waste did not work, so let's move quickly. Here are the quick steps. The restructuring of the waste management public service system has not yet been completed. The system is already operational. I'm asking you to stop deceiving the population and the policy you're trying to disturb me with. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members to indulge in loud, fluffy cheers, if possible, a little bit. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. While the Government tries with all its might to keep citizens from leaving the country with their address, while voting on behalf of the dead from our separated areas? It's an address. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2016-09-19-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the event of the death of a voter with no address in Hungary included in the register, i.e. from abroad or from other parts of the world, relatives should be asked to delete the register, otherwise the National Election Office will send him the current voting package for up to ten years, as the person does not have to register again for that long. Thus, a number of cases can be imagined where they can abuse the letter votes of dead voters. Thus, while Hungarians with a Hungarian address but living abroad can vote at foreign representations only with great difficulties due to the outrageous opposition of the ruling parties, they may vote unauthorized ten years after their death instead of those without a Hungarian address. This could undermine public confidence in the cleanliness of elections, especially in the light of the fact that the vast majority of the letter votes giving rise to these abuses were given to the governing parties in 2014. According to Jobbik, this regulation cannot be maintained for the 2018 elections. That can only be legitimate if Hungarian citizens who wish to participate have no address are registered separately. On this basis, I ask Mr. Secretary of State, since the introduction of dual citizenship, how many Hungarian citizens without a Hungarian address have their relatives reported the death of the person to the Hungarian authorities. Does the government intend to amend the law on electoral proceedings on the basis of what has been said? If the law is left unchanged, do you think that the purity of future elections can be fully guaranteed? Finally, do you consider it right and fair that, while the government and the governing parties are trying to keep those who leave the country away from the urns, they can vote on behalf of the dead from our ripped areas? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-88	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[The notary seat is occupied by László Földi.]]
u2016-09-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the context of the first question, I indicate that the Ministry does not have any information on the number of persons with no address in Hungary who have reported the death of that person, as according to the Act on Election Procedure, the National Election Office will remove from the central register the person who died or who lost his right to vote. So there's no departmental jurisdiction here. If there are proposals for changes, then, of course, the governing parties are open to this. For the record, this is a two-thirds law, so the five-party agreement is absolutely necessary. If they can make practical and safer proposals, we can discuss them. On the fourth question, I can say that the distinction contained in the regulation is justified because if the law provided for a wide range of voters the possibility of voting in a letter, it could give rise to abuse. Let's see what happened in neighboring Austria recently! It cannot be verified at all that anyone who declares that he will be staying abroad will indeed be staying there, so they could make a statement without consequences that would jeopardise the purity of the election. In relation to the vote in the letter, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that the contested legislation does not affect, therefore it does not restrict the right to vote, the exercise of fundamental rights, the technical rule determining the manner of voting does not exclude Hungarian citizens residing abroad, they can vote at foreign representations, they can return home, as in previous legislation, and as is regulated in most EU states. It is important to note that in the case of voters residing in Hungary, the relationship is much more direct and stronger than those who acquired citizenship as foreign Hungarians, so that this method of voting can be maintained in a more intensive relationship. Thank you for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: When will the report of the Rio Olympics be made public? It's an address. Member István Ikotity will speak on behalf of interpelliers. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.10]]
u2016-09-19-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the LMP, we would like to thank again the athletes who represented our country in the Rio Olympics. We should be proud of our team. We have recently learned from Minister János Lázár in the government that the government has already listened to Tünde Szabó's assessment of our performance in Rio. Since the government is out of control in the development of Hungarian sports, focusing primarily on Olympic sports and competition sports, we consider it particularly important that the tax forints we give them be accounted for in detail, both the EMMI and the MOB. Therefore, our question to the government is when the report will be made public, with specific data and cost accounting. We believe it is equally important for the government to tie the support of professional associations to expectations of effectiveness. We were pleased to hear, therefore, that they would start negotiations with the professional associations of the major sports sectors in order to improve sport life more effectively. The LMP supports this idea. Let us be clear: are the associations responsible for the public funds entrusted to them? Is professional work effective? How much goes to executive salaries, rewards, representation, operational operations? Did the sports base expand? Have emphasis been placed on the development of recreational sport? And what kind of subcontractors do you work with? We call on the Government, since it considers sport to be a national matter, to make the conciliation process with sports associations public and to involve experts from opposition parties. My question is: will they make the report public, and when will they make it public? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-19-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to join both awards. I think that this summer, everyone who watched the football-Eb or the Olympics saw those successes must have felt very good, and this good feeling, this pleasant sense of belonging, thanks to the athletes, their perseverance, their diligence, their talent, who really achieved excellent results in the Olympics and before that in the football-Eb. On behalf of the government, we thank you, Mr President, for your words of appreciation, in which you said that the Hungarian Government is trying to give support to sport, both for sport and for sport. Obviously, there is a connection between the two, whether in replacements or role models. So this is what the government wants to continue to do. Indeed, thanks to these two major international competitions this summer, sport has become a real national business, as you said, so I hope that this will ease the debates on this issue and make the goals much more massive. The proposal that you have made, by the way, would, in some respects, endanger sports associations or sectors with great tradition; obviously you do not want it; it may have been a misunderstanding. At the same time, the government has not just started consultation with the sports associations, for 16 priority sports, it has been under way for years because of the support, and for the remaining 20 sports involved in catching up, there has been continuous, close cooperation for years. The Hungarian Olympic Committee is obviously the top organ of the Olympic preparation, and the money is also the owner, so in addition to the negotiations, their support is obviously linked to high-quality professional programmes, as has been the case so far. These reports and programs are on their websites. The professional report will be provided by the Olympic Committee on the Olympic Olympics, and sports associations will always post their accounts as public interest data on their websites, so that is where the Member can learn about them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: what about the developments in Zala County? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Mr János Lázár, the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Nándor Csepreghy. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-09-19-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am asking this question because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has visited all 23 county seats and has promised improvements that are very important to cities with county rights. So Zala was also in Nagykanizsa and Zalaegerszeg, and there he promised various developments, which we opposition politicians were very happy about, because I think it is very important to solve the problems that are experienced either in Zala county or in a city with other county rights. So my question is, what about the improvements promised in Zala County? In Zalaegerszeg, in particular, there was a promise that could certainly have helped the people who lived there. For example, I would like to underline that you promised HUF 5.4 billion hospital development until 2018 - I think this could have been very important for all Zala counties - twice a two-track road connecting road 76 and motorway M7, which would also have been completed by 2018. In the same way, Nagykanizsa has promised grants that would have been important, such as the creation of a new industrial park, the construction of a southern bypass road, and the development of a multifunctional sports and event hall, a variety of conference and event centres in the city centre. As a result, I think that both cities with county rights would have had very important developments. In the meantime, we have been told that this will not be financed from Hungarian sources, as the Prime Minister promised, but that there will be a need for different European resources, and perhaps from European Union sources this programme, which was announced in county-righted cities, can be implemented. My question, then, is whether these developments are actually happening and whether they really only want to devote EU funds to this. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer - as I mentioned in the introduction - will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-97	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to talk about one of the most important rural programmes of the government, the programme of modern cities. You have advanced the Prime Minister's future actions because you have only visited 19 cities with 23 county rights, but the remaining four cities, Salgótarján, Szeged, Győr and Hódmezővásárhely will take place throughout the year. For the programmes, the total cost of investments is expected to be around HUF 1700 billion. These include, in part, investments in cities with county rights which do not have motorways, which do not connect to motorways, which are connected to this network; a development package that develops industrial parks among others, and which includes a number of investments that can improve the quality of life of people living in specific settlements, such as Zalaegerszeg or Nagykanizsa, whether or not we are talking about investments in health or social care systems. In the case of Zalaegerszeg, however, another government decision was also taken to establish a test track for the automotive industry to serve autonomous, so-called self-driving cars and test their operation. This is important for Hungary because there is no such investment compared to Hungary in a 500-mile radius, despite the fact that three or four major automotive manufacturers are present in Hungary. This is an investment of 40 billion, for which the municipality made a supportive decision last Thursday and authorised the mayor to sign the necessary supporting document. However, funding of HUF 1700 billion is partly from the EU budget and partly from the domestic budget. When the Prime Minister signed these agreements for specific projects, the government did not determine that this was an EU or budgetary resource. It has guaranteed that this investment must be carried out in any event. The competent wallets have the task of financing these investments by taking into account the country's budgetary interests, i.e. always in the most optimal financing structure. I can therefore confirm that the programmes undertaken by the Prime Minister will be implemented at all times in the time limits set there. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik's main objective is to have a kind of representation in the Parliament in most areas of youth and to raise the problems of youth and make proposals for solutions. I have spoken several times recently about the situation of traineeships. [[13.20]] Although progress has been made since then thanks to the introduction of dual training, many problems that make it difficult for thousands of students to cope remain unsolved. However, the most common problem is that, instead of really gaining useful knowledge from trainees, employers often only employ students with their own benefits in mind, in many cases not exactly professional work. We could tell legends about what kind of photocopying, coffeemaking, and other things they hire interns for. In addition, almost all institutions are indiscriminate in carrying out or checking the quality of the exercises, not to mention professionalism, the possibility of evaluating the place of practice, and encouraging workplaces created by employers. In short, there are many problems and improvements in the area. We could also continue with a series of problems affecting students with infringements of trainees, for which a number of examples could be mentioned. In addition, the level of mandatory remuneration that many consider ridiculously low remains an unclear issue. By browsing job advertisements, you can see that employers expect years of work experience and do not count on the traineeships they have completed within the course, so it is not easy to find a job. In conclusion, unfortunately, we cannot see any progress in the situation of traineeships. This affects many tens of thousands of young people each year, which is why it would be essential for the government to take the necessary steps to eliminate the current mistakes that help young people, but also employers. Dear Secretary of State, So I ask why no action has been taken to remedy the problems surrounding traineeships. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, the beginning of your speech indicates exactly what the government has done; here, at the end, it has used phrases as if nothing had happened, while dual training is precisely a very good and successful tool for the government, which has been introduced by this government. There is now dual training for 46 majors: agricultural, technical, economic, scientific and IT courses; now 2600 training places for young people to learn in dual training. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] which, in my opinion, means that, in addition to theoretical knowledge, they are constantly experiencing in parallel in a workplace - for which they are also paid - it is called precisely a student's work fee during the training period - the activity that they will have to perform later. The problem that you're saying, and everyone else is saying that in many cases, a career beginner is not hired because he has no practice, it's a solution like that. This, as well as other measures taken by the government, has resulted in a fall in youth unemployment from 25 percent to 13 percent. This is obviously part of the job protection action plan and other internships. But this dual training system has already involved 500 - half a thousand companies, which now provide students with additional opportunities during the training period, and you know very well that a good part of the students who are in the employers' dual education will remain there, too. Not only do they no longer need training, but they don't need job search time, zero days, because they're being held there because they've worked and this system is working well. This, I'm telling you, is at 2,600 training places right now, but we're confident that this will rise even higher. I would like to draw your attention to the strengthening of labour law protection, as we have amended the Government Decree on the institution of student employment contracts, so that students involved in the training process are more secure and the Office of Education has included in its tasks the register of professional training places linked to higher education courses, including higher education institutions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] examination of his professional training places - this is also a help for all higher education students. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Can Imre Nagy's lawsuit be destroyed? Will the Government protect our national memory? It's an address. The question is presented by Mr István Ikotity, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The National Archives of the Hungarian National Archives are also being expunged from its current location because of Viktor Orbán's move to Castle. We now allow the LMP to consider the move of government bodies to the Castle to be an extremely expensive and megalomaniac plan, to deal with the valuable file of the archives, what will be the unique collection of more than 70,000 meters of documents, which includes the age documents from Rákóczi-era documents through the guild catasters. The Fidesz-KDNP government seems to consider it so important to preserve these memories that it temporarily assigned them a moldy and humid, Daróczi street property, which, if anything, is completely unfit to store vulnerable documents. It's like they're trying to destroy these documents on purpose. The LMP has already spoken about the irresponsible transport of documents, but at that time we received a meaningless reply from the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, that he would then be provided with protective packaging and protection of these materials. However, as of June 17, the archives were suspended because the administrative authorities also indicated that the temporary warehouse was seriously damaged. So far, the documents have been packed here and there - what will happen to them now? We don't know what's behind this story, maybe it's a delusion of grandeur, maybe it's serious irresponsible or a complete lack of competence, maybe three, but it doesn't change the point: our national memory has been compromised, and we need to act immediately. Now that important historical documents have begun to include mold, what does the government do? Are the documents of the nationalizations, the documents of the Imre Nagy trial, the 56 lawsuits or the full archive of the MSZMP saved? Will the government protect our national memory? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can reassure you, honourable Member, that these documents are in no danger at all, their storage is safe. Allow me to clarify some of what you said. This is about one of the sites of the Hungarian National Archives, from which these documents are transferred, fully professionally and prepared, this is the institutional unit under the 6th Holy Trinity Square. Of the 84,000 documents, it does not concern 70,000, as you said, but 18,000 documents, and of course there are no guilds or documents from the Rákóczi era, these are fresher documents that are being transferred. I don't know why you're talking about molding, Congressman, there's been no relevant news of any kind of molding, and there was no such thing, because it never happened. At the new site of Daróczi, the preparation of the site started in good time before the documents were delivered. Obviously, the various works, whether done by painting or other works required by the legislation for the storage of the documents, were then dried out after the painting, and as soon as they were dried up, the documents began to be delivered there. These climatic conditions are constantly being examined, in one case only after the summer rains the humidity was high, but this is obviously not due to internal but external circumstances, but, in accordance with the staff protection recommendation of the Archives College, it is constantly being examined whether these conditions, these climatic conditions, exist. They have been appropriate all along, and in no case has a higher than permitted value been measured. So on the Daróczi road, this part of our national memory, the 18,000 meters of documents, will be in the right place, and we trust that later we will learn as much as possible from your research on XX. The history of the century. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister: Congressman Zsolt has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]]
u2016-09-19-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, In Miskolc, and even throughout Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, the major governing party is at a moral low point. It is enough to read the national press reports in this area, to monitor the cases surrounding the Fidesz Kriza Ákos, Mayor of Miskolc. We are now at the point that there is also a court order that the local power of the ruling party lied about the leader of the Jobbik faction in Miskolc that, in connection with the Salkaházi programme, he said that pensioners only want to party and can be bought for ten thousand forints. The head of the Miskolc faction never said that, because of this obvious discrediting campaign, he filed a complaint, which resulted in a final ruling by the court. In this sense, the Miskolc Diary, operating as the mouthpiece of the Kriza city administration, was condemned by the court and required correction. We therefore have the right to ask what is the situation with general media linked to the government: is it morally appropriate to send a message to Brussels with public money in a condemned paper? [[13.30]] What should the Miskolcs now believe Fidesz and the Miskolc Journal, your other media? Is Fidesz so afraid of Jobbik in Miskolc that without professional arguments, Fidesz tries to stop the opposition party from growing stronger with ordinary lies? Is this a responsible Christian attitude worthy of leadership? I look forward to your honored answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Whoo! A voice from the ranks of the MSZP: Little Goebbels.]]
u2016-09-19-109	Honourable Congressman, We do not want to comment on the question of the government's boundless fear of Jobbik, but I will try to reconcile what he wanted to ask with his otherwise thinly related statements. The Miskolc Journal has nothing to do with the government, as I believe it is a local newspaper, a local newspaper. [[Dr. László Varga: Where only pro-government news is produced. Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Why you turn to the government about a local disagreement and a correction, to be honest, we do not understand it very well, especially as you have mentioned, that the procedure has already been terminated locally. But while we're here, as far as the responsibilities and disbelief of individual media are concerned, if you have such concerns, you should contact your own party in the first place. Why am I saying this? Jobbik's party foundation is funding a portal, and you must know it. [[György Szilágyi: Let's talk about the Habony Media.]] There was a month when this portal had to report four corrections in one month. Whether another portal, the Kurucz.infót here, can be listed in this circle, I must admit, I don't know; a few months ago it must have belonged to Jobbik. Jobbik also has a weekly paper, as the decisive part of the revenue of the company that issues the weekly paper in question comes from Jobbik's party foundation. In the newspaper used as the mouthpiece of the party, your party president was also the owner, but even his wife and sister-in-law. Honourable Congressman, If you would like answers to local disputes, please contact local editorial offices or local authorities. And if you feel the urge to act on the independence of the press, please start your work on the better media mentioned above. I wish you every success in this work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interview from Jobbik's benches: Long live TV2! Long live Árpád Habony! Dr. László Varga: The problem is that it is financed by public funds, Mr. Secretary of State.]]
u2016-09-19-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the questioning period. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you not act against the hundreds of billion-dollar benefits of settlement bonds by private companies and fidesz buddies, and in a few years the Hungarian taxpayers will have to repay this huge amount with interest? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the Minister's identity, or whether he is personally expecting an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2016-09-19-111	I do not accept the Minister's identity.
u2016-09-19-112	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Nándor Gúr, a notary of the Parliament, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you tolerate fearsome practices in people that have already allowed the establishment of 16,000 foreign residents, including convicted Russian criminals, to sell the security of Hungary for money? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the notary whether he accepts or waits for the Prime Minister's presence.
u2016-09-19-113	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry you had to hear the answer to that question over time, but allow me to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-114	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What else? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the Vice-President as a responder or wait for the President to be present in Parliament.
u2016-09-19-115	Thank you. I'd rather ask Mr. President what else is going to happen, so I'll wait for him, with respect. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-116	Thank you very much. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General's Office an immediate question:. Election fraud in Terézváros and Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-19-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, During the 2014 municipal elections there was election fraud in Terézváros. It turns out that in at least 148 cases, the former Schmuck party used data from other nominating organisations, i.e. Fidesz recommendations. Even the booking of recommendation sheets was moaning. As far as we know, in nearly two years of investigation, only the president of the forgery organization was heard by the authorities. In the capital, Schmuck's party set up independent candidates in several districts. Almost everywhere they received spectacularly, even by magnitude, less votes than recommendations. It can be assumed that not only in Terézváros but also elsewhere - such as VIII, XI. or XIX. In the district - they had to resort to fraud to achieve their goal so that they could run for office against the joint democratic opposition candidate. In any such district - like Teresa City - Fidesz was probably the cooperating partner who provided the data of his own sympathizers so that they could influence the results of the elections. The electoral law gave us the opportunity to do so by not having to verify all the recommendations submitted, in particular the authenticity of the signatures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I ask you: what do you do to eliminate fraud that has become possible by law, especially in order to prevent it? Will you initiate an amendment to the electoral law? What do you do to detect fraud exposed solely by the Socialists of Terézváros in order to restore local public confidence? Thank you for your reply.
u2016-09-19-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer, I give the floor to the Attorney General Peter Polt, whom I very much welcome.
u2016-09-19-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the case referred to by you, BRFK's Department of Anti-Corruption and Economic Crime investigates the 2014 municipal elections. This investigation was last extended by the prosecutor's office until January 2017. As you said, there is a reasonable suspicion. So far, two individuals who may have been involved in this crime have been identified. One of them has passed away in the meantime, but the other one's identity is being discovered. Let us hope that this will succeed. In other districts, as you have indicated, there is no investigation, given that the complaint and all other relevant data are limited to this district alone. For the record, not only did you press charges, but others did. She is also constantly informed of this matter, since only the Member has asked me 17 written questions in this matter, others even three, including the part of public law. In the public-law section, the D.A. does not have powers that could be used in this case. This may be the job of the legislator, if you find it so. As regards the elections in Budapest, parliamentary elections, one of the written questions of the congresswoman was assessed as a complaint, but there was no suspicion of a crime, so according to the decision delivered to you, the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office rejected this complaint on 16 September. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-120	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by István Tiba.]]
u2016-09-19-121	Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Let us also make it clear that you know that you are responding to me not because it is your duty in the house rules, but because the police investigation found that there was mass fraud here, and during the interrogations it was revealed that the Fidesz citizens, the right-wing citizens, had consistently and consistently claimed that they had given their recommendation to Fidesz and not to the Social Democratic Party. Look, two weeks before the government's self-proclaiming referendum, it doesn't matter how reliable the Hungarian prosecutors are, so I ask you again, Mr. Attorney General, what you intend to do before 2 October to carry out these investigations in public, and what you do to restore confidence in the Quaestor case, the NVI case and the bald people - but I could even mention the MNB case - and not only in public confidence but also in public confidence in the public prosecutor's office in Hungary in relation to election fraud in Terézváros. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is for the Attorney General. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-123	It would be difficult to answer all the cases listed in a minute, but since you've mentioned the Quaestor case, it's in court, so I think it's a real investigative success and an indictment success. And as far as this case is concerned, hopefully we'll find out what happened in it, and the perpetrators, if they're identified, may also be brought to justice. For the record, so far, 152 false signatures, more specifically false data, could be identified, and this was done by someone who got the reference sheet, copied the names, and then signed them. So this could have been about the course of the crime. So the unsub is not 152 people, but probably much less. Of course, these 152 aren't even sure it's a permanent number. I'll make sure we get to the bottom of this. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2016-09-19-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why doesn't the Government do anything to increase the wages of Hungarians working? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Leader whether he accepts or waits for the Prime Minister's presence.
u2016-09-19-125	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Less in mind, everything by force?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman points out that she accepts the person who is responding, that the metacommunication is alive, that it is the voice of the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The OECD's Screenscape on Education revealed that Hungary is the last among OECD member countries to have the percentage of education spent on education. After 2010, the OECD has shown that the share of the amount spent on education has decreased, so it is not only because Hungary spends less on education because it is already a poorer country, but it is also about the last place in existing GDP in terms of how much we spend on education. The OECD average is 5.2 percent and the Hungarian expenditure is 3.8 percent. During the period under investigation, Hungary produced the largest decrease and the largest decrease in the amount of resources per student could be the country's. Nevertheless, the reason for the State's reservation was that it was the municipalities that did not spend enough money on their educational institutions and then, if schools were to be maintained by the State, it would equalise and provide the right money. That's not how it happened, Mr. Secretary, it's clear from this series of data. On the other hand, Zoltán Györgyi wrote in his OFI paper that the relationship between centralization and knowledge results is very loose, and this is also clearly seen from the PISA results. In connection with the transformation of the same districts, he wrote that it is not possible to see a well-thought-out organisational structure, without proper mechanisms, to achieve meaningful goals. Dear Secretary of State, The numbers show and the experts say that your concept of education is flawed. Are they willing to change that, and what else needs to happen, what data do we need to learn to see that they are wrong and are not on the right track? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He did not say in his speech that the OECD worked on this report from 2013 data at the time, and this is the year when the pedagogical career began in Hungary, so from 2012 to 2013 we spent HUF 32 billion more on education than in the year before; the following year, in the year of the big introduction, when the increased salary was already full year and the large increase, we spent HUF 120 billion more in 2014 than in the previous year; and I could continue on how, by HUF 34, 38 billion, we increased the framework for education wages year after year, and this will continue to increase in the next year. In fact, if you look at the total amount of education, you will spend 104 billion forints more on education next year than before. Indeed, there was a downstory of education when the socialists even took away the 13th month's salary - this meant more than HUF 78 billion withdrawal from education - but there were a few years, two years, the last two socialist governments, when the funding of education decreased by 17 percent in proportion to GDP, and it was possible to start climbing up again from 2013 onwards, as the Hungarian economy has now generated the surplus from which we were able to put money into education for the first time. The first area in which we launched a career is the first area where the budget has taken on a very significant additional resource in order to really start a career on that track and to make a substantial increase of at least 50 per cent on average for those working in the sector, that was precisely education, because we said that this should be the first thing to be dealt with. Even to bring in other OECD findings, precisely so that there would be enough people to sign up, so that there would not be a teacher shortage, so we launched the Klebelsberg Scholarship so that we could encourage as many people as possible to be on the teaching field. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-19-131	Dear Secretary of State, The questions raised in the second part of my speech, i.e. how nationalisation and its functioning, have not been answered at all, so please do so for one minute at your disposal. My comparison, this set of figures, was a cost-to-GDP ratio; that is, how much of the existing cost is spent on education. At the time of Viktor Orbán's government, Hungary was last ranked among the OECD countries in 2013. In the period 2010-13, there were also countries that increased expenditure, despite the fact that no country was able to produce good economic indicators, and Hungary's GDP increased during that period. GDP has therefore increased and, despite this, they spent less on education in 2013 than they did in 2010, so they have reduced resources compared to the starting point. I also ask you to give your opinion on the malfunction of structural changes. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The one-minute answer is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-133	Thank you very much. I do not think either of us wants to go to mathematics, but, honourable Member, if the socialists have reduced the amount of education that can be used in addition to a declining GDP, that means that less has been given in terms of proportion. So they gave me double. While, in our time, GDP growth has finally started and we have given much more as an additional resource to education every year than GDP growth. And you can't say many countries, Congresswoman, which in the last four years gave teachers a 50 percent wage increase. You don't find many of these. Obviously, we had a reason to do this in Hungary, because we had a month's wage taken, we had to make up for it, and beyond that, we added much more to the wages of teachers, but there is not much to find in Europe another country where there was such a degree. When I looked at it, there were perhaps two countries with a similar rate of teachers' wages as in Hungary. As far as the structure of the reservation is concerned, honourable Member, the capacity of the municipalities in Hungary has been enormously different, including the stable fundingability of schools within the country. This had to be stopped, so we had to put a stable financial background behind schools everywhere, and the state was able to offer this in Hungary, not in the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-09-19-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP faction, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister, for the fulfilment of an urgent public task, Mr János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to reply. I respectfully ask Madam Group leader whether she accepts or waits for the Prime Minister's presence. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-09-19-135	Yeah, I'll take it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Not so long ago, public opinion has been confronted with the fact that, for a long time, the free trade agreement between the US and the EU, Canada and the EU is being prepared in complete secrecy, behind people's backs, involving multinational companies. [[13.50]] In many cases, the LMP has drawn attention to the fact that these conventions are designed to break down barriers to the free movement of capital and to make the rich countries even richer and poor countries even poorer. Both conventions pose a threat to food safety, GMOs, environmental standards, the current level of human rights and labour rights guarantees in Europe, as well as anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures. CETA is as dangerous as TTIP, so to speak, the horse of the Trojan horse. It also includes the slightly modified form of the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, the investment court system. Multinational companies may continue to sue governments if they believe that their profits are being compromised by the level of health, food safety or environmental rules in a given country. On 5 July, the European Commission presented the EU-Canada Free Trade Convention to the Member States for ratification. I would like an answer, yes or no. Does the government support a common EU objective in CETA to abandon the zero tolerance principle of GMOs? Does the government support the anti-democratic investment court system in CETA? Will the government take action against temporary entry into force? Last but not least: does the Government support the ratification of CETA by the Hungarian Parliament?
u2016-09-19-136	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-19-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to begin by saying that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has asked the parliamentary faction of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and the Christian Democratic People's Party at our joint group meeting in early September to initiate the debate in Parliament on free trade agreements as soon as possible. We did so because, after a long debate, the European Council, contrary to the original decision of the European Commission, was the first of the free trade agreements to transform the Canadian and European Union agreements on the basis of the European Council's decision to require national ratification. It is well known before the LMP faction and before the Member, that the European Commission has done everything it can to ensure that no national ratification takes place but that an automatic procedure following the negotiations takes effect. So the question of whether we believe that Parliament's approval is necessary is that we find Parliament's approval inevitable. Viktor Orbán, at the Cooperation Forum of Prime Ministers, at the European Council, demanded, together with others, that the agreement be ratified by national parliaments, contrary to the original intention of the European Commission. I believe that this will also be a sufficient guarantee to establish a position. As far as our general approach is concerned, since the same issues arise in connection with both free trade agreements in part, I can tell you that we want Parliament to establish its position first, which will oblige the government, because we believe that national ratification is necessary in both cases and that without it, agreements cannot even be applied temporarily. This is the government's position, and the government will stick to Parliament's position. Of course, many of the government's partners in Germany and Europe argue for the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement, saying that there may be serious economic interests involved. However, the government is subject to Parliament's decision. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-138	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder for the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-139	Thank you very much. And I, Mr Secretary of State, would like to draw your attention to the fact that more and more states in Western Europe are taking sides against TTIP and CETA. At the same time, the LMP welcomes the Government's intention to have a debate on this, even because we see that the public protest in Europe is only increasing. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, last Saturday in Germany, 320 000 people went out on seven sites to protest TTIP and CETA and 25 000 people in Austria. Today, nearly a hundred Hungarian NGOs wrote a letter to the government calling on the government to distance itself from both TTIP and CETA, i.e. they do not recommend that the Hungarian Parliament ratify the CETA later. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-140	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-19-141	Thank you very much. I would just like to emphasise that the Government is asking Parliament to take a general position on both matters or even on agreements of this type, because we believe that the Government should represent this legislative act, this legislative position in these debates. When the government meets economic partners in Western Europe or at home, many of them, once again, draw attention to the benefits and benefits of the agreement. I personally share her concerns and agree with the concerns of the LMP in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Does the new school cooperative model work? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The Member indicates that he accepts Mr Péter Cseresnyés as a State Secretary. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the spring session, the Parliament adopted a bill amending the laws relating to individual student cooperatives. This was necessary, since on average 200,000 students in Hungary do some occasional work every year, and a significant part of them do so in the framework of student and school associations. The aim of the proposal was to put new rules on working by students on a new basis and to provide a new legal framework for the functioning of school cooperatives engaged in the organisation of such activities. This was necessary only because some of the abuses that have become known and there is an ongoing development in the house of student cooperatives, which has required stricter regulation. It is worth bringing here the series of frauds at the centre of which Csaba Czeglédy, an ambitious and ambitious politician of the MSZP in Szombathely, stands. This has also become timely because, as far as we know, the National Bureau of Investigation has already started investigating the case. Otherwise, the act is not without precedent, since the two former leaders of the Copernicus School Association were accused of the crime of fiscal fraud in the prosecution's indictment at the end of June 2015 causing a financial disadvantage of around HUF 550 million, and in violation of the accounting order. In the past, the proceedings were initiated because of a significant tax debt in several co-operatives also linked to Csaba Czeglédy, Cooperitas, the Rébusz School Association and the Studentka Work School Association, leaving a significant tax liability. But fortunately, the new regulation aims to provide framework and additional rights for students. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether, in view of the above, the new stricter regulation has been beneficial for students in a positive way and in terms of reducing abuse, what are the first experiences. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-09-19-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, If I wanted to answer your question briefly, I'd have to say it looks like it worked. The school cooperative system itself and the amendments that took place after the spring debate, took place after the parliamentary debate, confirm this and prove this. [[14.00]] If I may, I would like to say a few thoughts on what changes have been made and what results can be expected. Most importantly and most importantly, those who had passive rights in a higher education institution have not yet been able to work in a school cooperative, can now do so after the change, so they do not fall out of the world of work. This solves an old problem, because it is the primary objective and task of the school associations to introduce students, young people who want to work in addition to their day studies, into the world of work, so that they can actually provide them with an easier transition from the world of learning to the world of work. Another change that was very important was that, as a practical place, the work carried out in the school cooperative could not count on students' studies. This change now provides this opportunity. So if the student does the school cooperative work in the right place, in this case he can account for the practice, the school recognises it as a practice. The amendments were also necessary because in several cases the European Union did not understand what this form of union was, and it had to be explained, and some amendments had to be explained to them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hopefully, in the next period, after there is evidence of this, they will understand this and have a more positive approach to school cooperatives. I'll continue with the rejoinder. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-147	Thank you very much. I am also pleased with Mr Secretary of State's reply because it promises that I can say, probably on the part of the government and the faction, that the faction would like to continue to deal positively with student associations. It would monitor developments for two reasons, since, on the one hand, student work is becoming more and more important, and it will be very important to appreciate the work of our young people. There is no room for adventurers, no room for abuse, even if they are connected to any party or the MSZP. On the other hand, we would like to continue a mission with this, because youth unemployment is a problem throughout Europe, and we would like to take this Hungarian Hungaricum to Europe in essence, to show how it is possible to tackle the unemployment of young people in Europe, otherwise with a significant state aid, how to improve a system that is working better and better in Hungary. We provide all the support from the faction, and we ask that the government take the same approach to student associations. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2016-09-19-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to show by number that there is a significant result of the employment of students in terms of youth unemployment or employment, because in 2010, when the unemployment rate was close to 30% for young people and young people under the age of 25, this has been reduced to 13 percent, among other things, thanks to this school cooperative movement, and their employment has increased inversely, the employment of young people and young people under the age of 25 has increased significantly. Thus, as has already been said, nearly 120 to 130 000 young students can work in the school cooperative system, and it seems that in the debate with the European Union, for example, we can get serious help from Poland. And that's what you mentioned about the cases of abuse that you didn't belong to. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In any event, it would be a good thing if, in the course of the specific legal procedure, the judicial measures or judgments that may be necessary after the finding were taken. Hopefully, the school cooperative system will be purified and will continue to function cleanly, as it has done most of the time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å Why do you distinguish between two identical medals, two equally successful ones? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-09-19-151	I'll take it.
u2016-09-19-152	Thank you very much. Mr László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was the end of the 2016 Rio Paralympic, an opportunity for me to congratulate all medalists, because in addition to waiting, they expected 10 medals from our paralympics, after all, they won 18 medals from the Hungarian delegation, but I would also congratulate all the 43 members of the delegation and the professional staff. I think what you've achieved is a very big success. A public debate on their performance started on a very important issue, the reward of paralympics, the question of their reward. I am very sad about the fact that no progress has been made on this issue in recent weeks, that is to say, why paralympics receive only half as many rewards after success as their intact fellow athletes. In 2008, they received the same amount of reward during the governance of the MSZP, in 2012 their reward fell to 70 percent, and only 50 percent of the remaining members of this Olympics. Not only has there been a political debate on this issue, but the National Federation of Limited Movements has also protested in this regard; we agree with them. At first, it seemed to me that this objection might make sense and change their decision. The government has the opportunity to modify it, it would have the opportunity to give them a full reward, but this has not happened, and they have even communicated in the last few weeks. I think the question is given; it is not possible to distinguish between two similar achievements, medals, success. So a country awaits a change in their decision and when to give the same reward to the Paralympics after their success as their intact fellow athletes. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-09-19-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for a two-minute answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can all congratulate everyone on their achievements in the Olympics, the Paralympics, football-Eb during the summer. I think the fact that in the public media not only the Olympics, but also the paralympics, it shows precisely that this government is trying to give the same weight to sports performance, tries to demonstrate as much as possible what human performance they can perform in the paralympics and congratulate our gold medalist, silver medalist, bronze medalist athletes alike. With regard to the issue of reward, honourable Member, if we look around the world, we cannot find uniform rules, there are different practices of rewarding Olympics and paralympics from one country to another. In Sweden, Luxembourg and Iceland, for example, there is no reward for Olympic or Paralympic tournaments athletes. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] In Denmark, the Paralympics receive 50 percent, in Bulgaria 20 percent, in Lithuania 15 percent. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is also worth knowing the origin of the Hungarian legislation, Member. The amount of recognition was established on the basis of a sports professional proposal drawn up in 2013 by the Hungarian Olympic Committee for Disabilities, agreed with the sports associations and sports organisations concerned, aimed at increasing public support for disabled people's sport rather than reward. The government adopted and did not change the rules proposed and supported by the sport industry, took over the sectoral proposal at 100% and provided a higher amount of support for the preparation of athletes. The regulation has been reviewed twice since the entry into force of the regulation, and the social consultations held during the review did not create a need for change in this area, and the MOB, which carries out the relevant civil interest and sporting tasks, agreed on the content of the Government Regulation. Obviously, there is a difference between the two racing systems in the Olympics and the Paralympics, but even within the Olympics there is a differentiation for intact athletes; for example, there is another amount for those who stand on the podium in individual numbers, in doubles competitions or in team games. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of athletes allowed to compete in disabled sports is not comparable to the number of athletes in intact sports. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I'm going to continue from here. I'm sorry.
u2016-09-19-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. However, I would also kindly ask the Secretary of State to respect the time frame. Mr László Varga has the right to a rejoinder.
u2016-09-19-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You really don't understand the situation, so it's very clear now. The fact is that all kinds of international outlooks can be said, and such answers can be read, but a good message until 2008 was that the Paralympics received the same amount of reward for their success as their intact counterparts, their intact athletes, the Olympics; this is a bad message. A good message to the whole disabled social group was that there was the same amount of reward, that they were being watched by the government, that this country was paying attention to them, and that it made sense that they were creating serious achievements in all areas of life. What you're doing in this case is a bad message. It would not be such a budgetary burden to give the same reward; we can point out countless luxuries from the budget, instead of which this money would certainly be a much better place to reward the success of paralympics. I think you can do one thing: withdraw what you have said so far in this case and give me the same reward for the success of the paralympics as the Olympics, their healthy athletes. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-159	Honourable Congressman, I repeat that the government did not draft a proposal in 2013 itself, but asked the community of those responsible for this issue. [[14.10]] And they made a request to the government to increase the amount of aid for preparation by the government. Obviously, there are several reasons for this. If you look at it, you will compare the results of the Rio Olympics, where 205 countries started with 11 544 athletes, 306 of them won gold medals, 526 of the 4350 athletes in 178 countries who have just finished the Paralympics. So they got these medals in a much higher proportion. Of course, we consider this performance to be very important for preparation. We provide a lot more support, but if you have suggestions from a Member, then the organisations who have formulated the current support system for the government, who represent the Hungarian Olympic and Paralympic community, will have this professional consultation with them, and then the government, as it has previously accepted the proposal of these organisations, will obviously continue to do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. When exactly will a lighter Hungarian citizenship be granted to the buyers of settlement bonds? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congressman if he'll accept it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2016-09-19-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, I was pushing the national security risk of the settlement bond scheme, and I drew attention to this, and I did not receive a satisfactory response from the Secretary of State, and unfortunately, I have yet to draw your attention to another fact, and in this I must address a question to the ministry led by you and your boss. It seems, however, that the impertinence of the intermediary companies working on the monopoly market and the shambles of the government have led to new peaks, since not only the possibility of free movement and business within the EU is the word called on the flag of intermediary companies, but also the right to vote, namely the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship. You get goose bumps at the same time, and you have a fist in your hand when you watch these commercial videos. As if the news was not about our beloved country, but about some kind of offshore banana republic, when agents consider it important to stress that under the current rules Hungarian citizenship can be claimed eight years after obtaining the residence permit. Of course, they stress that there is no real need to live here, but unfortunately, for the time being, we need to take a language exam from the local language - understand: Hungarian. But if one becomes sad, no harm will happen, soon that will change, instead of eight, the waiting time will be five years, and even the requirement for compulsory language examination will be abolished. Even though the government denies that a settlement obligation can be used to obtain citizenship, it can be obtained under the laws in force, Mr Secretary of State, after eight years of waiting. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State whether it is true that they will facilitate the acquisition of citizenship, which would mean only five years of waiting time in the future, and would also exclude the knowledge of the Hungarian language from the criteria, and, if they deny the fact of the facilitation, what legal action will be taken in relation to the claims made on the video. Is it being investigated and sanctioned, or does greed override all national interests again? Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Business is business! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I mentioned in the introduction, will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Last week, I answered correctly, exhaustively and factually to interpellation questions about national security aspects of settlement bonds. It is true, by the way, that you have unfortunately not accepted these, but I would like to stress that I can also answer your current questions firmly: the government does not intend to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship, nor does it. Congressman, I suggest that you have a calm dream of not looking at various gibberish video ads and other frivolous news, but of believing in the government. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Tell him what to look at.]] Believe the government. I am merely suggesting that you calm down, honourable Member. So we are not talking about facilitating the conditions for obtaining citizenship. They are defined by law, these laws are in force, and we do not want to change these laws, and Hungary does not, by the way, grant citizenship, but residence to investors buying settlement bonds. The period of validity of the national residence document is up to five years, the applicants will undergo a four-time security filter before entering the country at all, the Immigration and Nationality Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the police will examine whether they pose a national security or public security risk to Hungary, and in my interpellation reply last week, I discussed the number of applications rejected by the Hungarian authorities on the basis of precisely these aspects. Please revive my answers to your question. Again, I can only stress that there is no reason to worry about the settlement policy, that the programme complies with EU rules, international practice and that it also complies with Hungary's national interests. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Long live the offshore business! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-165	The agent in charge of one of the companies is speaking on this video. So it's not a story that's not recognized by anyone. I mean, Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't even answer that you contacted the Hungarian nation to release the data, who was the Russian citizen who could have been granted residence as a criminal. I'm also asking you to answer that in rejoinder. In fact, after eight years of staying here, you can apply for citizenship, so it can be based on the legislation in force. This can also be done by those who pay this EUR 300,000. Secretary of State, they sent me a detailed statement, which I thank you very much for, which actually includes the fact that there are rejections, but it also says that if we look at the residence and residence permits and add family members together, nearly 18,000 people came in through the program. It's in what you wrote, almost 18,000 people. If, of course, the numbers are not real, or if I misunderstood something, then let's continue our professional debate, but it seems that the press misunderstood it just as much as we did. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-167	I am protecting the honourable Member from such misunderstandings - and the public too - but I understand that he has graduated from law school, and I am only calling attention - I would also like to say that he knows that video recording is not a source of law, that it does not give rise to any right, and that it is absolutely dangerous to refer to it as a source of law, and I do not recommend that he take it into account as a serious source of law and refer to it, although his heart has the right to do so, but then he accepts the consequences. Once again, here in front of the public in this House, I confirm that the government does not intend to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship, there is no such proposal, there is no such agenda before the government, we do not plan this, we will not do that, and I ask the honourable Member to listen to the government, not only to the law, but certainly to the video recordings. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Business can go on. That's good. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-09-19-168	Fellow Members! Just a little more patience and restraint, please. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. What measures does the government intend to take to further reduce tax evasion? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary and the Hungarian government recognise that the European Commission's study considers the economic whitening measures taken in Hungary to be successful and effective, as the VAT gap decreased by more than 4 percentage points in a year. Based on the Commission's study, the estimated VAT gap in Hungary decreased from 22.24 per cent in 2013 to 17.95 per cent in 2014 thanks to government measures to reduce tax avoidance. With this result, Hungary has achieved the third largest improvement in the EU. The biggest role in this improvement was undoubtedly played by online cash registers, even though entrepreneurs had to use this cash register only in the last four months of 2014. In all likelihood, the 2015 series will be even better, as the EKÁER debuted that year, and that was the first full year when businesses could only deposit their revenue into a cash register with a tax office connection. Every year, Brussels measures the difference between the expected VAT revenue and the amount actually collected for each Member State. This is the so-called VAT gap, referred to above, in which other things than the budget revenue that is supposed to be lost due to tax avoidance are included, but this is the most significant. The most important anti-black economy measures in the past have therefore proven themselves. Dear Secretary of State, The KDNP Group trusts that there is no stopping and that the government's ambition is to further reduce the black economy. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether the government is planning to take measures to further reduce tax evasion. I look forward to your reply. [[14.20]]
u2016-09-19-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government now has demonstrated and recognised results at international level in terms of the efficiency of tax collection and a high level in terms of reducing the black economy. As you said, the afare has decreased by 4.3 percent, and Hungary is able to produce one of the most significant results. Based on what? I'll start with the small measures. For example, the implementation of the submission of the VAT summary, which allows the tax authority to see what accounts have been generated. The introduction of reverse VAT in certain areas. VAT cuts themselves reduce the possibility of a black economy in the area of consumption. The online cash register you mentioned, which is used by 220,000 businesses. This is already recognised and interested internationally, especially in the context of the EKAER, and this is the electronic tracking system, with which Hungary has taken a pioneering role. This has very serious results, as VAT revenue increased by more than HUF 1000 billion compared to 2010. So, when budget opportunities are broadened and deficits can be reduced, it has been a huge opportunity to increase the efficiency of VAT revenues and other tax revenues. Of course, based on this, we will continue to tighten up and plan new measures to reduce the black economy. The essence of this, if I may, I would like to say in the moment that remains. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2016-09-19-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think it is in the common interest of all of us and the common good to reduce the level of the black economy as much as possible, to increase the revenue from the budget, because we all know that these extra revenues can be used to support education, health or even the social sphere in additional funding. Thank you for the government's activities in this area, and KDNP will continue to support the government's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to the Secretary of State, if he makes use of the opportunity to reply. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-175	Thank you very much. The following measures are expected in 2017. The extension of the online cash register for about 20-30 thousand businesses. In this regard, the regulation has already been published, so everyone can know who this will apply to. The biggest change is perhaps the introduction of the online billing system, which we would like to implement in 2017 but not later than 1 January 2018. This will be a very strict system, and it will affect businesses that issue VAT invoices over 100 thousand forints. In essence, they will be connected online to the tax authority and the tax authority will see whether they will issue a real invoice, whether it is issued by a real undertaking and to a real enterprise. With this, the EKÁER system and the online cash register system are essentially closed, the circle where VAT fraud may still be committed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-19-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Who lies in the government?" It's an address. [[Dr. István Józsa: Everyone.]] The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister's presence to be answered.
u2016-09-19-177	Thank you very much, I'm curious about the Prime Minister's response, so I'll wait for him.
u2016-09-19-178	Thank you very much. Congressman Józsa, if you wouldn't mind holding your opinion another time. [[Dr. István Józsa: Next time I will publish it in writing.]] Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister's presence to be answered. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-179	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister on this issue.
u2016-09-19-180	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, would also like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "Where there is sawing, is there a drop of chips?" It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-19-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, As a starting new guy, I've been thinking a lot about whether it's a good time to act on reason or emotion in such a speech or argument. That's a difficult question. I'd rather stick to emotion than think you don't know why you're doing it. I suppose you know very well, which is why I have to speak today. I have to appeal to shame. They're doing the same thing the Communists did. Social security was launched in Hungary long before the communists in 1892 with the bill on the compulsory health fund. In 1951, however, the National Social Insurance Institute was abolished under the Geresék, just as you are now planning to eliminate the national health fund. Then a rationalization committee fell victim to health insurance, and now your reduction in bureaucracy. Then Anna Ratko did it, and now you're doing it. They were government decisions. I have a government decision in my hand. The result was that from then on the government decided, for example, in the VKM clinics or in the clinics managed by the Ministry of Welfare, about the beds, and Ernő Gerő pulled it out himself. No doubt that will continue to be the case. There was a record at the time, that's a difference, because I understand there's no record now. I don't know if there's a record, but it's not public, that's for sure. The question is, what is the reason for this termination? Isn't it because they want to open the insurance market by plotting social security? Please give me your word - I don't know how much that means - but give me your word that's not what you're preparing with this step. Thank you.
u2016-09-19-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-19-183	I am afraid that my fellow Members have lost their emotional impact today, Congressman. I'm trying to understand your question, but it's not easy either. I do not blame you, as a new Member of Parliament, for failing, in the framework of this genre, to ask your question clearly and clearly, because it is difficult for others, and I therefore think that we should be generous. As far as your question is concerned, I think that the person who has taken an oath in Parliament will have a meaningful hand and leeway in terms of Hungarian health in the social referendum, showing that a referendum always has consequences. Those who participated in the social referendum in 2008 voted in an overwhelming majority in favour of not having a visitation fee in Hungary, and symbolically decided that Hungarian health care should never be paid. Given that most of our compatriots feel that they have already paid their health insurance contributions, they do not wish or have the opportunity to contribute to the operation of the health insurance fund with additional insurance or additional financial contribution. [[14.30]] So I can give my word not only on a conscience basis, but also on the basis of one of the best Members of Parliament in the health sector against privatisation before the 2008 referendum, but also on my oath I can give my word to the representative that, as long as we govern, there will be no more insurance model in Hungary and no private insurance system will arise. If the private insurance system cannot arise, the technical question from now on is how the pension fund, the Health Insurance Fund and the financial funds attached to the budget work. This is a technical issue, the essence of which is the financing of the National Health Insurance Fund and health care through health policy, in a transparent form, in an accountable form precisely to Parliament. I'll be back for that in the next minute. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-185	Thank you very much, Minister. The truth is, I didn't really think that I was gonna give you feelings, especially shame, and I didn't see that much of it. Thank you for giving me your word that you will not be a part of this. It's a little out of value that you said in the case of the Traffic Act that anyone should show any evidence that the Trafiks were divided by you. I think there's been a lot of them. I think that we need to prevent a political fraud with that speech, because at a time when you have made a very serious effort in the referendum to keep health in the hands of the state, the signals that show that the National Health Insurance Fund must be plowed in to open the insurance market before social security, we must definitely talk about this. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-186	Thank you very much. For a moment, Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-187	I don't have much legislative experience, I've been sitting here in Parliament since 2002. But I think that the genre is not suitable for political debate, so I cannot reflect on what you have said. It may be capable of answering specific questions and colliding opinions on them, although it is very narrow. The National Health Insurance Fund is today, in regulatory terms, an organizational structure that is constantly slipping out of the responsibility of the government and on the path of autonomy. If I tell you that the Director-General of the National Health Insurance Fund is not appointed by the Secretary of State or Minister for Health, but by the Prime Minister, it shows well that the funding of health care is becoming an independent branch of power. This is not the right thing to do, because, in our opinion and our belief, ministers must take responsibility for the entire area they control. Therefore, the National Health Insurance Fund should be integrated into a ministerial liability arrangement. It must remain a separate financial basis attached to the Ministry, I add, on the basis of a completely transparent management and governance structure, so that the organisation of health care, the financing of health insurance and the official supervision of the work are in the hands of the Minister and the State Secretary who replaced him. This is the purpose of the transformation and nothing more than that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-188	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Lukács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "How much do you want to know? It's an address. The Minister has appointed both Secretarys of State to respond in response to his urgent public mission, depending on which field of expertise your question will concern. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts any of the respondents or waits for the Minister. [[Zoltán Lukács: I accept.]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-19-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. One of the most serious political scandals in Hungary has recently been the placing of secret listening and image recording equipment in a state institution, the headquarters of Magyar Television Kunigunda Street. Since then, operating director Vas Imre, who is now a suspect in this case, said that when the police first asked that the placement of these devices served a higher purpose. This shows that Imre Vas did not wake up on his own one morning and placed such equipment in the headquarters, but placed it on some order. We also know that Attila Vas Várhegyi was a trusted man, who was there at his request. Attila Várhegyi, who, by the way, became a convicted criminal as Mayor of Szolnok, now has an office in the headquarters of MTVA Kunigunda Street without any connection to MTVA. Compared to this, he's the leash on MTVA's neck, and we also know about Attila Várhegyi that he's confidential with the Prime Minister. Well, they planted this audio and image recording device in a conference room where not only MTVA employees, but politicians, diplomats, experts and everyone could turn around. So I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State who ordered these equipments to be placed. Is it true that the observation was for political purposes? Is it true that we see part of the political war within Fidesen? Why don't you listen to and involve Attila Várhegyi in this case, who, clearly, has political oversight at MTVA? Can this recording be destroyed in the same way as the Portic letter to Gábor Kubatov, or Antal Rogán's piece of property? Please respond to this. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-19-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You socialists regularly produce conspiracy theories, either in relation to early elections or in connection with this matter. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone, no one can be exempt from the law. And anyone who violates the law, violates the law, has to be held responsible. So I hope, honourable Member, that you will have the patience to wait for the end of this procedure. And, honourable Member, these unfounded accusations, which are also trying to create uncertainty about the legal procedure of the Hungarian authorities, are completely unfounded. Once again, what you've told me, conspiracy theory, there's no basis for that. The laws are binding on everyone, because the country is a democratic rule of law, and the truth will come out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Lukács. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-193	Thank you very much. If I was gonna say conspiracy theory, I could do better than that. It's about you not responding to what Attila Várhegyi's office is doing in an institution where he has no legal relationship. They didn't answer who ordered Imre Vas to place these listening devices and image recorders. They didn't answer who was in that conference room and where these tapes were. Were there politicians, public figures, government people among them? He didn't answer anything. And he didn't answer, either, to which he can now reply that if, by the way, a simple Hungarian citizen goes into a public institution to talk, negotiate, or for any purpose, he can expect that this conversation is recorded with a picture, a voice, and various secret observations are carried out. It's not a conspiracy theory, it's your practice, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-19-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-09-19-195	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I reject these findings, these false, unfounded findings, which lack all grounds for the procedure of the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian official bodies. Honourable Congressman, What question did you ask in the hour of immediate questioning? It's called, "Are you guys that curious?" I don't know who has an office in MTVA headquarters. I don't know. I want to answer fair and square. [[Noise, interventions in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik, including György Szilágyi: He was in the news. István Apáti: Uncle Sanyi knows.]] And in this matter, if you were curious about what you were really complaining about, you would have formulated in the title of your question the subject that you are really curious about. Because... - Mr President, please give me the opportunity to answer the question. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So, honourable Member, these findings are completely unfounded. Once again, the Hungarian authorities are acting legally, all authorities comply with the law. If, however, you are aware of anything else, press charges. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-19-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Varju applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Address of the address of the speaker:.. In connection with the events of the last week. You have the floor. [[14.40]]
u2016-09-19-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The last week has been loud enough about what plans the government has made to eviscerate pensioners, with the intention that those who have not had the opportunity or had no intention of being in contact with the bank and taking over the pension in this way, but that the postman would instead be obliged to open a bank account. So I'm going to speak out for those pensioners who, in that sense, do not wish to open such an account. Just now, honourable representatives of the government have referred to a source of law to see if this is a legitimate statement; I respectfully indicate that the Government decree has been published here, and practically every bank will have to enter a so-called base account from 15 October. The point is, it only provides basic services, and in return, they think it's pretty cheap. I would like to discuss this later on, exactly what this means. So the target group, specifically, is targeted at people with this service or this account for whom the postman brings the pension, has not yet wanted to use a bank to manage their finances, and they have tried to save these costs. We could say that in a sense this could be good, since there are also risks or disadvantages of this solution that cannot be linked to a basic account. After all, let us begin by saying that the regulation alone: it is possible that 1.5 percent of the minimum wage may also be the cost, which means that the management of such an account could cost a pensioner HUF 1575. The cost of the credit card might add up to that, and we'll have a few more. So there are a number of problems in this regard. However, it is not clear whether the basic account will be mandatory for those who do not yet have a banking relationship. The government has made some disguise statements so far, but it has not made clear how and for whom it is planning to introduce this clearly. Based on previous practices, I believe that they intend to do so in general. Numerous questions arise, therefore, because we do not know who can receive the free service, for example, because here we have a next regulation, which has not yet been published, which has not yet been adopted, and we refer to legislation. So they keep the people involved in uncertainty. But what happens to those who, by the way, live their lives in bed, there is a need for a contributor, and the possibility of this contributor is also excluded by this regulation? And then I didn't mention that this average pension of HUF 1575 per month could reach HUF 20,000 per year, which, by the way, is a major disadvantage for pensioners. Therefore, I am clearly saying that this regulation is detrimental to pensioners. It is outrageous and inhumane that they want this 20,000 forints out of the pockets of pensioners. The only reason I find it outrageous is that, even when private pension funds were abolished, the government, Viktor Orbán, used such a multi-stage solution. First, he said that there would be an individual account in the state system, everyone should be calm, and that would be recorded there, and then 3000 billion forints were stolen, and since then, of course, there has not been, at least according to Fidesz, it is natural that there has not been an individual account and that 3000 billion forints have disappeared. It is clear that the government will make it compulsory for pensioners to open a monthly HUF 1500 bill for everyone. Moreover, the step will not be felt on their wallets, as I mentioned. What happens to people who don't know about ATMs? What happens to people who are sick and can't leave their house? That is why we are protesting that the Democratic Coalition is protesting the introduction of this basic bill. You can't make pensioners do that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-19-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda entitled Language Education for the Government. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-09-19-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In Hungarian public education, we are indeed at the end of the rankings in an international comparison in many areas, and among them there is the question of language education and language competences. The situation in Hungary in this regard is that, without private teachers and extracurricular efforts, only children with very good skills or a very good sense of language can exit the Hungarian school system. By appropriate language competence, I mean the basic communication skills that, after the lessons in school, one can cope with the knowledge of that language. Symptoms of the general crisis in public education: basically a misalignment of the withdrawal of funds and maintenance management, and basically the 21st century. It is the lack of an education system for the first century that characterizes that environment. We have also learned all of this from the 2008 Green Paper or the analysis of Wing and Burden developed by the Council of Wise Men asked by László Sólyom or from the 2013 White Paper. If we focus only on language learning, we can see that according to Eurostat 2014 statistics, only 6.3 percent of 11-14-year-olds learn two or more foreign languages in Hungary, i.e. 6.3 percent of the 11-14-year-olds. If you look at, say, Romania, there are 95,6 percent; in Italy 98.4 percent; in Estonia 96.3 percent, who are learning two languages, while in Hungary the same ratio is 6 percent. According to the analysis, 90 percent of the 11-14-year-old secondary school students in Hungary learn a foreign language, so in the countries I mentioned more people learn two foreign languages than in Hungary. In terms of language competences, the situation is even worse if we add to the data of language skills how many of the Hungarian population know certain languages because they belong to the particular nationality. Only 37 percent of the Hungarian population aged 25-64 speaks at least one foreign language, and most of it is English, and only a quarter of the Hungarians speaking English said that they speak this language well, so it is also a quarter of this 37 percent who speaks this language at a level that it can actually be used for it. Of course, we also need to present the proposals for solutions to the Parliament, and the most important aim would be to launch a meaningful, professional-based social debate on this issue, which is constructive and willing to put aside, unfortunately for the past 25 years, the dwarfings that are characteristic of the past 25 years. Of course, it is necessary to fully modernise language education, whether it is a methodology or a teacher's education. Unfortunately, in Hungary, there has been progress in teaching, but the methodology based on grammar is still over-emphasised instead of a methodology based on communicative and digital techniques and authentic language elements, so we will not be able to compete, we will not be able to catch up with the rest of Europe in terms of language competences. Obviously, this should be a very important objective of Hungarian education, both economically and socially, so that the language competences of the population can be developed. It should also be noted that there is a general experience not only with regard to language teaching but also with regard to other fields of science that the mechanical increase in the number of hours does not mean that language competences will improve accordingly, so basically there is no problem with the scale of the hours, but also the root cause of the problem in the general methodology I have mentioned so far. Practices that have worked well or function well in public education should be raised. I am thinking here about the introduction of grade zero and the collection of practical experience in this regard, and the importance of group division. [[14.50]] After all, experts believe that language education can only be truly effective if we can educate children in groups of less than ten. So these are our proposals for solutions, our proposals. As Chairman of the Committee on Education, I would like to see a meaningful, professional-based social debate on this issue unfold. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-19-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. István Nagy, State Secretary, is the answer to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, The first foreign language education begins at the latest in grade 4 of primary school. If the application of the teacher trained in the first three years of foreign language education can be solved and the educational programme of the school gives the opportunity to do so, the first foreign language can also be taught in these courses. When choosing the first foreign language, which can be English and German, it is necessary to ensure that students can continue to learn it in higher grades. The second foreign language education can begin in our 7th grade. In secondary schools it is necessary to ensure continued education of the first foreign language started and at least the B2 level for the time of graduation. The total number of hours in the framework courses for teaching a foreign language exceeds the average number of hours in Europe, during this year's graduation exam, 54 847 students took a mid-level exam of 10 208 students from the English language. The number of students applying for a higher level of graduation shows a significant increase from 2010. In 2016, 340 projects in educational and training fields were supported in Hungary by Erasmus Plus in coordinating the background institution of the Ministry of Human Resources. According to the data of the Tempus Public Foundation coordinating the EU programme, educational institutions can spend more than EUR 29 million and HUF 8.7 billion to implement these cooperations. This makes it possible to gain nearly 14,000 international experience and strengthen our foreign language competence in the fields of public education, vocational training, higher education and adult learning. Next year, there will be a 15% increase in the programme budget, which will also be reflected in the further increase in the number of proposals. Erasmus Plus is the EU's main international cooperation programme, which offers international cooperation opportunities at all levels of education. In 2016, in addition to almost 8000 Hungarian students and students, 5300 teachers, educators and educational experts, as well as 670 institutional staff and accompanying students, participated in the program. With the support of camping programmes, we want to ensure that students learn foreign languages during their holidays. The competitiveness and foreign language skills of Hungarian students are constantly improving, but we still consider the continued methodological renewal of the teaching of foreign languages important and to be supported. The Public Education Round Table aims to review and renew the National Basic Training Plan. In this context, NAT focuses on the development of basic skills, which, with pedagogical methodological support, can lead to a more effective knowledge acquisition of learners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The system of public education should ensure continuous renewal and review of the changing environment, adapted to economic and labour market expectations. This is not a lesson, but a fully understandable and fulfilling expectation, which is known and resolved by both the government and all the actors in public education. I am very pleased that we do not have a debate on this, but a task to be solved on both sides, which we must fulfil. Thank you very much for asking.
u2016-09-19-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The situation in the taxi service market continues to be chaotic, and the government banning Ubert in the blink of an eye is surprisingly understanding of the speech by Mr Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-19-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, - and that part of the House which also waited for the speeches after the agenda. I think we need to talk about a very important subject. Not so long ago, the government banned Ubert and similar service providers - obviously not just one company, but the entire collection of similar sharing economy solutions was banned by the government - then they promised to put order in the market and perhaps pay more attention to what is happening in the area of taxi drivers and taxicab society. Unfortunately, however, not only did the moods not sit still, but there are increasingly absurd, bizarre and increasingly dangerous stories in the media. Unfortunately, it turns out that these stories are real and are already reaching a level that clearly endangers not only the citizens living here, but also the Hungarian country image through tourists. Of course, we don't want to say that every cab driver is a fraud. In fact, it is precisely in the interests of decent taxi drivers that we should intervene in the market and enforce legislation, the current rules. It would also be in their interest to initiate a procedure laid down in rules and laws against taxi hyenas and cheating taxi drivers, which would rule out the possibility of continuing this activity in the future. I'm going to give you some examples that have been going through the press. Earlier, and in this regard, I spoke before Parliament, a mother and her child were insulted at the airport in Ferihegy, they took her purse, and they tried to get her to take it. Later we heard that a local airport worker was hit by taxi hyenas at Ferihegy airport. And if you look at the recent events, at the Island event, we saw a tricky solution when the taxi hyena cast a single one in front of the 280 forint tariff with duct tape, so it was immediately worth 1280 forints to show its own rate. But it is also a rather interesting story, which happens less often in the West or at least in democracies, that when the Irish passenger did not want to pay the rate of 25 thousand forints, the taxi driver took him up to the mountains and beat him, as usual. It can also be seen that in the press, even more absurd news has appeared that after a car chase, a taxi driver crashed and found drugs on him. So there are a lot of areas where hyenas work; they don't seem to have enough for a thousand-forint tariff; they also need to be complemented by a small amount of drug trafficking. Then there was foam on the cake that British tourists and taxi drivers were beaten this week, because the unsub was also a taxi hyena, although I wouldn't really call him a taxi driver. In this case, too, we have seen, and it is very interesting, to draw attention to the fact that when a suspected or actual injury hits the taxi driver or the taxi hyena, very quickly 20-30 taxi drivers or non-cabbies or other crooks appear on the first call, and without examining whether the passenger is real or not, they often beat up the passenger. I think it also suggests that in such proceedings, criminal proceedings should not only be brought against the person who has committed them, but also as a psychic accomplice to those who have watched them, they have not prevented them. In the meantime, according to the various statements, 10-15 percent of drivers who work legally do not act properly, and according to 10,000 checks, there was almost 10 percent of taxi hyenas, i.e. the proportion of taxi hyenas that are not licensed. We can imagine that not all such hyenas have been found by inspectors, so there are a much larger number of so-called hyenas in the taxi services market. Meanwhile, there's nothing the government can do. If these people are even punished in the first instance, by the time this is final, then nothing will happen, they can continue their proceedings and continue to deceive tourists and Hungarian citizens. While you were threatening Uber drivers with license plates, even though you didn't beat anyone, all you had to do was clear tax issues, so the taxi hyenas are avoiding this, and we can see that, and honest taxi drivers can see that they're being protected, the government isn't doing anything. It was just the tax issues that they could bring up from the Uber perspective. I ask you, how much do taxi hyenas tax? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[15.00]]
u2016-09-19-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, There have been so many taxicab sessions here in this House in the negative context that we still need to clarify something. Those whom you have spoken of are not taxi drivers, but hyenas; fraudsters who abuse the opportunities of an occupation gain a market advantage that is completely unjust. But a large part of the taxicab society cannot be placed under unfair circumstances, it cannot be condemned, because they do their job with honor, in the struggles of everyday life. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's what I said, Mr. Secretary.]] For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: CHAPTER VII The main objective of the legislative tightening up in force from day 21 is to ensure that the market for passenger taxi services without authorisation is in order and that controls are more effective. The measures are intended solely to prevent illegal activities from being carried out. The amendments reflect the belief that businesses that are deliberately ignoring the requirements and thus benefiting from an undue competitive advantage have no place in the taxi services market. We stress that personal taxi services can only be carried out under the same conditions as those laid down in the Government Decree. To achieve this, a consistent and rigorous sanctioning system has been established. In the near future, increased monitoring of compliance is expected, regardless of Uber's withdrawal. To this end, a unit of the audit group to be set up by the end of the year will carry out specific checks on passenger car transport services, in particular taxi services. The development portfolio has started to set up a control group, in line with the government decision, with the selection of staff, which will operate within the framework of the National Transport Authority. The audit team will start work after the training. The audit methodology is being developed, but it will in any case be a frequented area for the control of the personal taxi service. The objective is continuous presence, the inspections will be carried out 24 hours a day. In accordance with the accepted concept, the National Transport Authority has launched the IT and other technical procurement necessary for the installation of the inspection team and has concluded a contract with the commissioner for the training of future road inspectors. In addition, the body coordinating the work of the control authorities will be designated in order to increase efficiency. This is because the aspects to be checked are also on a wide scale. In addition to monitoring the conditions relating to activity and authorisation, it is also important to examine compliance with tax rules. The inspector cannot act if he experiences a crime during the inspection, which is not unthinkable when checking so-called taxi hyenas. Therefore, in some cases and at critical locations, such as the Keleti Railway Station or in front of the Western Railway Station, the assistance of the police will also be essential for taxi drags at Blaha Lujza Square. I hope my answer will be a comfort to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-19-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Viva, Benyovszky! Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of Jobbik, was born 275 years ago with the title "King of Hungary" of Madagascar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-09-19-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear right-hand man and a fellow MSZP member. 275 years ago, September 20, 1741 Móric Benyovszky was born in Verbo, the Hungarian Count elected king of Madagascar, who entered the world that was then known. At the age of 15, he was a lieutenant in the Austrian army, but his brothers-in-law turned him out of his father's inheritance, so he was forced to settle down in Poland. However, his restless nature and desire for freedom brought him into the Polish uprising of 1767 fighting for the modernization of the country against the growing Russian influence, where he was captured as a general in Russia. He was exiled to Kamchatka, but the educated, multi-lingual Benyovszky, who was excellent at music and especially at the people, quickly gained the goodwill of the governor there, who soon made him his secretary and even wanted to marry one of his daughters. During his stay there, he prepared the first geographical, ethnographic and zoological description of Kamchatka. In the spring of 1771 he organized an uprising with the help of the exiled Tsar officers, and then sailed south along the coast of East Asia. He probably reached the island of Taiwan and Okinava as the first Hungarian who made valuable descriptions of them. According to some sources, the Taiwanese wanted to make him their king to lead them in their fight against the Chinese gradually settling into their homeland. However, Benyovszky went to Paris, where XV. Louis commissioned him to set up a trading facility in Madagascar. In 1773 he founded Louisbourg, with 250 of his people, on an exotic island uniquely unknown, including his flora and fauna. He built roads, drained swamps, built excellent connections with the local tribes, who, according to his own declaration, chose him as their king in October 1776. And Benyovszky decided to organize a modern state from Madagascar. However, because of the intrigues of the leaders of the French colony of Mauritania, he had to return to Paris, where his ideas were rejected. In London and Vienna, he tried to get support for his plans, but his good friend, Benjamin Franklin, tried to get a letter of recommendation in the United States. In the meantime, far ahead of his time, he was engaged in the development of trade in Hungary, the water connection between Komárom and Rijeka, so that excellent Hungarian grain could reach the world markets. Finally, in 1785 he was able to return to Madagascar with the support of a Baltimore trading company. Perhaps he suspected his fate, for he had not taken his wife, Zsuzsanna Hönsch, and his two daughters, Zsofia and Rosa. On May 24, 1786, he was shot to death in the fight with French troops sent to capture him. Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian king of Madagascar has been buried far from his homeland, and his grave has since grown into the jungle, but there are some who continue to cherish his memory after a quarter of a millennium. The Hungarian-Madagaszkár Memorial Society was founded in 2002 in memory of Móric Benyovszky, in short: the work of the Móric Benyovszky Society, which has since placed a statue of Benyovszky and a memorial plaque in Madagascar, published a source of scientific volume in French, English and Hungarian about the adventurous Count, organized numerous lectures and events at home and in the world. They did all this out of dedication and this year without any state support. The Hollywood film industry has been embarrassing adventures, and the restless Hungarian Count is now considered by our Polish friends and Slovak neighbours as the son of their own nation. At the present time, only Slovak-language inscriptions announce that he was a Slovak traveler, while we know that he spoke only Hungarian in his family. Today, the French still cherish it, in the capital of Madagascar, the streets bear its name, Taiwanese historians seek its life. This is why I consider it important that the anniversary of his birth and death was among the top national anniversaries in Hungary for the first time this year. In November 2015, a memorial committee was set up in Budapest on the initiative and at the request of the Benyovszky Móric Society, organizing a prestigious international conference, exhibition and gala evening in the National Széchényi Library on 26 September. In doing so, details will be presented from a new Hungarian musical. Tibor Nagy, Iván Bradányi and Zsolt Pozsgai's prestigious author trio feature seven songs in the co-production performance of the Hungarian Theatre of Pest. This year's Benyovszky Memorial Year has also put tourism on the move, in the wake of the Vista Travel Agency, which organises trips to Madagascar with the title "Benyovszky." Dear Parliament, The life path of Móric Benyovszky connects us with the peoples and cultures of distant continents, which has many unexploited opportunities. I therefore believe that the government should also be more decisive in helping to preserve its memory, for example by supporting the publication of an appropriate multilingual biographical volume, since there are still a number of controversial issues in the Count's life that could only be clarified by international cooperation and cooperation. So let us remember with respect the Hungarian king of Madagascar. Viva, Benyovszky! Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-09-19-208	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-19-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Móric Benyovszky, born September 20, 1746 275. This year, the Benyovszky Memorial Committee celebrates its anniversary with a series of several elements, including Dr. Péter Hoppál State Secretary for Culture, István Ájgyártó State Secretary for Culture and Science Diplomacy and Head of several prestigious cultural and scientific institutions. [[15.10]] The outstanding events of the Benyovszky Memorial Year can further strengthen respect for the values of the past and encourage not only official and voluntary ambassadors of science and culture, but also all of us. The programs include the scientific conference to be held on Monday 26 September 2016 at 9 a.m. at the National Széchényi Library, and a Benyovszky memorial event at the Pesti Vigadó from 18 p.m. on the same day. The show presents for the first time the musical entitled "The Newest Hungarian Musical Stage," "Benyovszky," the Lover of Freedom. The performance will be presented in full in 2017 at the Pesti Hungarian Theatre and then in other countries. In addition to preserving national historical traditions, the event also strengthens the cooperation of the countries involved in the preservation of the historical heritage of Benyovszky, through the historical example of the famous historical personality and of Móric Benyovszky countries and continents. Listening to your speech, I can only say that I fully agree with you: viva, Benyovszky!
u2016-09-19-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-19-211	Mr President, Dear House, During his speech before Jobbik's agenda, it has already become clear that the amazing double speech that the Government of Hungary is conducting in international space and in Hungary. The latest proof of this is the joint V4 document dated at the top of Bratislava, where Hungary's representative there has also sanctioned a statement that is quite amazing, it says: people with labour shortages may even receive a significant number of people involved. This is obviously a question of third-country nationals, but it may also be a question of migrants, because precisely this government has already put forward a bill which, allegedly, would make it easier for multinationals to bring in workers from third countries or even from temporary residents in Western Europe and, where appropriate, to relocate workers. Why can we talk about resettlement? It was also a pro-government representative who, although he justified the arrival of workers from third countries on a seasonal basis, considered it important to point out that this is happening from countries, i.e. from which it is easier for the arrivals to fit into Hungarian society. In our view, however, seasonal work would not require integration, but it is not necessary anyway, so there is no condition that would make this necessary, Hungary must solve its own problems on its own initiative, by no means with 250,000 workers brought here from abroad by Mihály Varga's idea. For example, Tibor Navracsics, EU Commissioner, who was present at the committee meeting at which the Commissioners made their decision on the solidarity contribution, by consensus, in a huge quotation mark. It is a contribution that blackmails states that do not want to accept migrants on a compulsory basis with a withdrawal of EUR 250 000 per immigrant, i.e. HUF 78 million. Obviously, in addition to the fact that Mr Navracsics took part in this meeting, when we read the EC's rules of operation, we find on the website, literally, that the Commission is responsible on a board basis for the decisions it has taken, that the Commissioners - all of them - are equal to each other in the decision-making process and are equally responsible for the decisions it has taken. So how is it that in domestic space there is an amazing counter- campaign on migration - with which I agree, Jobbik can identify - but in international space you do such things? We also see that when the European Council in its 2015 decision recommends, inter alia, that the EU renews its asylum rules with a permanent legally binding distribution system, we do not understand how the five Fidesz Members participating in this general meeting can vote for such a resolution. So how is it that such sequences of mistakes in international space are made by you in three or four cases, with two thirds of them, now not two-thirds, but a very massive majority of government, and we simply do not understand whether such a series of errors can exist within the Fidesz-KDNP. In our view, the double game is more likely, the double game which seeks to maintain tension in the internal political space without real and complete solutions, since the limit of hermetically closed allows aliens to leak through by tens of thousands, does not set up independent border guards, and in the international space they do sign closing documents on the implementation of compulsory resettlement decisions. At the moment, there is a decree at home minister level on this subject, but you have not initiated a suspension. I would like to make it clear that Jobbik is certainly encouraging us to participate in the domestic quota benchmark, and it encourages the non-voting, so that we exclude all forms of attempts at resettlement, not only the former mandatory mechanism, but also the deportations and other methods. At the same time, we see that the Fidesz-KDNP itself risks the validity and effectiveness of this vote. However, they should be aware of their historical responsibility that if this quota hierarchy is not valid because of similar tickle-cooking and double-playing, they will give Brussels a tactical nuclear weapon, and if this is the case, this government will have to take responsibility for what has happened personally. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-19-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 26 September 2016. Thank you for your two weeks of work. Good evening, everyone. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:17 p.m.]]
