u2016-05-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 31st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the draft law on the publication of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the amendment of Article 8 of the Statute in Kampala until its closure. The government referral is T/10722. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-25-1	[[The sound system isn't working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The idea of setting up a permanent International Criminal Court has already arisen after World War I, but actual steps in this direction are only the second...
u2016-05-25-2	Mr. Secretary, there's something wrong with the microphone. Or your card, I don't know if it's in place. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The card!]] Yeah, it's a card problem. [[Dr. Pál Völner inserts his card into the machine.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-3	Excuse me. Mr President, Dear House, The idea of setting up a permanent International Criminal Court was already raised after World War I, but real steps were taken in this direction only after World War II was held accountable. However, these efforts were interrupted once again as the Cold War broke out. In 1989, after the end of the bipolar world, negotiations began again within the framework of the UN to set up a permanent criminal court. On 15 January 1999, Hungary's representative signed the text of the Statute, which was also included in the bill. In 2001 the Parliament confirmed it in an internal legal sense, so on 30 November 2001 we deposited the instrument of ratification on behalf of Hungary with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. With this confirmation, the Statute entered into force in international law on 1 July 2002, as did the other States which ratified the Statute, in relation to Hungary. The Statute has not yet been published, and this proposal is now intended to replace it. In this connection, it is important to note that, from an international perspective, Hungary is still bound by the provisions of the Statute, so they must be applied and may be applied to Hungary in the absence of internal legal publication. The need for publication can be justified by both constitutional and international legal reasons. Regardless of the content of the contract under consideration, the Fundamental Law provides that the obligations entered into under international law must be consistent with internal law. In order for this to happen, the text of the international treaty has to be transposed into Hungarian law from a formal point of view with a rule of law, which in this case would take place at the current legal level, and the relevant internal rules have to be adapted in substance to the international commitments undertaken. With the publication and related legislative amendments, the legislator fulfils both requirements, including content and form, by adopting this bill. Another reason for the publication of the Statute is that it cannot be ruled out on a theoretical level that, under the Statute, Hungary is somehow involved in the proceedings of the court because of an extradition or other ancillary matter. The conditions for participation in the proceedings of the International Criminal Court can only be fully achieved by the publication of the Statute and the amendment of the related internal legislation, because, failing that, the measures of the Hungarian authorities could only operate between the rules of international legal assistance and the rules of legal assistance in the European Union. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary was an active supporter of the establishment of the International Criminal Court during the preparations as a member of the group of 60-70 countries whose leading and proactive seed was formed by the Member States of the European Union. The court now has a permanent, universal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide, anti-humanity and war crimes, and currently has jurisdiction only as a matter of principle over those involved in the act of aggression. The court may also deal with these crimes in the case of non-international armed conflicts. Detailed definitions of crimes against humanity and war crimes are laid down in the Statute. The proceedings of the court may be initiated by any State Party, by the United Nations Security Council and by the Attorney General of the Court. Except in the case of an initiative by the Security Council, a court may exercise its jurisdiction only if it is a party to the Statute or the State in whose territory the offence has been committed or the State of nationality of the perpetrator; however, States not party may accept the jurisdiction of the court limited to a particular case. As a result of the complementary nature of the national institutions, the principle of complementarity, the court may act only if the State otherwise entitled does not wish or is not able to exercise its criminal jurisdiction, even if the above conditions are met. Mr President, Dear House, The Statute identifies a number of important criminal principles, such as the principle of nullum crimen sine lege and the prohibition of retroactive effect. The Statute shall rule out the limitation of the offences that have been identified in it. The court may judge only natural persons who are not exempt from criminal liability by their official quality or may not serve as a basis for reducing their sentence. The Statute includes internationally agreed procedural principles, including the requirement for a public hearing in the presence of the defendant and the presumption of innocence. [[9.10]] The defendant shall have the right to know the charge, to have the means to prepare his defence, or to have a defender. The Statute shall also ensure the proper protection of victims and witnesses, having regard to cases brought before the Court of Justice under its special jurisdiction. Decisions of the Court of First Instance shall be subject to appeal and shall be subject to review of the judgment in the event of the subsequent occurrence of new, decisive circumstances. The Statute provides for the obligation of States Parties to cooperate with a court. The penalties which may be imposed by the court are imprisonment of up to life, fines and confiscation of the proceeds of the crime. The place of execution of the prison sentence shall be designated by the court on the list of States which undertake to do so. The Statute assumes that international criminal law will be enforced in two ways: both through direct enforcement and indirect enforcement. The Statute allows perpetrators of the international crimes covered by it to be held directly liable under international law, i.e. the Statute, to an international organisation, i.e. the court, irrespective of national law. On the other hand, national authorities may also carry out the prosecution of perpetrators of offences governed by the Statute on the basis of national law. The principle of complementarity, as emphasised in the preamble to the Statute, means that the court's proceedings are complementary to national criminal jurisdictions. From a material point of view, complementarity expresses the responsibility of the individual sovereign states to prosecute international crime. Complementarity in this sense also means that international criminal justice should only cover the most serious infringements. Accordingly, the Statute limits the jurisdiction of the court to the most serious crimes affecting the international community as a whole, genocide, crimes against war and humanity. But even in these cases, the court will act only if the act is of sufficient weight and it is in the interest of the international community to judge the court. In a procedural sense, complementarity means that, not the court, but the national judiciary, has primary jurisdiction. Under the Statute, the court has subordinate jurisdiction, it may deal with the case only if the national courts are unable or unwilling to deal with the perpetrators of the offences referred to in the Statute under the jurisdiction of the court. The General Assembly of States Parties shall meet annually to review the main questions relating to the functioning of the Court and shall decide, inter alia, on the adoption of the annual budget of the Court. The Judges of the Court shall be elected every three years. The court's seat is in The Hague. The provisions of the Statute shall not be maintained. The court shall be an international institution with an independent legal personality. The costs of its operations shall be covered by membership fees paid by States Parties, by UN funds and by voluntary contributions. Dear House, A comprehensive amendment conference of the International Criminal Court Statute was held in Kampala in Uganda in June 2010, where the amendment included in the bill was adopted. As a result of the amendment, a wider range of the use of illicit weapons becomes a criminal offence punishable by a statute, as they will be used as a result of the amendment as a criminal offence subject to the Statute in non-international armed conflicts. The bill also includes the authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of this amendment and the publication of the amendment. In order to incorporate the Statute into the internal legal order, it is also necessary to amend the fundamental laws on immunity requiring a two-thirds majority vote, as well as the Criminal Code and the laws governing procedural matters relating to enforcement. Article 27 of the Statute provides that the Statute shall apply to all persons irrespective of the official quality. Pursuant to Article 27 of the Statute, the law in force must be amended so as not to prevent the court from acting in accordance with the acts under its jurisdiction, as provided for in the laws governing the status of the staff concerned or any other exemption conditionally deferring criminal liability. In compliance with this rule, the immunity of the members of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Board of Budgets and Members of Parliament were also restricted in the bill. The amendments in this regard generally state that these officials will be held liable, regardless of their immunity, for an act of criminal persecution under the jurisdiction of an international court with jurisdiction recognised by our country. The amendment of the immunity of Members of Parliament, in view of the particularities of the Hungarian legal order, naturally and necessarily entails changes to the immunity of other officials with the same immunity as the immunity of Members of Parliament, such as Members of the European Parliament, Judges and Prosecutors. With the general wording applied by the bill, not only in the case of crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the court and defined in the Statute, it will be excluded to refer to immunity, but also in the case of an ad hoc court, otherwise recognised in international law, either by other international treaties or by a UN Security Council decision, similar to that of the former Yugoslavian or Rwandan tribunal. The adoption of the Statute also required the creation of two crime-related positions. One declares the insidious murder of persons of the enemy army to be a criminal act. This offense involves fraudulent use of the quality of a protected person, such as the white flag to surrender or the medical quality in the field. The second fact is that the public denial of genocide, anti-humanity or war crimes, determined by the Hungarian or international courts, is a criminal offence. In addition, the amendment replaces the concept of an area of operation or occupation in the Criminal Code with a more defence-proclaimed, more meaningful concept. In addition, it is necessary to clarify and supplement other internal rules of law relating to the proceedings of the International Criminal Court, which make the current rules clear and applicable in the case of extradition relating to the proceedings of the court and in respect of the execution of the judgment of the court. [[9.20]] Mr President, Dear House, With the publication of the Statute of the Court, Hungary will establish the internal legal bases and conditions for a long-standing obligation for it from an international point of view. Therefore, taking into account the arguments of constitutionality and international law previously presented to you, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/10722. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2016-05-25-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes. When you hear about these things, bloody events appear in your mind, innocent, vulnerable, victims. And the sigh shall be broken from his soul, and even the will, that such events may not happen; but that which shall be done shall not be without consequences. That wish was made a long time ago. So much so that, even after World War I, initiatives were launched to set up the International Criminal Court. However, the implementation, which the UN has played a key role in promoting, has been postponed for decades by the Second World War and the subsequent Cold War. The question of setting up a court in 1989 could only be followed by implementation in 1999. Hungary supported the establishment of the court from the beginning, because it considered that it was necessary to bring the perpetrators of the most serious international crimes to justice in order to maintain human rights, peace and security. Our country was a member of a group of 60-70 countries that took the initiative and leadership in preparing for successful implementation. In 1999, the Statute was signed from Hungarian to Hungarian, which was confirmed by a parliamentary decision of 2001 and the instrument of ratification was deposited on 30 November 2001. This should be highlighted because the Statute will apply on the first day of the month following the 60th day following the date on which the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession of the 60th State is situated. The Statute therefore entered into force on 1 July 2002. However, the text of the Statute is still not published in Hungarian. The ratification decision is T/4490. It was constantly before the National Assembly between 2003 and 2006, but it was eventually withdrawn, so the Statute of the International Criminal Court does not formally have an official text in Hungarian that is legally binding to date. The official translation attached to the bill before us fills this gap. The International Criminal Court shall be an international institution with an independent legal personality established in the Hague and shall cover the cost of its activities, its operation, from membership fees paid by States Parties, from voluntary contributions and from the Fund provided by the United Nations. The jurisdiction of the court established after 2017 for the conduct of cases of people accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes shall be added. After 2017, the amendment adopted in Kampala in 2010 will enter into force, which will include the offence of aggression in the Statute. As a result of the Kampala amendment, a wider range of the use of illicit weapons will also become a criminal act by the Statute. The court shall exercise jurisdiction in particular in cases where the Statute is a party to the State where the offence has been committed or where the State concerned by the nationality of the perpetrator. It may also be a different case where the Security Council refers the matter to the court or when States which are not parties to the Statute accept the jurisdiction of the court. The court shall act primarily on matters relating to the international community as a whole, if it is in the interests of the international community and in the interests of the international community, in order to give judgment. This is because it is the responsibility of nation states to prosecute international crimes. Thus, in these cases, it is not the International Criminal Court, but the national judiciary, that has primary jurisdiction. The Statute, i.e. international law, does not replace national criminal law but complements it. On the basis of this principle, national criminal law takes precedence over the accountability of international crime. The court has subordinate jurisdiction, i.e. it can deal with the case only if the national courts are unable or unwilling to act. So far, the court has examined four situations and issued an arrest warrant against 12 persons. The four sites concerned are North Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and Darfur. The court's first trial, which was the trial of the Congolese militia leader Thomas Lubanga, should have started on 23 June 2008, but it was stopped on 13 June, because the judges considered that the prosecutor's refusal to present the potentially acquittal material was a right to a fair trial. Lubanga's trial was resumed on 26 January 2009 and was finally sentenced to 14 years in prison in 2012, as there were clear allegations that Lubanga had recruited children under 15 years of age during the clashes in 2002-2003 into units of the Congo's patriotic forces. This example also shows that the Statute contains internationally agreed procedural principles. Such is the public hearing in the presence of the defendant, the presumption of innocence, the possibility of obtaining knowledge of the prosecution or the means necessary to prepare the defence, and the provision of protection. At the same time, the Statute names a number of important criminal principles, such as the nullum crimen sine lege principle or the prohibition of retroactive effect. The Statute applies to everyone, regardless of the official quality, and it should therefore be ensured that the immunity granted by the law or any other exemption conditionally deferring criminal liability does not prevent the court from prosecuting the proceedings. It is therefore necessary to amend the fundamental laws on immunity requiring a two-thirds majority vote and the law on enforcement to bring the Statute into the internal legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to an important stage in a nearly 100-year process, building work, which we have been doing to protect human rights, human dignity and, in fact, humanity. I would ask my fellow Members to participate in this process with the support of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-6	Thank you, Mónika Bartos. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-25-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill amends several laws to ensure that the Statute is in force in Hungary. By amending the law on judicial enforcement, the bill establishes the legal conditions for the execution of confiscation ordered by the International Criminal Court. Property subject to confiscation shall be owned by the Hungarian State, while the amount recovered shall be transferred to the International Criminal Court. The immunity will not apply to acts under the jurisdiction of the international court which are being prosecuted. Two new facts are added to the Criminal Code. The fraudulent use of protected personal quality: the crime is committed by the person who has given himself to a person protected during the war, thereby deceiving a member of the armed forces or group of hostile powers, or causing serious injury to a member of the armed forces or group of hostile powers, or in such a way captures him. [[9.30]] Public denial of genocide, anti-humanity or war crimes: the denial, doubt, insignificant representation or attempt to justify the crime is carried out by the act laid down in the final judgment of the International Criminal Court or of the Hungarian Court. The speakers before me, Mr Secretary of State, also mentioned that Hungary was actively involved in the drafting of the Statute. The Statute of 15 January 1999, Article 2296/98. Following the authorisation given in Government Resolution No. 13, it was signed from Hungarian to Hungarian. The Statute shall be adopted by the National Assembly at 72/2001. confirmed by a parliamentary decision that the instrument of ratification of the Republic of Hungary was deposited on 30 November 2001 and entered into force on 1 July 2002. A comprehensive amendment conference of the International Criminal Court Statute was held in Kampala, Uganda, in June 2010, where the amendment included in the bill was adopted. As a result of the amendment adopted on 10 June, the use of illicit weapons will become a wider range of offences to be criminalised by the Statute, as a result of their application will also be a criminal offence under the Statute in non-international armed conflicts. The bill also includes the authorisation to strengthen the mandatory scope of the amendment and the publication of the amendment. The court also has jurisdiction over the crimes of genocide, anti-humanity and war crimes in the event of international armed conflicts, and, as a matter of principle, the persons involved in the act of aggression. Detailed definitions of crimes against humanity and war crimes are laid down in the Statute. In fact, the court may exercise its jurisdiction against those who commit aggression only after the amendment adopted in 2010 in Kampala, which entered into force after 2017, which entered into force the act of aggression. In order to incorporate the Statute into the internal legal order, it is also necessary to amend the fundamental laws on immunity requiring a two-thirds majority vote and the law on enforcement. The amendment of the immunity legislation is justified and eligible for the application of the Statute. Several legal status laws impose immunity rules on Members of Parliament, so the amendment of the parliamentary law covers a much wider circle, including judges and prosecutors, as would appear at first glance from the bill. The President of the Republic will be the only public-law office to whom criminal proceedings cannot be brought during his term of office, given that his immunity is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law in accordance with previous constitutional rules, the disturbance of which is not justified in the context of this posting law. The adoption of the Statute also required the creation of two new criminal offences. One declares the insidious murder of persons belonging to the enemy army to be a criminal act, the fraudulent use of the so-called infidelity, protected personal quality in the facts, and the other is the public denial of genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. In addition, the amendment introduces the concept of an operational or occupied area from the facts currently applying it and replaces it with a more justified and more meaningful concept from a defence point of view. Dear Parliament, Members of the Hungarian Socialist Party of Parliament support the adoption of the bill, and we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-8	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-25-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been actively involved in the drafting of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. The Statute shall be adopted on 15 January 1999 in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2296/1998. It was signed from Hungarian to Hungarian on the basis of a mandate given in Government Resolution No. The Statute of the Hungarian Parliament of 72/2001. confirmed by a parliamentary decision and deposited the document before the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 30 November 2001. However, the Statute entered into force only on 1 July 2002, taking into account that, pursuant to Article 126 of the Statute, only after the deposit of the instrument of approval of the 60th State at the United Nations, the Convention could enter into force. However, the Statute has not been published in Hungarian until today, so one of the main aims of the bill is to fill this lack of form and the other main objective is to introduce the 2010 Kampala amendments in order to complement the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the Statute, the States Parties have decided to establish, for the sake of present and future generations, an independent and permanent International Criminal Court for the United Nations, with jurisdiction over the most serious crimes in breach of the international community as a whole, which are complementary to national criminal jurisdictions and is a permanent guarantee of respect for international justice. When establishing the Statute, the States Parties assumed that enforcement of international criminal law would take place in two ways, both through direct enforcement and indirect enforcement. On the one hand, the Statute allows the perpetrators of the international offences covered by it to be held directly before an international court under international law, irrespective of national law, and on the other hand it allows the national courts to bring the perpetrators of the offences governed by the Statute to justice. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the reasons set out above, the bill proposes important amendments to the relevant legislation on judicial enforcement. Following the Statute, the current domestic law of those countries should be amended in such a way that the immunity granted in the laws governing the status of the staff concerned or any other exemption conditionally deferring criminal liability does not hinder the international court in the proceedings. In the present case, this means that only Members of Parliament, Members of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Board of Budgets are required to amend their immunity. Other posts with immunity rights to Members of Parliament will also be subject to the restriction, following the amendment by the bill, that in the case of criminal offences governed by the Statute the liability cannot be waived on grounds of immunity. Among other things, the Statute provides for the punishment of so-called infidelity, i.e. the insidious murder of persons belonging to the enemy army. In this case, the enemy, creating confidence, is held to believe that the perpetrator is entitled to protection on the basis of international rules on armed conflict; this confidence is used by the perpetrator to kill, seriously harm or capture a member of the enemy armed force or group. [[9.40]] It is therefore appropriate to include in the war crimes chapter of the Criminal Code the fraudulent use of protected personal quality. It is also important to provide for a public denial of genocide, anti-humanity or war crimes. An act taken pursuant to point (c) of Council Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law is carried out in such a way that it is capable of incitement to violence or hatred against this group or one of its members. With the publication of the Statute, it will be possible to publicly deny the offences provided for in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute, like the public denial of the crimes of national socialist or communist regimes, by the Btk. You can order it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats support T/10722. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-25-10	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-25-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At first, it seemed that there was a very simple proposal before us, which was only about the publication of it in Hungarian, but when I read this proposal in more detail, I also found some interesting points. But now allow me to start with what has already been said here, why it had to wait so long, why it had to wait 15 years for this proposal to be put before the Parliament to be published in Hungarian. The Hungarian Republic signed the Roman Statute, as we have heard, on 15 January 1999, and ratified it on 6 November 2001. So far, so good, we're looking at a routine. Of course, we are glad that it is true that only XX. At the end of the 20th century, a permanent International Criminal Court could be established. By the way, although this is a historical issue, I do not know why mankind, if allowed to use such great words, almost had to use the XXI. If we are talking about 2001 we are talking about the 21st century waiting for it, and in fact with the entry into force and the ratification of Hungary, then we are talking about the 21st century. We're talking about a century, so why did you have to wait? But at least it has happened, and of course this too is welcome, but less so is the fact that this Statute has simply not been published in Hungarian. I don't know why, perhaps Mr Secretary of State doesn't have more detailed information, or if there is, please share it with us. It must also be seen, and this has also been said, that this proposal was made before the Parliament in 2003-2006. By the way, socialist governments were in power, in case someone did not remember it, or on the basis of the year would not be sufficiently limited, and it is also known that, despite being on the table for three years, more precisely before the National Assembly, if I wanted to be precise, this proposal, after the 2006 election, withdrew this publication in Hungarian; which obviously had to be some kind of political reason or reason, since the proposal was not negotiated for three years before the National Assembly, will not be published in Hungarian, and after the 2006 Spring Election it will be practically off the agenda. I don't know, and maybe this is a conspiracy theory, whether it has anything to do with the events in the autumn of 2006 and whether the socialist leaders might have known what would happen in the autumn of 2006. This is obviously again, Mr Secretary of State, if the Ministry has been able to dig up the files and the documents that are going to lie down, and they find any reference in this, or perhaps the socialists, or, by the way... - I don't see anyone in DK now, but Ferenc Gyurcsány had a serious impact on the events, if I remember correctly, but correct me. So if they could explain this, we might be able to see more clearly why we are so ashamed that the Hungarian text has not been published. By the way, I would have added that it would have been possible after 2010. This was probably not the most important topic, and it has just come up, so, as far as the Hungarian ratification is concerned, this proposal could be presented to the Parliament 15 years later. Of course, I do not want to go into the analysis of the International Criminal Court Statute in detail. I think we all agree with the points that are being formulated in this regard, the persecution of various war crimes, apartheid, genocide, and the establishment of a permanent International Criminal Court, which is, of course, welcome and cannot be linked at all. What raised a little more questions in me, however, is that these passages must also be incorporated into Hungarian law. Some of it is natural, for example, to amend the rules of immunity, which can also be supported. By the way, Jobbik took a stand in favour of the abolition of immunity, and it was also included in our programme in 2010 and 14 - so that for the International Criminal Court, or for someone, although in Hungary, thanks to God, it is not common for them to do such things, but if one does do so, even two thirds of Parliament cannot prevent him from being brought before the International Criminal Court. That's okay, of course, we have no objection to that. However, what was a little surprising to me, or the introduction of it in such a way, was nothing more than the 13th. The facts of the public denial of genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes, which you would like to include in the Btk. And even that alone would not be a problem to talk about, obviously, if there is any clear evidence that it has been committed and that it is denied in such a way, in an instigating way, in a detracting way and in a way that risks happening again, then, of course, there is an opportunity to do so. That's just not what you do. I note in brackets that, since this is already about the publication of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, this passage - and this is described - is not necessarily closely related to this, but - and this is also stated in the law - is intended to comply with Article 1 of the Council Framework Decision of 28 November 2008. Of course, it can be put together in a package, even I understand the context that we are dealing with war crimes here. It's true that here, let's say, a verbal denial. So it is linked, but the reference is different, right, we are talking about an EU law. You wrote that this passage, which is now going to go into Btk, is nothing more than the Council Framework Decision, so it is in line with the 2008 EU Council Decision. In these cases, I am generally not lazy and I look at exactly what this 2008 Framework Decision requires, because in Directives, as in previous Framework Decisions, from one to the other, the Member States have the right to determine exactly what they are incorporating into their own rights. Now, this is where the problems begin, Mr. Secretary of State, because in the facts that you want to include in the Btk., you are using precisely the concept and the punishment system that was incorporated into the Btk. in the public denial of the crimes of communist regimes and national socialist regimes. [[9.50]] Why is that a problem? It is problematic because you would like to be included in the Btk. that if someone has spoken with an international treaty, or has been established by an International Criminal Court or by a Hungarian court, let me not now list crimes against humanity, war crimes, and everything else he denies, questions, makes him appear insignificant, is punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. That doesn't seem to be a problem at first, because why would anyone want to deny it, you can ask. But I ask you, how do you know, or will an ordinary citizen know? Because in the denial of the crimes of the communist system, the national socialist system, it was possible to say - although the fact is not good - that in Hungary there were a lot of events, unfortunately, about which the average citizen knows, learns about it at school, or about where the limits of expression are; now I would not go into the details of this, whether it is exactly right or not, but it is about the legal certainty in this form. In this case, however, we open the gates so wide, in which case a Hungarian citizen does not necessarily need to know what decision he has made in these cases in the final judgment of an international treaty, an international court or even the Hungarian court. Even that would not be a problem anyway, but the fact that there is no extra action in itself to be called into question, or to appear in a minor color, is a little dangerous, so it can include historical research. This is important, Mr Secretary of State - and I propose that an amendment can be tabled by you, and we will also consider it - because the above-mentioned Council Framework Decision says so, and expects Hungary to create a criminal act against a member of a racial, colour, religious, ethnic, group of people - so far - in order to protect, deny, or seriously make a minor appearance of crimes against humanity or war crimes - in the case of violence and hatred, but here comes the additional comment - perhaps the whole affair should have been read - if the action has been carried out in such a way that it is suitable for incitement to violence or hatred against the group or one of its members, and the dog is buried here. We should have included this fact in such a way that it is not enough, let us say, for a professor of history in his dissertation, which no one has denied, let us say, relating to genocide, if, say, 100 fewer or more people died there, in a scientific manner, then, on the basis of these facts, it is possible to punish him with a sentence of three years, which is not required by the European Framework Decision, Mr Secretary of State. It should have been clearly included in this case that it should be suitable for hatred, incitement or threatening the particular groups. So that would be perfectly okay if this had been added. Moreover, even if that were not enough, Article 1 which is referred to also states that Member States may decide to transpose these passages by punishing only an act which is of a threatening, abusive or offensive nature capable of disrupting public order. Thus, another paragraph of Article 1, paragraph 2 makes it clear that, here, EU law requires that the various war crimes, the denial of genocides or the indication of them in a minor colour, in which case this is abusive, inciting. Unfortunately, the Hungarian legislation does not reveal this, and the amendment of the Btk. does not reveal this. Of course, I may not have understood something about it here, but it is quite clear to me that these extra actions or extra intentions will not be included in the Btk. In the future. And although I understand that the D.A.'s office might say that he's probably not going to prosecute a professor because of why he would. Yes, but if you wanted to, you could do it for a research project, for a research project that might affect the rest of the world, and there may not be any group in Hungary that could be affected by this, but someone will outline a topic in a scientific way. Not to mention that, as I said, legal certainty is also violated, because not everyone, every citizen, needs to know, and I think there are very few who, on the one hand, monitor international treaties and the practice of the International Criminal Court on a daily basis, and on this basis, will know what it is that is punishable by three years of imprisonment. So, Mr Secretary of State, if we can bring it into line with EU law or if we incorporate the possibilities of EU law, then this part is eligible, and by the way, this part is half-work. Of course, we agree with the International Criminal Court Statute. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-05-25-12	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent congressman came forward. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-25-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In particular, what was said and, in particular, the speech by Mr Vejkey and Mr Staudt, led me to tie some of the additives to the law myself. Both Members, by the way, have, quite rightly, dealt with the details in line with the gravity of the case. I think that the coming times should make significant changes in this area, in this way, as is the case with the role of an international court that is currently in place. I believe that there are some issues in which, after Hungary - and this is a commendable thing - took the initiative at the time and took the initiative to adopt this Statute, it can take further steps. The lessons learned over the past period seem mandatory after all this time. It is necessary to examine whether the judicial proceedings that have taken place have been carried out without any policy over the past period. Were they unpolitical in such a way that withdrawal of rights from national courts was justified in certain respects? I think, in a decisive part, yes, indeed, these courts have made gaps in decisions. However, there are some parts that I believe are not exactly formulated, and in recent times, there have been new situations for which there is no answer today. That's war crimes. What are war crimes? Do these include the crimes committed by the most modern means and which, in principle, are considered to be murder, according to the human assessment? Why and how will these be brought before the international court? Obviously, only if some amendments are made here in the Statutes. But not only have these instruments evolved, but they have become such a degree that they can be used anywhere, at any time today, either by court proceedings or by the defendant, the suspect, who doesn't even know exactly what he is a suspect, his life may be at stake. [[10.00]] These need to be answered in the coming period. Have we considered what is the situation with the states that consciously withdraw themselves from the jurisdiction of this international court? Do these states, who refuse to submit to these international rules, feel any international pressure that would lead them to participate in this statute themselves? I am convinced that this statute should apply in general, then it has real effect. Furthermore, it is very difficult to say on the basis of the procedures so far, and I think I should refer here to Gábor Staudt's speech as to whether the regulators can be extended and, if they extend, how accurate they must be when there is actually an opinion. When does the opinion become something that can be prosecuted? The precise definition of this is extremely important. If this is not the case, it can be a tool that can be used in a misuse way, not in Hungary, but elsewhere. What is it that if I say something out of conviction and base certain things on my historical knowledge, when does the claim that it is a crime become? You have to be able to draw those limits. If these are not precisely drawn, then my freedom of opinion within history is, in fact, not limited, but completely limited. In this regard, I believe that thought should be given, and in this area it is certain that it would be better to have clarification within the law. We need to think about the following, ladies and gentlemen of the House. If I say today that in 1241 the Tatars did not commit genocide in Hungary, what is this? Can I argue that after 1241 the Tatars swept across the country to what extent have they committed genocide? Of course, they say it, and they're right. Well, every historian says otherwise, and every historian has a different result, and consequently, this discussion cannot simply be excluded from civil life. If we go on in history and look at the events of 1848 and be completely impartial, say, the events in Transylvania where hundreds, even thousands of families have fallen victim to something - what should I call you? What else fits into the definition that doesn't qualify as something that might be a crime? Where are the boundaries? These are very difficult questions, this House, and I do not think that this can be resolved here and today, but I think very strongly that Hungary, and I would stress this once again, with its present authority, with its possibilities, with everything that it has rightly applied to us and to us around the adoption of the law, there is a way and opportunity for these to be discussed and carefully decided. Finally, a short addition. It is not the first time that the various positions on immunity and immunity are raised here in this House. In this regard, I have a very different view than the Jobbik. The right of immunity is, I must say, an instrument of defence, and all citizens interested in maintaining the legal order are defence rights which must not be given up. You can see very well, you can see very clearly that while opposition forces on one side are very firmly, often violently attacking justice, let us say here in Hungary, while one is thinking about what we are talking about, or we do not understand what we are talking about, or we are making suicidal statements, because either one is true or the other. Consequently, I think that it must be made clear, turning back to the law, that the issue of immunity is very important and important. It must be dealt with in accordance with its weight, because if this immunity is lacking, if this immunity does not work or if it does not work well, then those fundamental freedoms in the legislation, in the very places where it should prevail, cannot function. Finally, to sum up, this House, I am very pleased to see that the government is now doing what is needed. This statute must also appear in Hungarian, and every citizen must understand and know what this is all about, that Hungary will take a clear and clear stand against any international crime, any genocide that I believe has been committed in the past, unfortunately, in the present, and which is possible in relation to its strength and potential, will also do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-05-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I thank you for the support speeches that point in the direction that there is a broad consensus in this House on the adoption of this bill. Some questions were actually raised here regarding the entry into force as to why in 2006 the then parliament or the then government had thrown them off the agenda, and they are obviously able to answer precisely what intentions moved them on this matter. One thing in particular, the Btk. 333/A. I would like to reassure my fellow Member Staudt that in point (b), he denies, questions, makes him appear insignificant, so that he relates to these cases. Obviously, scientific research is not affected by this issue, but if someone, let's say, fantasizes that without judicial decisions, let's say, we will rehabilitate politicians who have been convicted of previous systems, or make them appear in a favourable light, or we are debating events that have happened, there are judicial judgments on them, they can only be debated and challenged in any way. That's what it involves. With regard to the transposition of the framework principle, it would obviously lead to infringement proceedings if EU legislation were not followed by the internal legislative process, but obviously, in the context of the Commission's and the detailed debate, we could also address the issues related to these amendments. Thank you again for the support and the word. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain employment laws for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. Government referral T/10720. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-25-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains amendments to several laws. The amendments are necessary for two reasons: on the one hand, compliance with certain EU directives and, on the other hand, the technical reasons for the practical application of the laws contained in the proposal. The European Union regulates in the Posting of Workers Directive the requirements that undertakings must meet when providing services in another Member State. According to the Posting Directive, posted persons should also be provided with part of the working conditions provided by the host country, i.e. the Member State of work, including compliance with minimum wage and maximum working time provisions, as well as rules on health and safety at work. [[10.10]] The Posting Implementation Directive, which facilitates the implementation of the Posting Directive, also serves the protection of posted workers and also provides economic operators with fair conditions of competition in the single internal market. In order to avoid any abuse, a notification system should be established for the countries transposing the Directive. This makes it easier to control posted workers. The Directive contains elements of the official control of posted workers and the penalties to be applied in order to eliminate illegal situations. In order to ensure consistency between the directives and the Hungarian legislation, the proposal extends the scope of the Labour Control Act, which in future will cover the foreign employer who sends an employee to Hungary to provide cross-border services. For certain rules, employers not covered by the Labour Code will also be included in the scope of the law. These are rules which are imperative under private international law and provisions which cannot be derogated by agreement under the rules of the Labour Code. The proposal designates the labour authority as the competent authority under the Directive. In order to implement the Directive, it complements the rules on checking the work of posted workers in Hungary, the conditions for imposing fines, cooperation between the labour authority and the competent authority of the Member State of the European Economic Area concerned, as well as the obligation to declare and report a service provider with the right to provide free services. The latter legislation is intended to monitor effectively compliance with the requirements of the Directives. The amendment of the Law establishing a European Works Council is also necessary to comply with an EU directive. In the event of the adoption of the proposal, the scope of this law will also apply in the future to the worker employed on the maritime trade vessel. Ladies and gentlemen, The government should monitor their practical application and make use of the experience gained by carrying out its tasks in the preparation of legislation. The Government proposes to amend the Labour Protection Act, the Law on the Status of Civil Servants and the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund from this consideration. On the one hand, the amendment of the OSH Act required technical reasons and consistency with the Civil Code and the Labour Code. In this light, professional reasons mean that the amendment of the rules directly and indirectly serves to improve the OSH situation and thus protect workers. The deadline for publication of the annual report on the state of occupational safety of the national economy ensures that the OSH Directives for the following calendar year are drawn up taking into account the practical experience gained. The amendment of the law's rules on personal protective equipment creates a higher level of protection for the worker. This requires not only the use of personal protective equipment but also the proper use of it, as opposed to the legislation in force. According to the amendment, the occupational health doctor may, depending on his decision, contribute to the investigation of a work accident. However, in the event of a serious work accident, this does not depend on your decision, but is bound by the law. The proposed amendment reflects well-functioning practices already applied in many places, according to which all occupational accidents are investigated by occupational safety professionals. Lessons learned from work accidents investigated by professionals provide professional support for preventive measures to reduce the number of work accidents. This is also an economic issue, as it is estimated that the total cost of work accidents at social level is at the rate of 100 billion per year. Employees' representation is strengthened by the provision that requires the organisation of the OSH representative's election by employers with at least 20 employees instead of 50 so far. According to an international study, OSH representatives are elected in many European countries in the case of a smaller number of workers. The regulation also ensures the objectivity of the work of the OSH representative, since the employee representative cannot be an employee with OSH functions. The amendment also addresses the problem of the obligation to retain the election of representatives only for workers covered by the Labour Code. For example, the regulation did not apply to a sector with a significant number of workers and dangerous ones such as health care. Similarly to the rules on mining supervision, the proposal also provides for the possibility of sanctioning the failure of workers. This should be a significant deterrent to employees' violations. The possibility of applying an administrative fine is expected to reduce the number of employees' violations, thereby reducing the number of work accidents and occupational diseases. Of course, the employer's objective responsibility remains unchanged. The proposal creates consistency between the classification system of the Law on the status of civil servants and the changed training concept in order to ensure uniform and easier application of the law. The current provision of the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund, which is affected by the amendment, has caused problems in practice. The reason for this is the interpretation problems arising from the recent change in the rules on payment of wage guarantee support. The amendment will clarify the due date for the recovery of the aid. The new legislation makes this decision establishing the aid legally binding. The amendment of the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits, as proposed, is of a clarifying nature. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that, on the basis of these, and reading the bill, you will agree with the government and then vote in favour of the amendments, together with recognition of the need for them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Tamás Sneider wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President Tamás Sneider should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the present and visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-19	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 1996 the European Union adopted a directive on the free movement of services in order to address issues relating to the movement of workers. According to Directive 96/71/EEC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, posted workers should also be granted part of the working conditions provided in the host country, i.e. in the Member State of work, including compliance with minimum wage and maximum working time provisions or, for example, national rules on health and safety at work. However, over the past decades, different judicial decisions have been taken concerning posted workers, which have made it necessary to review their applicability, to create new EU legislation aimed at improving the enforcement, implementation and practical application of the basic directive. With the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007, Eastern Central European service providers and Member States where the Western European minimum wage is also attractive to workers have appeared in the Single Market. The result is the millions of Central European migrant workers in the richer Western Member States, with a minimum wage of 3-4-5 times the minimum wage in the countries of Central Europe. Despite the fact that the number of delegates per year is still small compared to the whole EU labour market, service providers in the Western European Member States consider the situation as social dumping and unfair competition; they consider that companies employing posted workers are pushing them out of the market at a cheaper rate and that posting is eroding the level of labour protection in that Member State. [[10.20]] Dear House, Unfortunately, there are abusive behaviours in addition to a number of legitimate businesses with the possibility of providing free services. In recent decades, a very large number of mailbox companies have been established in Member States with lower wages and lower contributions obligations, which only belonged to the Member State of establishment and do not engage in activities there. Workers posted from there could work in another Member State for virtually unlimited periods of time under lighter conditions under previous legislation. In order to address infringement situations, the Implementing Directive aims at enforcing the basic rules on posting, setting out the criteria for posting situations which Member States authorities are obliged to monitor in their procedures, laying down a system of liability for the outstanding benefits of posted workers and regulating contacts and exchange of information between Member States' administrations. Dear House, In order to regulate the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, the European Union has laid down in the Posting of Workers Directive the requirements which undertakings providing services in another Member State must meet. In order to facilitate the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive, the European Union has established an implementing directive for related labour inspections and has set a framework for cooperation between the bodies responsible for national labour controls. The purpose of the Posting of Workers Directives is to protect workers in the posting situation and to ensure fair conditions of competition for economic operators in the single internal market. In addition to the definition of the conditions, the Directive lays down administrative requirements for service providers established in another Member State, for which the Labour Control Act provides for a notification obligation for undertakings sending out to Hungary, specifying the content of the registration and laying down official control measures, laying down administrative requirements and penalties. The Directive provides for a duty of cooperation for the authorities and organisations responsible for national labour controls in order to improve the cross-border implementation of the Directive and to clarify its practical application. The electronic notification system and communication between public authorities and competent bodies are an effective, rapid way of dealing with international legal assistance, enabling, on the one hand, the control of undertakings providing services and, on the other hand, the detection of possible circumvention of legislation and the enforcement of sanctions imposed. Dear House, In conjunction with the government's bureaucracy reduction programme, the possibility of introducing electronic administration is reduced in the OSH legislation, making administration and OSH notifications simpler and faster. The purpose of the amendment is also to amend the Law on OSH to clarify the application of professional and law in order to ensure uniform and easier application of the law, and to amend the Law on the Status of Civil Servants, Kjt. its classification system will be adapted to the changed training concept. Dear House, The T/10720. We support the bill amending certain employment laws on the part of the Fidesz faction for harmonisation purposes and propose it for adoption by the other groups in this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-25-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In agreement with the speakers before me, they have said the purpose of the amendment of the bill, and I obviously agree with them. The Socialist Party has always considered it an important issue to represent the interests of workers. Well, there are a number of positive and negative things in this package of laws, and I would like to comment on content issues in some respects. In the future, in order to finance the programme under the pre-financing of the National Employment Fund by means of an EU resource, funds not used for the year in the final staff of the NFA may be used after the reference year. The job seeker's activity and registration as a job seeker are interrupted if the job seeker takes part in training supported by the public employment body or organised by the public adult education institution. The amendment replaces the concept of a public adult education body with the concept of a public adult education institution. This is an extension amendment, one of the consequences of which will be that more unemployed jobseekers will be able to be removed from the statistics, but, of course, also that the road to training and qualifications will become more and more widely available. In the context of the management of OSH, it is a state task at present to review the national economy's OSH situation annually and to publish the findings that have been formulated there. With the adoption of the proposal, disclosure as a public obligation shall cease in this legislative paragraph, replaced by a new paragraph setting out the report on the state of the economy's OSH, the Minister for Employment Policy shall publish it by 30 September of the following year. In the future, therefore, reports on the annual state of OSH will be known to the general public by a nine-month delay. To date, work at a workplace where employees were employed at the same time by different employers had to be coordinated in such a way as not to pose a risk to workers and workers in the scope of work. He was responsible for this, inter alia, for the general contractor under the Civil Code or for whom the work was carried out. In the future, the law will remove the liability of the main contractor or of the person to whom the work was carried out, instead of the employer or the person or organisation, as defined in the contract by the parties, who exercises effective control, or who bears the main responsibility for the workplace, if not, the person in whose territory the work is carried out. The point of the amendment is that the main contractors are removed from this group of debtors. The proposal states that, in the future, employment in excess of the permitted level of exposure is considered as a serious risk to the worker's life, physical integrity or health only if it is done in the absence of the necessary protection. In the context of these provisions, a new condition is added to the legislation under which workers' physical integrity or health will be seriously threatened by the employment of fewer workers than required in the rules on occupational safety in the case of work in dangerous workplaces, dangerous work equipment or dangerous technological processes. The bill also brings positive changes for workers. With regard to the use of protective equipment, workers will need to be provided with these tools in the future, and workers should be trained and required for their proper use. In the event of a work accident involving incapacity for work, a new element appears that the medical contribution to the examination will be decided by the doctor of the basic occupational health service. [[10.30]] In the event of a serious occupational accident, the doctor of the occupational health services shall take part in the examination. In the event of an investigation of a measure or omission, an occupational disease or an increased case of exposure to a worker, the occupational safety authority will conduct the procedure of its own motion on the basis of a worker's notification. The rules of the OSH representative's choice also change positively for workers. Normally, you can currently choose a OSH representative from an employer where Mt. the number of workers covered by this Regulation shall be at least 50 persons. In the future, this rule will change by holding an election of OSH representatives for all employers where the number of employees is at least 20, i.e. the number of employees, and not the number of employees, for example, who belong to Mt. the employment protection position of workers will be improved, and the previous 50 staff limit will be changed to 20. The proposal also states that in the future it is not possible to become a OSH representative who carries out OSH tasks with the employer as the main activity of an employer in the framework of an employment relationship. The proposal precisely names the rights set out in Mt., which ensure the labour law protection of the OSH representative, similarly to the protection of trade union leaders. In the future, the authority may fine an employer who violates the rules governing the healthy and safe pursuit of or control of the work or who tolerates the non-compliance with those rules in his duties; who does not fulfil his obligation to register, investigate, report and report in relation to the accident in due time, disclose false data or conceal or prevent the real cause of the accident; who does not fulfil his or her obligation to provide information on occupational diseases, cases of increased exposure, or prevents the investigation of occupational disease, increased exposure; as an employer's representative prevents the OSH representative from exercising his or her rights under the OSH rule; or takes measures which are detrimental to the exercise of his or her rights against the OSH representative. Under the amendment of the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund, the time allowed for the submission of the winding-up balance is increased from the current 60 days to 70 days. This is also a positive change. In the future, as regards the amendment of the Labour Control Act, the scope of the law will be extended to employers established abroad and sending workers to Hungary for the purpose of providing cross-border services and Mt. to employers not covered by the legislation of private international law, as well as the legal provisions from which Mt. According to its rules, no derogation can be made through the agreement. According to the amendment, the labour authority will be designated as a competent authority in Hungarian law, under which the labour authority will be given control powers to monitor the work of a worker posted in the framework of the provision of cross-border services in Hungary, as well as to effectively comply with the obligations of cooperation between the labour authority and the competent authorities of the EEA State concerned, as well as with the obligation of the service provider with the right to provide free services. The labour inspection shall cover the monitoring of the keeping of records; Mt. This is provided for in the chapter on work and rest periods. According to the bill, the registration as a job seeker is suspended if the job seeker is involved in training supported by a public employment body or organised by a public adult education institution. This gives the State another opportunity to reduce the number of registered job seekers by administrative means. In the future, there will be a greater difference between statistical records and the numbers in reality. An annual review of the national economy's OSH situation is a legal obligation today. In the future, this obligation will remain with the condition that the OSH report will be available after 9 months from the end of the reference year. With the adoption of the amendment, the main contractor's obligation to comply with the OSH standards in the construction site will be terminated. In the future, this task will be taken over by subcontractors or by those in whose territory the work takes place. The OSH authority may, in future, consult not only the employee's health records but also his identity data to investigate and register occupational accidents, occupational diseases and increased exposure cases in order to conduct the official procedure. This is due to the electronicisation of occupational safety notifications. With the cessation of the OSH authority's powers of infringement, a worker's failure to act shall not be sanctioned against a worker who is effectively in breach of the rules in order to ensure that, in addition to the employer's liability, the exclusive irregular work of workers can be sanctioned by the authority. The proposal also introduces the possibility of applying an administrative fine. In view of all this, the Socialist Group will abstain from the legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-25-23	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10720 amending certain employment laws for harmonisation purposes Legislative bill No.3 amends, first, the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed, second, the law on the status of civil servants, thirdly the Law on the Protection of Labour, fourthly the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund, fifthly the Law on Labour Checks and, sixthly, the Law on the establishment of a European Works Council and the establishment of a procedure for informing and consulting employees. The amendment of the laws outlined above serves a specific objective of harmonisation of laws, since the bill aims to transpose the relevant EU standards into the Hungarian legal order. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Union has laid down in the Posting Directive the requirements which undertakings providing services in another Member State must meet. The mission directives aim, on the one hand, to protect workers in the posting situation and, on the other, to establish a level playing field for the Union's internal market. The technical conditions for cooperation are provided by the Internal Market Information System, the IMI system. The Social Renewal Operational Programme was completed in 2015 and the launch of the new programmes made it necessary to change and supplement the basic management regulation by naming pre-financing appropriations. Ladies and Gentlemen, Freedom of movement for workers, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services are fundamental principles of the Union's internal market, even if the principle of freedom of movement has recently been significantly impaired due to the migrant invasion, since waiting for 2-3 hours within the quasi-existent borders within Schengen puts workers in a very difficult position to start work. [[10.40]] The aim of the further development of the other principles is to cover this disadvantage, but it is also obviously to try to ensure a level playing field for businesses within the EU and to guarantee respect for workers' rights. The freedom to provide services includes the right of undertakings to temporarily send their own workers abroad to provide services in another Member State. The basic employment rules and conditions clearly defined for such workers should be laid down. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us amends the Hungarian OSH regulations on several points, the election of the OSH representative and the rules on labour law protection. The OSH authority may, for the reasons and to the extent necessary, obtain and manage the identity and health data of the workers concerned, as the processing of work accident reports is the responsibility of the OSH authority. It is important that employers consult employees and their representatives on all issues relating to safety and health at work. With the entry into force of this provision, the election of OSH representatives should be organised in accordance with the law for each employer of 20 persons, and the legislation on labour law protection for OSH representatives will also be clarified. The bill regulates the control powers of the labour authority, regulates the conditions for imposing fines for the control of the work of a worker posted in the framework of cross-border service provision in Hungary, cooperation between the labour authority and the competent authority of the EEA State concerned. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, I consider it necessary to note that, under the proposal, it is appropriate to apply different rules in relation to the activities of the labour inspectorate on employment in the prison context. In addition, the proposal provides for the implementation of Article 21 of the 2003 Act. It also extends the scope of law to workers on maritime commercial ships. Ladies and Gentlemen, I will conclude my speech as Chief Speaker in the hope that the bill for harmonisation purposes discussed here will improve the effectiveness of OSH legislation, and therefore the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the T/10720 on the amendment of certain employment laws for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-25-24	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-25-25	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The bill before us, although in its title for harmonisation purposes, also includes other areas in its content. Overall, most of the amendments provide for understandable, timely and positive changes. Allow me to highlight some proposals and to draw attention to some shortcomings. We agree with him, we consider it a logical proposal for the XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants. the amendment of Law 1 to name graduation in the context of secondary education, separated from other secondary education. It should be supported that, in order to create OSH, responsibilities are more specifically identified in cases where workers employed at the same time by several employers are employed. The amendment excludes the possibility of harming the employee in these cases by pushing the responsibility back and forth. We can fully support the 14th. As stated in Section 2 of this Article, workers, representing their rights and interests in relation to safe work, which do not endanger health, should continue to be elected as OSH representatives for all employers, where the number of employees is 20 instead of the current 50. This will hopefully increase OSH protection among workers and small businesses. We consider it acceptable to extend the scope of personal data processing as well as a more specific definition of increased exposure. We believe that the closure of the loophole that was set out in Article 30 should be supported. § treats. According to this, a labour fine will be imposed even if the employer fails to comply with its reporting obligations. We find it satisfactory that, in the framework of harmonisation, the institution of the OSH representative appears to be strengthening. We also believe that the provision relating to the European Works Council promotes the domestic work of interest representatives. Dear fellow Members, However, I think it is necessary to draw attention to one critical remark, and also to recommend a deficiency to them. I regret that there is a narrowing of the amendment on the annual reporting obligation of the Minister for Employment Policy. According to the current legislation, an annual review of the national economy's OSH situation and the disclosure of the findings are required by the law. However, the amendment requires a summary of only one report for the Minister. In my opinion, it is feared that the very point will be left out of the summary, so I suggest that we continue to insist on the publication of the full report. I think it's the 21st. This would not be a problem in the technical circumstances of the century. In closing, allow me to draw your attention to some of the shortcomings that, unfortunately, they are not willing to address, although if it comes to employment and OSH, a large part of the population would expect you to do. Let's see what your reality is. The current reality is that you have withdrawn the acquired rights from employees who are in a job that is harmful to health with one single stroke of the pen. You've taken away the opportunity to live a normal life from disabled people at work. In your opinion, virtually no compensation or compensation is now due to an ambulance, firefighter, driver, miner, and a long list of professions in this area. You also do not support the retirement of men after 40 years of employment, but rather rehabilitation, disability benefits, or perhaps the worst, sending these men away for community service. The end of their careers means that after 40 or a few years they have to work as public workers with extremely low earnings, while they have been the most hardworking members of Hungarian society for long and long decades. This is the end of many tens of thousands of people's careers today. [[Gábor Bányai: Don't be ridiculous.]] right now in Hungary. I worked with them myself, Congressman. Go to community service, you can come with me, and then you'll see how many public workers we'll be working with, who was a driver and only 58 years old, but you can't work because you're sick, and you have no choice but to pack wood or do any other useful activities. [[Gábor Bányai: That's right!]] But for very little money. I think you know that without even being in an environment like this. There is another reality when it comes to employment. We have to face the situation that is typical of Hungary today, that there are virtually 1.5 million people living on minimum wage, which is, we know, below the current minimum living standards. [[10.50]] Why is it important to mention all this in this bill? Because when it comes to safety regulations and issues, prevention is one of the most important. And this can be solved not only by administrative matters, but also by allowing workers to relax, they have the opportunity to introduce recreation into a career process, which is completely natural in Western Europe, but in Hungary it does not exist. There is no such thing as a teacher or a social worker, which may be even more appropriate, for two or three months to rest and forget the miserable life situations that he encounters every day, although his is often more miserable in current terms of payment than those for whom he works. But it's even more valid than physical work. Clearly, if a person has to work in multiple places and does physical work at the same time, it is perfectly natural that he will have a much easier accident at work. Unfortunately, the general state of the Hungarian economy leads to the fact that there is no living on wages, no raising a family today from an average Hungarian wage, so the workers are overworked. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when the government comes up with administrative matters, which, I repeat, is positive, so we can support this bill overall, because, in addition to one or two of its negative features, there is a clear desire to improve in this area, these things must also be addressed. I would ask the government, Mr Secretary of State, to include these in the thinking that OSH should develop in Hungary, that there should be fewer accidents at work, that people should not be burdened. We may be able to achieve even more with this kind of administrative regulation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-25-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to what the MSZP and the lead speaker of Jobbik have to say. The legislation before us is an amendment to employment law. On occasion, Parliament tends to make the mistake that when it comes to the transposition of an EU directive, it sees this as a form of formality. I think this is a mistake, because it is always a matter of substance, especially when it comes to the world of work and the situation of workers. The amendment amends six laws, which, in my opinion, are the most important: the Law on the Status of Civil Servants, the issue of OSH, the issue of labour control and the Wages Guarantee Fund. Obviously, this is for legal harmonisation purposes, and we are transposing the EU rules into the Hungarian legal order. I also consider it important, and I stress that employers consult workers on safety at work and health protection issues. Jobbik's representative spoke in an effort to allow men to retire after 40 years of service. I think that this is all good and good, but I have one question: when the government has tabled similar regulations on women, why you have not supported and voted against it in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Mr. Vice President reporting. You have the floor in two minutes, Vice President Sneider.
u2016-05-25-29	I just want to give a brief response to my colleague Zsolt Nitrai. Jobbik abstained from the vote on the possibility to vote on women's retirement after 40 years of employment, because we have tabled a number of amendments that would have broadened this option. These opportunities have been rejected by you, and we obviously did not want to prevent it, and we are even happy about it and we support the fact that this has been done. However, we are not pleased at the fact that it has been left with such discriminatory elements, even to this day, in this bill, that if a person is entitled to a care fee for his child, it can be counted as a 40-year employment relationship, but if he is caring for his husband at home for a number of years, then this employment relationship can no longer be counted. This is absolutely unacceptable! Although I think it is quite clear in every family that the child is the most important and not the parent and the husband, he is the second, who should theoretically support the family, yet it is unacceptable that it is precisely the government that makes laws about keeping the family together, and is trying to support it in words at least - but there are measures like this, of course, which must be recognised as a family tax benefit, which we also supported - that they are the very ones who make the difference in this respect, and that today, if a wife takes care of her husband at home, she will surely be in a much, much worse situation, because she will only be able to retire years later because she has made this sacrifice, which we think would be natural. And there are a lot of other things that could be classified, and that's all I wanted to say as an add-on. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For two minutes, Mr. Gábor Bányai will have the floor.
u2016-05-25-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not part of the opinion of the Vice-President on the subject. I apologize for yelling at him, but according to the statistics, the proportion of public employees over 55 is 14 percent. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. I ask Mr Vice-President to press the normal button, because I can only give you the opportunity to speak normally under the Rules of the House, but of course I will give you the opportunity to do so. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-25-33	I wanted to be quick, I didn't want to miss it. I agree it's 14 percent. This means practically only 30,000 people in Hungary after all. I was talking about this 30,000 person, who, at the moment, is the peak of his career after he was a driver, bus driver, firefighter, or paramedic - and I could say that he still has to do this kind of work. That's not what 30,000 people deserve, I think. That's what they need to change. We have made a number of proposals to prevent these workers, who have worked for forty, forty or a few years. I would like to ask you, Member, to make sure that this is not the career of these men in Hungary for their last working years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-25-35	I'd like to make an extension. Congressman said that one of the last goals of millions of people's lives could be a community service programme during the 50-year-olds' work, which you suggested as a nightmare. He was talking about millions of people, and I just wanted to say that's not their number. [[Tamás Sneider: That's not what I said.]] But you said there were millions of people. That is not true, however, which is what I wanted to show you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-25-36	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, the rapporteur, wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-25-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because I would like to clarify the misunderstandings expressed in the speeches and, on the other hand, I would like to thank the leaders and speakers for their thoughts. It can be said that most of the speeches were about support. This is true even if the lead speaker of the MSZP finally announced that they would abstain from voting. Nevertheless, he supported the proposed amendments, with the exception of one point, throughout his speech. It is indeed a harmonisation of laws and, in addition, using this instrument, the bill is about how to clarify certain points, how to make the legislation more applicable. I would like to clarify the misunderstanding that was expressed in the speech of both the MSZP and the lead speaker of Jobbik, and this is the OSH report, a summary or the possibility of leaving it. I would like to clarify that and read it, because I do not think that colleagues have properly read the amendment proposal. That's what this pass is about the OSH report. [[11.00]] Article 6 Section (e): annual review of the national economy's OSH situation, summary of the findings in the report, establishment and operation of the OSH information system. So this is a state task in the framework of occupational safety management. Another paragraph goes on: the report on the state of the national economy's OSH - not a summary - is published by the Minister for Employment Policy by 30 September of the year following the reference year. So the idea or suggestion that it might be possible to do that the annual report will not be published is wrong. In fact, it should be said that by setting the date of 30 September, i.e. a date, the law requires that, if Parliament accepts how long it is necessary to do so, inter alia, so that the next year's plan can be properly set out. I think it is not my job to respond to campaign-like ideas in the second part of the speech of the better-speaker, but they did not belong here, they did not belong directly to this legislative amendment, so I would not want to comment on that. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you all for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T-10729. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-25-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The legislative package before us amends several laws, partly in the field of public education and partly in the field of higher education. The principle of directing changes to the public education system is the tasks to be solved during the establishment and operation of the public education round table, the processing of the experience gained during the transformation of the public education system and, on this basis, our common goal is to improve the system. On 9 February, at the first meeting of the Round Table on Public Education, he identified the measures needed to improve the functioning of the public education system and scheduled their implementation. In doing so, the first priority group included the transformation of the functioning of the public institution-keeping system, the review of funding, the implementation of decentralisation, organisational flexibility, processes, management level operations, the review and re-regulation of the powers of public institutions and schools, public education institutions, the role of the public institution-supporting and operating authorities, the resolution of the problems arising from the separation of the two functions. This bill contains legislative amendments to the above objectives by requiring, of course, further amendments to the implementing legislation for the full implementation. Therefore, not all of the measures that are being presented are found in the law, but only the legal basis for further construction. The first is: the State Institution Support Centre, Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre, will be replaced by district centres acting as state maintainers as independent budgetary bodies. The public education institutions maintained by the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre will be the departments of the district centers, keeping their legal personality. In the meantime, no previous institution will cease to exist or be transformed. Ensuring the smooth functioning of the institutions is a fundamental requirement. With the establishment of the nearly 60 school district centers, decision-making levels will be closer to those involved, as many cases will no longer have to be dealt with in the Centre, but will be resolved locally. The employers' licenses of the heads of public education institutions maintained by the district centre are extended, in which they are granted the right to propose or agree on the most important issues, such as appointment or dismissal. Between the district centers and the minister responsible for education as managing director, a mid-level management organization, the educational centre enters. Since, on the one hand, it is necessary to maintain a central organisation due to the size of the public education organisation and, on the other hand, to ensure uniform management and operation at national level, it is important to understand that this organisation is not the current organisation and that operational decisions are no longer taken at this level. All operational matters affecting the lives of schools will be decided in the district centers. Since the establishment of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre and the role of operator, continuous problems have been caused by the separation of maintenance and operator functions. So we had to find a solution to that, too. According to the bill, maintenance and management tasks are merged at the school district centre, so there will be a unified management once again, as the heterogeneous system cannot establish a function in which the responsibilities and responsibilities of each organisation would be completely clear. An important further element of the amendment to the National Public Education Act is the extension of the teacher's promotion system to staff directly assisting educational and educational work with pedagogical qualifications in pedagogical training institutions, as at present this applies only in the educational and educational institution. It is also important that the first rating obligation imposed until 30 June 2018 has been repealed, so that everyone can move forward in the promotion system at their own discretion. The bill also provides an opportunity for financial recognition of quality work. Several forums, including the Round Table on Public Education, trade union negotiations, have identified that some elements of the current career are not optimal, as it does not provide an opportunity to recognise different performances, in this sense it is too rigid. In order to ensure that, taking into account the framework opportunities provided by the central budget, the maximum possible amount of generals, wage increases for all teachers and differentiations based on the individual performance of the educator, the difference between the coverage of the education allowance increase on 1 September 2016 and the education allowance increase on 1 September 2017 can be transmitted to teachers from 1 September 2017 on the institution-leading performance basis, distinguishing between teachers to different degrees. This means that the school principal may decide to continue operating the current system, not using this option. If, on the other hand, the institution, the community of the institution, decides to do so on the basis of performance and competence, then we have created an opportunity to do so. However, different rates of salary and wages should not be established solely in the discretion of the head of the institution, and therefore - subjectivity should be excluded - the proposal provides for the introduction of a competence-based and performance-based evaluation system and the evaluation of teachers on this basis as a guarantee rule. The detailed rules of the system will be laid down in an implementing regulation. It is a very important element, however, that we want the school to operate this system under its own authority, under the direction of the school principal. In addition to the changes of strategic importance described, the bill contains, of course, a number of elements that are necessary for the continuation of processes that have already begun and for the experience with the application of the law. These include, for example, the provisions on skills development school, the mobile pedagogical network or, for example, the labour law consequences of maintenance change. The bill also amends the VET law. This amendment also became necessary as a result of the functioning of the Round Table on Public Education and a number of consultations with professional organisations. These include, on the basis of social feedback, the need to allow students to take the sectoral vocational examination from 2017 to mid-level from May 2017. An important element of the amendment to the VET Act is the increase in the decision-making powers of managers in vocational training schools as member institutions of vocational training centres. The basic principles for the compilation of the budget of the centres are defined, the forms of trade union consultation and the tasks related to certain maintenance powers in the departments of the vocational training centre for workers. The proposal clarifies the concept of first and second qualifications, indicating that professional qualifications acquired in training supported by the State form the basis for the calculation. The amendment to the VET Act also states - by clarifying the previous provisions - the freeness of vocational examinations in vocational training in the school system in the case of third-party vocational training. The draft requires that the student contract concluded in the 9th grade expires at the end of the academic year, thus giving the student the opportunity to transfer from the teaching workshop for practical purposes only to another economic entity for further practical training. Practical experience has shown that there are typically no full conditions for practical education in the case of specific professional qualifications in the field of practical education, so it is appropriate to provide for compulsory training at the school premises, the financing of which is provided for in this amendment. [[11.10]] A series of amendments apply to higher education and higher education law. The operation and educational and training tasks of Hungarian higher education are defined by the Act on National Higher Education. The Nftv. - within the limits laid down by Article 10 (3) of the Fundamental Law - the aim is to increase the quality of higher education, to create the necessary conditions for obtaining competitive knowledge and to ensure the functioning of the institutional system. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In December 2014, the government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the document "Training in Higher Education" which defines the tasks needed to develop performance-based Hungarian higher education. The Nftv. Amendment 3 contains provisions on these objectives and rules to facilitate the continuation of processes undertaken in higher education and changes to be made on the basis of experience in the application of law. One of these elements is the transformation of the higher education institution network. In accordance with the Act of 2015 amending Nftv., from 1 September 2015 the primary institutions of higher education, the university and the college were supplemented with a new institutional form, the university of applied sciences. From 1 August 2016, the Royal Zsigmond College, which meets the legal conditions, will continue to function as a university of applied sciences. The chancellor's system and the experience of the consistorial operation justify the statutory setting of detailed rules that may ensure the functioning of state higher education institutions in individual circumstances of personal and corporate obstruction. The current Nftv. it does not provide for a leader acting in the event of the lack of office of chancellor, and for the failure of the consortium to take a decision or prevent its operation. The draft clarifies these situations. We have also made a number of amendments to certain procedures concerning the functioning of higher education institutions. We propose the establishment of a framework for the supply of public tasks not covered by the core activities of higher education institutions, which cannot be included in the conceptual scope of the provisions on the functioning of the public education institution and health service provider as laid down in Nftv., but the need to ensure a specific order of operation is well founded both from a management, management and organisational point of view. The institutional recognition of higher education excellence is structurally transformed. Institutional excellence is adapted to the recognition of the excellence of students and teachers, and it is therefore necessary to adapt the current provisions to the new system. The bill initiates a qualification of the research faculty, research university and the college of applied sciences. From 1 September 2015, the Nftv.'s system of rules for the university of applied sciences is in force, in view of which the maintenance of parallel regulation is no longer justified. At the same time, the system of excellence will be made available to institutions, persons or disciplines, but not to institutions, in this way on the basis of awarded excellence students and teaching scholarships, on an excellence basis, institutions will be supported, which should focus on research. The draft clarifies the specific operating framework of the András Pető College, given that the special training structure of the college is Nftv. justifies the application of rules other than the general provisions governing higher education institutions. Some proposals for farming activity. We are initiating a uniform definition of the legal provisions governing the management of public higher education institutions. The amendment of the management rules is also justified by the introduction of rules on the electronic auction system, in addition to the precise regulation of institutional activities in the company. The bill clarifies and creates the conditions for the operation of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education and the Hungarian Doctoral Council as legal entities. The legal personality and public benefit of the MAB is still regulated by law, while the regulation needs to be brought to a legal level in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code. The legal entity of the ODT, the Hungarian Doctoral Council and the provision concerning its public benefit are laid down in this proposal. The Nftv. include the annual rate of the Republic scholarship. According to the proposal for an increase in the norm of the Hungarian scholarship awarded by the Minister for the recognition of the best students, for the remuneration of students achieving outstanding professional performance, to support the achievement of further outstanding results, the rate of the scholarship varies from HUF 340 thousand per year to HUF 400 thousand per year. At the same time, the name of the Republic scholarship is changed to a national higher education scholarship. In Nftv, the 41st reference to the regulation of the aid period is made. Pursuant to §, a person may, as a general rule, conduct studies in higher education for 12 semesters, as a Hungarian State Scholarship or as a scholarship student. The period of support shall not exceed 14 semesters if the student undergoes undivided training, and according to the training requirements the training period exceeds 10 semesters. In order to be able to acquire art teacher qualifications as a Hungarian State Scholarship student, students studying art courses, as well as 283/2012. they can complete their studies in training supported by a Hungarian state scholarship in certain teacher training courses as defined in the government decree, and it is appropriate to introduce an exceptional rule in terms of the number of semesters that can be used and supported. As part of the arrangements for organising higher education training, the proposal includes amendments to the legislation on full-time training with such a content that the minimum number of hours is at least 200 lessons per six months instead of 300 lessons, which does not exclude the possibility of a higher number of hours by means of more flexible regulations, but allows the duration of the occupation requiring less personal participation of the instructor. The aim is to build student self-employment into more active training. The draft simplifies the detailed rules on the operation and registration of non-state higher education institutions operated as public benefit organisations. In order to internationalise Hungarian higher education, the conditions for launching joint training with the foreign higher education institution will also be clarified. I wanted to mention these very briefly, and I would ask you to support these proposals. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-25-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-25-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill before us, as the Secretary of State has just mentioned, proposes to amend several paragraphs of the Act on Vocational Education, the National Public Education Act and the National Higher Education Act, with particular reference to the issues, problems, which are presented as a task identified by the Round Table on Public Education, or the results of the processes that have already started in the past, in order to clarify or amend the legislation. I would like to point out, quite briefly, the following in relation to the changes to the VET Act. Basically, there are changes based on social feedback that were also before the round table for public education and actually dealt with practical matters taken from life. For example, it will be possible to carry out the mid-level examination of the sector's professional qualifications to be introduced from 2017; the proposal clarifies the concept of first and second qualifications. As the Secretary of State pointed out, it makes it possible for the student contract concluded in grade 9 to expire at the end of the academic year and thus for students to go to economic organizations alongside or instead of the workshops. If there is indeed an aspect of vocational training related to practical life, this is clearly the case. It also clarifies that only in the form of an apprenticeship or in the case of practical training under a cooperation agreement, the student is entitled to a cash benefit. It records in the member institutions of vocational training centres the decision-making powers of managers, their extension, the basic principles of budgets, the forms of trade union consultation, so any day-to-day cases that come up again and again in terms of their responsibilities in life. It shall record the tasks relating to each maintenance authority. The National Public Education Act, if I may put it that way, is perhaps the most serious part of this whole package of laws. It can also be said here that it contains a set of problems identified during the negotiations of the Round Table on Public Education, which were identified as the fastest, if you will, among the tasks to be resolved on 1 September 2016. [[11.20]] Indeed, this includes the transformation, decentralisation, organizational flexibility of the CLIK's operation, the development of a kind of management approach. It re-regulates powers both in relation to public institutions and schools, as well as in relation to public institutions and municipalities. The State institution-keeping centre shall be replaced by district centres acting as state maintainers and independent budgetary bodies. They continue to function as units of the public education institutions with a state reserve as legal entities with a framework management, thus bringing decision-making levels closer to those involved. The head of the public education institution maintained by the district centre will have management powers within the budget, as well as employers' rights. According to the bill, the state maintainer will merge its maintenance and operator tasks, and a unified maintenance management will be established. In the mixed system, the responsibilities and responsibilities of each organisation have not always been clear, and this is Article 38. According to the wording of the section, the right of trustee is now being taken over, but the owner remains the municipality. The details of this will have to be regulated in separate contracts, as each municipality and school is different. In connection with this point, we will also submit some clarification proposals for the relevant paragraph. The proposal also aims at extending the educational attainment system, extending it to staff directly assisting educational training in pedagogical training facilities. This has only been done in educational institutions. In recent months, trade unions' demands have included the financial recognition of teachers' work on a qualitative basis, the return of a differentiated financial benefit. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § creates the condition and possibility of this. It is said that the head of the public education institution may determine the salary of the teacher, by way of derogation from the salary of the teacher for the academic year, by stating that the salary thus determined must not be less than the projection fund provided for in the Central Budget Act, which, subject to qualifications, contains certain percentage values, this is clearly stated in the law. While there was, therefore, a kind of movement in the system of allowances, the bonus moved, this means that it represents a kind of mobility in terms of salary. This is calculated at 4-5 percent. Previously, in the case of allowances, this movement, if expressed as a percentage, was much larger. The bill deals with the issue of specialized schools for the development of skills, the development of legislative standards for mobile educational and mobile conduktor networks, which I think is also very important. Indeed, the legal parts on national higher education concern daily university management and operational matters when the Chancellors or the Consistoriums are dealing with issues related to their operation. That's 53. §, which applies to the performance of a public task not covered by the basic activities of the State higher education institution, essentially outlines the part that I think it is very right that a separate department should be established for this purpose, precisely so that the different functions are not mixed. This is particularly important in the field of medical training, because medical education and care have always been mixed up over and over the past decades, what we fund, how we manage it, and so on. The separation of these is not a simple task, but the legal possibility of these may also be easier to deal with in this respect. That's 50. § 2 contains a statement on the so-called key institutional qualification of higher education, which is essentially an obligation to continue under the international treaty, since the idea outlined by the Secretary of State that excellence and ties to scientific performances are essentially implemented through persons and groups of researchers is still guaranteed. In fact, the funding will go in this direction much more specifically. On the other hand, they have two institutions with other conditions under an international treaty, such as Andrássy and Pázmány. Where appropriate, the previous legislative provisions must be retained in some way. The fact that the MAB and the Hungarian Doctoral Council become legal persons is particularly welcome, and not only because the weight and role of the respective bodies is clear and higher, but let us not forget that from now on, as they become legal entities, of course, they also have to take responsibility for their decisions, if you like, at a higher level. In other words, they may not even be suable in one case. I particularly welcome the fact that, simply put it, I continue to use the name of the Republic Scholarship, the increase of this, and it is also particularly welcome that it has a kind of accession to the legislation already adopted, namely the transformation of doctoral training, and the increase in scholarships linked to doctoral training. In essence, in the field of higher education, the portfolio follows a consistent, methodically, step by step very serious talent-care, talent-supporting program or strategy, which is an incentive specifically towards quality. I believe that the great strategic objective of higher education, which the Secretary of State presented much earlier in the committee and in Parliament, is a step in this task. We very much welcome this. And, of course, also technical transfers to ensure that higher education institutions that comply with the law can continue to function as universities of applied sciences. Actually, I'm thinking about King Sigismund College. It is also mentioned in this law that Pető András College continues to function as a state college. In the past, there were all kinds of actions, not in any case without political overtones, about what and how it would be done. Apparently, his fate will be settled comfortably and in the long run. I would like to ask Members with respect to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-25-43	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This salad law, which is before us, is a certificate of poverty for the government performance of the education government and Fidesz. For the last six years, what they've done has been completely ruined in this area. Remember? The KLIK is a real success story. Well, it's such a success that by now, the situation has gone so far as to announce that the KLIK will be abolished, because this system has not worked, where it is converted, and now it is specifically multiplying, but most of all you have no idea what to do, because you have no idea how to fix or correct what you have done wrong, but unfortunately you have no idea where the world's education is today, what debates are taking place in the education sphere of the modern world. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Tell me about it.]] But I don't think you're interested in that. Their narrow, stupid, sour and umbilical mentality doesn't allow that. [[A voice from the benches of Fidesz: What is it?]] We've been protecting you from centralization. We told you this was gonna be a big problem. But you arrogantly and stubbornly kept saying that the KLIK will be transparent, manage well and work effectively. On the other hand, in front of the whole country, it turned out not only to be transparent, but their own people are complaining that there's chaos in the institution. Not only does he manage well, but he has accumulated enormous debts while the schools he took care of began to run down. The KLIK has become a hotbed for corruption and office packing. It's a great lesson to your authorial government and authoritarian government that even if you put your own fidesz people there, in a system that is already wrong, they simply cannot function and operate properly. [[11.30]] They say smart people learn at someone else's expense. Well, that wisdom doesn't sound like you either. You can't even learn from your own failure. A CLIK is now creating 56 CLIKs, but why 56 is a mystery to the whole country, but following the same centralised logic as before. They say they're decentralizing the system and trying to solve the damage to the over-centralization you've already admitted. Unfortunately, that's not true, and it won't. It's the same concentration as before, precisely because of the centralized logic. It's nothing more than a kind of decoding. They should finally understand that, as long as individual institutions and schools have no autonomy, there is no normal, not a few thousand forints of room for manoeuvre, but a normal budget, a normal self-management right, so that the school can obtain money from more sources, all schools will hang on a source, a umbilical cord, a state with a permanent deficit economy. Here's the dog buried. Furthermore, despite the increase in public education budget resources in 2017, the reality is that, firstly, they have barely been able to compensate and pay the debts accumulated so far by KLIK, and the 2017 public education budget, increased by inflation and wage increases, does not reach the 2010 level. And the biggest problem is that before 2010, the hundreds of billions of HUF spent by the municipalities on their schools are incredibly lacking in the education system. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, Not the municipal system, but not even the mixed system, but the KLIK and your stupid, nationalised concept failed. It was all concluded that the state was a good farmer, despite the fact that the state leg of the mixed system had fallen. But now they're announcing total nationalization. Well, you really don't see it: the fact that only a part of the schools actually started to go down was due to the fact that the municipalities, where they were still operating, were holding their school's hands and often replacing what the KLIK had long been unable to provide? Can't you see that local governments can do their jobs smarter, faster and cheaper? In this context, a municipal forint is worth much more than a state forint. And so on, where's the money? Where's the money for the restructuring? Where's the money for later maintenance and operation? Because we don't see it in the 2017 budget, but neither does the president of the KLIK. There are vague promises, references, but no money, no guarantee. They couldn't take care of the schools, they couldn't take care of your state that you've been taking over. What is the guarantee that the 2851 institutions we are about to take over will be able to provide, maintain and operate well? That's why we and the mayors in the country, both the Fidesz mayors and the municipalities, said that our institutions and our schools will be 30th. Of course, I hear that, indeed, ownership will remain with the municipalities, and they will have a well-conceived interest in taking care of their institutions. But I'm asking you, how? What, when the municipalities are terrified that they're going to take a lot of money away from them again, and they've already taken a lot of money from them. No obligation, no interest, no money. Over the past year, countless municipalities have taken their schools back from the Klebelsberg Institutional Center when they saw that only unpaid bills were collected, equipment was incomplete, there was no stallion, and maintenance was very hard. Smarter, more efficient solutions were made; now they are totally, totally desperate. Dear Fidesz, Why am I nationalized? For years, we have simply not understood why the state is putting itself through a lot of problems that the municipalities had been able to solve well. Completely different means and methods should have been used where the municipalities were poor. But even the central reservation does not justify you completely taking away the autonomy of the institutions and turning off the logic of self-administration from the system. Because your state, by the way, in health care, pension systems and everywhere else, is clearly very stupid and narrow-minded, not strong, but violent and helpless. It is powerless, because they have no idea what they really do, what children and all of Hungary would need in Hungary. You're still changing the lights on the Trabants while the world leaves us on Mercedes. We should be doing a creative school and teaching kids programming by now. Do you know, my fellow Members, that in September 2016, so this year, you are going to the first generation of schools who were born after they launched the iPad? It changes our lives, changes the lives of the children. These kids can read video files before they write, while you're pushing stupid state emancipation books, and they're free, if they're full of stupid books. Parents are forced to buy not only English and IT in a special class, but also Hungarian, math and history, because they simply do not get the knowledge in the Fidesz state school system that is needed for real life. There's something you've been looking at, and it's hit the middle class pretty hard. The middle class, who really go to school for nothing, parents buy knowledge a long time ago. We got there in 2017, if you have money, you get good health care, if you don't have it, you don't. If you have money, you get a good education service; if you don't have money where you were born, you're going to die. The middle class, who has been isolated from higher education, is being forced into a demented vocational school system, where children do not receive a sufficient amount of public education, nor do they receive quality and professional knowledge. Even the profession and the entrepreneurs do not send uneducated barbarians to the workshops, because we have nothing to do with them. In the previous example: today, a mechanic can't just have a wrench and a hammer, because they don't build Trabants and Wartburgs, but Audis and Mercedes. Without language and IT skills, a mechanic can't do anything. But for you, a skilled worker is simply a cheap labour force that can be delivered to the primary interests of capitalism. They don't see the skilled worker as a citizen, dear Fidesz. Professional workers are not considered to be part of civil society. Sadly, the picture of a poor and mediocre country emerges from this overall. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] I understand that politics is not about good governance, it's about people's lives, it's about stealing some money projects. Finally, I believe that András Lánczi, a newly appointed rector, is right when he said that Fidesz policy is about stealing and corruption. [[Noise, uproar, and interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties, among them: But he did not say so.]] I'd like to add that the impression of their government performance is the KLIK, which means it's a big zero. [[Noise, uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-25-44	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congresswoman! [[11.40]]
u2016-05-25-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have become accustomed to the fact that when the laws on education are being debated in Parliament, passions are getting a little higher than usual, and opposition parties prefer to develop their own concepts and make statements without proving them with facts and data. Here, too, we have heard a series of these, so I think it is important to tell you now how the Christian Democratic People's Party sees the legislative package ahead of us and how it feels about it. These are three amendments to the Education Act, all three were born in 2011 or after. Five years have passed since then. The science and practice of organizational theory agrees that if a major system is to be transformed, it will eventually show its positive, negative sides and, of course, it will have to change after a while. A large system like the education system can only be made with a decade of running out time to make sure it works well. In my view, in our view, this has happened now, although the changes have been a little accelerated, enforced by the largely politically motivated wave we have seen since the beginning of January, and in which a opposition politician has not personally been at the forefront of the protests and demands of which part, the technically acceptable part, can be read here in this package of laws. I'd like to make one more general comment before I get to the details. Today, in Europe, in particular, the issue of education for democracy, the education of a democratic citizen, is given great emphasis around the world. In international forums it is a subject of discussion. Dialogue is the most important instrument of democracy. For us, it was a rather important lesson from the previous period that the self-proclaiming forces who were at the head of claims were shut down from the dialogue because they did not participate in the work of the round table of public education, which was a huge effort by the leading minister, Mr. Secretary of State and the staff, and which was successfully completed or clearly continues, as there will always be and will always be questionable and controversial questions of public education. Let's look at some specifics. I would like to point out from vocational training, in contrast to what we have heard earlier, that skilled workers are not regarded as equal citizens by the government. A series of measures are implemented by the VET Act which significantly improves the situation of young people in vocational training. Such is the freeness of the third vocational training examination mentioned by the Secretary of State, the cleaning of the school profile and many others. There is no question that professionals who control vocational training do not know that today we no longer install Trabants with keys and hammers, you know that most of them come from practice, and that the transformation of vocational training is just to make sure that we finally have a vocational training that meets the requirements of the 21st century. The needs of the century. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is still a great deal of debate around the preparation, compilation and content of the framework curricula. It is a very difficult question, and I do not think it is likely that there will be a set of plans - as this has never been before - with which everyone is satisfied, but I think it is important that in these framework plans the students must also know the world, they must be well informed in the world, so they must be very careful about the omissions and the contents that are included. This is not the subject of the law, as the framework curriculum is usually issued by ministers, but I would rather have just said here that this would have to be done very conscientiously, carefully and preferably well. I myself was pleased to call the former specialized schools a skill development school. It is good to have a name covering the content of that institution, and it is also a profile cleaning in the field of vocational training. I would now like to move on to the issues of public education that have caused the media and the sky to sing since January, and this is mainly about the Klebelsberg Institutional Center. I do not know what the authors of this statement base the statement that state institution maintenance and centralization are from the devil. After all, they may well know that there are school systems that work that way, not badly or in any way, but very effectively. In itself, it does not follow from municipal, local or central school maintenance and operation that it serves a high or low quality. And it may not be unnecessary to remind students that, before 2010, the school system maintained by nearly three thousand municipalities produced such huge differences in the municipal system, such shortages, such a series of unsatisfying irregularities, that this is why the government decided - and also because it wanted to strengthen the role of the state for good reasons - that the state would play a greater role in the school system. I am aware that I will not be able to convince some opposition parties or thinkers of this serious contradiction, just as they will not convince Christian Democrats that it is better to return to the municipal reserve. Life will decide, it will take a few more years for this school system to show its results, and we hope that those voices that are invaluable or non-printing or scrubbing signals will then fade away from today's education management workers. Without an organisation that does the work of institution maintenance, a public school system cannot be implemented; I think that is evidence. Now the structure and good operation of this organization, among other things, is what I have just implied that this will take a decade to figure itself out. The CLIK, which has worked so far, has contained a lot of opportunities and has made many mistakes. What was the root of these mistakes? Simply put, I would highlight two factors. Indeed, the budget was not good for the KLIK, which resulted in the deficits which the state had always made up for, but caused annoyance, a tension in the area that would explain the many protests that we had witnessed. Therefore, for the future, one of the most important things or lessons to learn is that the current institution-keeping budget must be calculated very carefully, maintained, so that it cannot happen that there are unpaid accounts, and so on. In this new system, knowing the budget figures, we have the opportunity, but we have to keep track of it all the time, because the school system is like an organization, that anything can get sick in it at any time, and it costs money to fix and cure it. The second lesson that has been mentioned here in Parliament is that the KLIK system has worked very well in rural areas, especially in many places. Therefore, the success story does not need to be mentioned sarcastically, but it must be seen that, for example, in Békés County, Borsod County, Somogy County, Tolna County, I know areas - and I am sorry that I do not mention them all - where both the schools and the KLIK employees and the school environment were perfectly satisfied with the operation of the KLIK. [[11.50]] This means, therefore, that errors were not caused by the system, not by the organization, but probably by the lack of money, where these errors occurred, and perhaps by the inadequacy of the human factor. Therefore, in the new system, in the 56 district centre - which we naturally support - one of the most important tasks is to ensure the right funding framework, but equally to ensure that the selection of people, people and workers there is thorough, thoughtful and good. Because it can work well in the county of Békés on the same principles, and poorly in the next district of Budapest another district, if the employees there take the work lightly or are not conscientious enough. What still needs to be made clear about the KLIK: most of the problems occurred in the districts, in schools where the maintenance was KLIK, and the operator was the municipality. These two gentlemen's servants, or other sayings, are true, we know that sometimes they cause problems. There is no problem where human quality, human attitude, is such that basically the willingness to help motivate the school's work and clog the holes there, agree on the problems, and there is no conflict between the institution that now pays for the photocopy paper. Where the attitude of the local government is not exactly like that, because he has a different conviction or was offended that he is no longer the school's maintainer, the problems piled up and multiplied. Therefore, its operators and its maintainers, which have two tasks only theoretically, but still very difficult to separate, but in practice there are problems on a daily basis, we approve. It is not worthy of the school's cause, of raising children, of the fact that the KLIK and a local government are dragging their way to pay for the package of photocopier paper or the photocopier cartridge, when these are mostly bagatell items. From then on, if there is a lack of photocopier paper or a photocopier cartridge somewhere, the state, i.e. the district, will have a right to blame it on its failure to do its job. I would like to highlight from the amendments to the Public Education Act many, many changes dealing with children with special needs, which once again proves that children, children at a disadvantage, children with disabilities, children with disabilities have a very high government responsibility, a good mobile educational network and so on. I would like to give another consideration here that the school district centers - from which we know 56 will be - will be the maintenance and operators of the schools, so in a sense its managers, in addition to or above the schools, perform leadership tasks, although in partnership, because this is just the right thing to do. From this point of view, it might be a good idea to include the staff of the study districts as government officials, since they represent the government there in the appropriate regions. I can only confirm what Congressman Pósán said that we very much support the increase in the amount of the Republic's scholarship and its relationship with the doctoral scholarship. To conclude, it is therefore necessary to change from time to time the things that have been created by the predecessors with the best intentions and the best knowledge, democratically, with a majority vote, so many, many people's opinions have always been so. They say that only one thing in life is permanent, and this is change, so it is necessary to change the laws, but it is also necessary to be permanent. In particular, I would recommend considering that the names of each type of school should not be changed too often both in terms of higher education and in terms of public education. People's thinking follows these changes more slowly, and it is good for parents and children to know what they can expect and what they mean from one type of school or another. I wish you the best of luck with this new system. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to the importance of the upcoming National Basic Science Plan and Framework Lesson Plans, which will trigger many storms again, and rightly so, because everyone expects to put in what they think is very important. Furthermore, to conclude, I would like to ask for education management to take care of small schools. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the opportunity for one minute has been given to the President, and I have used it in the case of the Member. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-25-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, one of the biggest or perhaps most important amendments to the Education Salad Act is this, which concerns the KLIK, or makes it possible or compulsory to remove the right to operate from the municipalities. I think this is not just a paper problem, and it is not only a matter of pushing or pushing the bike, but also of clarifying fundamental points of view in this regard, and I would like to take the liberty of doing so in the first part of my speech. If we look at how the education system was built in 2010, then we all know and we have said many times that its selectivity was very high in international comparison, it was very decisive in terms of the quality of education, the financial situation of the locality in which the school is located. This influenced the level of education in the institution. This situation had something to do with it. Your answer to this was that the schools were held in a state reserve, and they said that this provided adequate funding and balanced financial opportunities for schools, so that the exposure of schools to the government's management and financial situation was much more reduced. In theory, it is possible that this thesis could have worked, but at the same time this bill inserts the last nail in the coffin of the KLIK and shows that this change in this form was quite simply inoperable. By inability, I do not mean daily chalk problems, but that basic aspects that determine the lives of schools have simply been ignored, which should have been taken into account when making changes. If we want to make the Hungarian education system, public education, successful in the long term, we need to ask the question of the role of the state and the role that we intend to play for the municipalities in terms of the relationship between the state and the local authorities. Does it have a role to play, whether it is justified for the municipality to have an effective presence in the school's life? Your answer to that is that there is no. You say in this bill that the municipality cannot be present in the education system not only as a school maintainer, but also as an operator of the school. I think that's a wrong answer. If we look at the reasons for the state reservation, I do not dispute that the State has the right to participate in the education system as a maintainer, but there are also municipalities that would also have the right to participate. And if Zoltán Balog said that the KLIK had pushed the bike, then I understood it as such, and I very much hoped that you would also consider that the role of the municipalities should be strengthened. But this is not what is happening, but they will be withdrawn from the role of their current operators, even in this form they will not be able to be present in the life of their own schools. [[12.00]] I think that's a mistake. There are schools that could operate better in municipal maintenance, provide higher quality education for children and higher quality working conditions for teachers who work there than that which the state can provide in such a more decentralised way, but also in such a more decentralised way. If this thesis is accepted, then the task of education management would be to create the criteria on which municipalities can return as maintainers to the system of education, but not because they do so, but because of the daily operational problems caused by the fact that the state is the maintainer, the municipality is the operator, so that the overshifted bicycle is pushed even further and the municipalities are excluded from operation. It's a mistake professionally. On the other hand, let us look at the budgetary aspects. It was announced with a huge banner on how much more money will be spent on education in next year's budget. Different numbers flew from 140 billion to 270 billion. But if we apply these numbers to public education and add that now the operator will also be the State, then we see that the budget must, as appropriate, increase the cost that we find in the KLIK, because if KLIK will now also carry out the operating tasks of the municipalities so far, then the financing of this will have to be granted to KLIK. But the fact that if they lose tasks that have worked and have been insured so far, and the money is assigned to it, it does not mean extra funding, it just means that so far the task is transferred to another place, so the funding is transferred to another place, but this does not mean additional funding compared to what has been. On the other hand, in previous years, KLIK's budget had to be supplemented with tens of billions of HUF each year during the year. This was explained, and this explanation is somewhat appreciated, that since schools have been operating in a fragmented system of municipalities, they have not been able to predict over the years how much money is needed. I am opening a parentheses: the underfunded, let's say, was present in this, but I do not want to take it in this direction, but the same will arise during the operation. If you have said so far that you did not know how much the reservation costs, and now you plan a certain amount for the budget next year, but now it is the same in the case of operation, you cannot know how much money the municipalities have spent on operation, so perhaps the funding that will appear in the next year's budget as a surplus at KLIK will overall be less than what the state and the municipalities have spent on the lives of the schools together, because they have no idea how much they have spent so far. If you have no idea how to maintain it, it's the same with the operation now. So it is not certain at all, you do not know whether the surplus that appeared during the KLIK will actually be surplus, or otherwise in 2017 we will spend less on education and public education than we spent in 2016. Therefore, due to the difficulties in planning, it is irresponsible for the government to say that next year the Hungarian state spends more on education. No, you don't know that either, and the experience of all these years, the fact that the KLIK budget had to be supplemented by tens of billions in every single case, suggests that it will be the same in the next year. But if we are to clarify these fundamental issues and the decentralisation that we obviously all know, I would not like to criticise the operation of the CLIK so far as we are concerned for the n+1th time, we all know that this was necessary. However, with regard to the amendment of the Public Education Act, it is important to draw attention to another very important, but minor, issue, which is the question of therapeutic educators. So far, the law has allowed teachers to work at a teaching place with other pedagogical qualifications in the case of extracurricular occupations. In 2014, a national survey was carried out of the number of such posts, where they work in a medical pedagogical place with other pedagogical qualifications in the case of a non-educated profession. There are 644 people who do this kind of work, 250 out of 644 also work in other places; and the number of job vacancies in the institutions, and this was 411 in 2014. These data are also available in the Education Office. I ask you, Secretary of State, to consider changing the fact that these educators have to get a professional degree in order to keep this post. An eight - half - year course is about 2 million forints, and obviously this can be very, very difficult to manage from a teacher's salary. If these teachers can no longer be employed because this regulation is so inflexible, then these posts will be vacant, and those with other pedagogical fates who work there will not be able to perform these tasks, and they will obviously find it very difficult to employ them elsewhere. With regard to vocational training, there are a number of amendments that are obviously to be supported, broadening free delivery and other solutions that, I think, can be seen as a legal gap so far, with which there is no problem. If you have already mentioned the VET Master Plans, I would like to address this briefly and once again not to take a position in the specific daily political debates, which we have already done before, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have not clarified the fundamental questions about VET, such as what feedback is coming from the market. The feedback is that vocational training is not sufficiently exercise-oriented and should therefore be stepped up in changing this system. On the other hand, we see that Article 21 The challenges of the 20th century can be addressed by skilled workers and can be competitive by skilled workers who have basic skills and can acquire basic knowledge. These two aspects should be strongly reflected in the VET framework. But what is the situation now, what is market feedback, and what are the forecasts in the long term that we can say that we are able to release competitive skilled workers from vocational training, this debate has not been carried out by politics, we are ad hoc tossing with different subjects, with different hours, but the fundamental issues have not been clarified in this respect. But since, as Rózsa Hoffmann also said, the bill does not directly affect this issue, I would not go into detail now. There are also some comments on the Higher Education Act that I consider necessary. Mr Pósán spoke about the increase in the Republic's scholarship, which is, in any case, extremely timely and we very much support the fact that this is happening. However, I would like to point out that the increase from HUF 34,000 a month to HUF 40,000 does not even reach the level that this scholarship provided in 2008 in real terms. This would require a monthly sum of HUF 44 thousand for this scholarship, so we initiated in an amending proposal that at least this amount, which was available in real terms to these truly excellent students in 2008, should be guaranteed by the government. So don't stop halfway or halfway forward, but let's give it a little bit, bring it back to the 2008 level in real terms. On the other hand, if there is already an increase in the Republic's scholarship, it is also necessary to say that the selectivity of higher education and the extent to which entry and residence in higher education are determined by the financial situation of parents and their educational attainment, we can see that in 2015 higher education was more selective in this respect than it was in 2007. One of the reasons for this may be that, in the case of residence, it is of the utmost importance that the scholarships for study and social affairs have not increased since 2007. Since 2007, it has been stable, and since then the value of this has deteriorated a great deal, and this is extremely important in the everyday life of students, in maintaining their lives, financially and for families, so we have also tabled a budget amendment proposal to increase the amount of the student's scholarship by about HUF 9 billion in order to increase these scholarships after 2007 at least ten years. [[12.10]] I think it was timely. At the same time, if they are already included in research and development issues, they could be included, and there are a lot of disputes or doubts that could be resolved if this corporate operation of student services could be clarified, even at a legal level. So it would be good for the Secretary of State to consider the possibility of doing so. Overall, since it is a salad law, it is very difficult to say that it supports or does not support a party, because there are parts of it that we can support, parts that we cannot support, and parts of the basic issues that I have been trying to outline in my speech, there is a fundamental difference between the positions of the government and Jobbik, and therefore, overall, we cannot support this bill in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Speech by Mr István Ikotity, lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government has not learned from the lack of education policy in recent years. In my speech, I will also address content issues soon, but we cannot go without saying a word about technical solutions. As the bill was presented, as it is now being discussed and accepted, it perfectly reflects the cabinet's attitude towards education. So far, educational salad laws have been submitted on a regular basis, and it doesn't seem to have changed at all. The legislation is patched up and patched up, as if it would improve anything, and not permanent carves, but basically new regulations are needed in the fields of public education, higher education and vocational training. The method perfectly shows the government's attitude to protests over the past few months. They are trying to tell us that the now submitted thick school salad law was the result of the negotiations on the round table for public education, while the changes announced and now being made in the draft legislation expose the government themselves. While they are really smuggling in some of the elements that have been requested by the participants in education, they are going on the path that has caused the whole series of protests to start at the beginning of the year. They were looking for the right moment, the time of graduation exams, when such a proposal could be pushed through. Hundreds of communication and power tricks have already been used, and, if you will, the presentation of this proposal can be regarded as such a fidesz catch. Let us first look at the most important part of the paper submitted. The bill states:. The public education institution operated by the municipality on 31 December 2016 will be free of charge property management of the district district centre on 1 January 2017 according to an inventory of all municipal assets and property rights for the purpose of performing the public education tasks of the local government. All rights and obligations related to the public education tasks performed, as well as movable and immovable property, shall be understood as being the property for which the public education task is performed. The district centre and the operating local government shall act in mutual cooperation in the implementation of the measures relating to take-over. So it was a quote from this material. This provision means total nationalisation of schools. Fidesz-KDNP also takes away the right to operate schools after the reservation. The municipalities will then have no say in the lives of the institutions, and their remaining rights will be lost. The measure concerns precisely 2851 institutions, especially larger settlements and metropolitan districts. This will take place in the middle of the academic year, from 1 January 2017. The same thing was played once at the KLIK set up, it was in the middle of the school year, and the result was chaos. Total nationalization of the school system means three things. The Fidesz-KDNP government is pushing the bike back into socialism. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] The former secretary of state, the Member, defended this system earlier - I will discuss this in detail later - and I think that she is obviously socialised there, and she can do so easily as a member of the MSZMP. The model of total nationalization worked in the Kádár system, but there they began to relax over time. With total nationalization, Viktor Orbán also reverses the change of regime in a sense. The Fidesz-KDNP government was not telling the truth about the KLIK's termination, and it finally revealed that the establishment of the public education round table was just a puppet theatre. They faked negotiations while the new bill on total nationalization of schools was a feverish draft. The government's exclusive will continues to prevail, and no one else can interfere with education policy. We think - this has also been said by my fellow Member - that various representative bodies and trade unions have not appeared at this round table meeting, it seems very much that time has proved them to be very right. After all, it is a round table where the government goes against what is discussed there in certain cases, and the Minister's announcement of what will happen before a meeting of a public education round table, I think that this fully justifies the view that it is not really worth going to such a round table, it is just a puppet theatre. And I'm not judging the organisations that appear, because they themselves are increasingly discovering that they have been set up, that their inexperience has led them there, because in many cases that is the case. The nationalization of schools also anticipates another KLIK failure. Why do we say that? The total nationalisation of schools has also shown that the 2017 budget for education is a big bluff. So far they've been communicating that there's more money for education, and now it turns out that it's not true in this way, in this form. While next year's budget will give KLIK HUF 77 billion more, total nationalization of schools would cost another HUF 100 billion a year. That's what the municipalities are now putting into paying school doormen, changing lightbulbs, renovating buildings, developing. However, this source is not given to KLIK, so the new system starts with a deficit of HUF 23 billion, and the 77 billion plus is not really needed to carry out the current tasks, so it is not necessary to undertake any extra tasks. Nor is it true that the municipalities continue to develop schools in the area, as the state now wants to take all movable and immovable property, which will cost free asset management. How would the municipalities undertake to develop schools? And how would they do that? The resources of the municipalities have decreased considerably in recent years. Minister of State László Palkovics spoke yesterday about 55 billion HUF extra funding, which is necessary for the nationalization of operation and operation. He said that the budget law contained a relevant item, that the government provided the funds. But what was the Secretary of State talking about? Where is this source named? What is 55 billion forints? And what budget? Is this the present or next year's plan? 'Cause we couldn't find this, unfortunately. Let's keep moving. The fact that in the future, it will not be a big CLIK, but 57 small CLIKs, or, as you will call it, a district centre, will not make any difference to the fully nationalized school system. Local residents will have no influence on local education, no decision to appoint school directors, no decision to order textbooks, no decision to derogate from curricula, no decision to develop. There's no help from these, uh, loosen-ups that are mentioned in the bill. The directors will not be granted any rights of employer, as they will only have the right to propose, and if the district leaders disagree on three occasions with their proposal, their will will will continue to prevail in the future. [[12.20]] This brings back the system, as I suggested earlier, that things can be solved by telephone, a telephone to Budapest, as many people in socialism have experienced. In contrast, LMP represents a completely different model of maintenance. We would also like to say here, we suggest that the municipality that requests it should be able to recover both the maintenance and the operation of these institutions, because this is how a sub-subsidiary model can be implemented. And we believe that public responsibility also has a role here, because if there are settlements that do not want to do so, then the state model can work. We think that this would be an effective and intermediate solution, which does not mean a return to the liberal model before 2010, which we do not think is good, but the model that is outlined, which has happened in the last five or six years and which is now being outlined, is also not acceptable or useful. As we have said before, a fall from one side of the horse to the other is happening now, and we do not consider that a good solution. The salad law would also lead to a number of minor and major changes to the VET Act. They realized that there were serious problems with dual training, so that in some cases compulsory training at the school was required. The May Other Politics has long said that it is not dual training that is wrong, but that the government is trying to force it through the entire education system that everything does not have the basic conditions. Successful dual training cannot be based solely on the government's kind large companies. Without Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, practical education cannot be strengthened. However, in the SME sector, they are still struggling to survive, and in many cases they are unable to receive apprentices. The change is that the sectoral vocational qualification exam to be introduced in 2017 will also be allowed at the mid-level. The problem is that one of these measures is about to end the single graduation. I am thinking about the debauchery of vocational schooling, which I would like to mention later. The operation of vocational training centres will be further refined, the mix-up around employers' powers will continue, but despite the extra licenses given to the head of the institution, their hands will continue to be tied to the employment of employees. They do not want to give back the autonomy, responsibility and autonomy of vocational training institutions, but instead they form complex and bureaucratic rules. Of course, LMP would also return these to the municipalities. We believe in county and capital reservations instead of state reservations. In the last few weeks, there have been two important topics in the field of vocational training, which, however, do not appear directly in the bill, but it must be mentioned here. One aimed at the debauchery of vocational secondary schools by eliminating, more precisely, the education of public knowledge. They're doing the same thing they've done with vocational schools a few years ago. Looks like the government is handing out full vocational training to the Oligarchs near Fidesz. They need young workers who get out of the school bench and get into assembly plants next to the tape, at low wages, and rob all day without the possibility of moving on. There is no need to develop public knowledge, skills and competences because they do not want to give them the opportunity to change careers and learn more generally. This is what Viktor Orbán's work-based society is about, disposable disposable workers are coming, and all of this is now the 21st. In the century, on the threshold of robotics. Mr Secretary of State knows precisely that the sectors on which we are now trying to build, on which we are trying to train workers, are being roboticised. Unfortunately, this also assumes the responsibility of the current government, for which it will not be able to account in a few years or decades, that simply robots will take over the place of the people they are now forming alongside the assembly line. Consider - not an example of the automotive industry, which could then be discussed a lot - today's news is that Adidas' sporting goods company closed production in Germany in 1992, and now re-opens its plants in Germany as a result of robotic technology. Thus, robot technology will increasingly bring you back to work in the base countries, and obviously fewer workers will be employed. The second step I would like to say in the area of vocational training, although it affects fewer students in vocational secondary schools, it is important to talk about it. It's an impossibility for foundation training institutions. It is a long process, the final stage of which is the nationalization of foundational vocational schools, the taking of their autonomy, and their forced entry into the state vocational training centres. The government has tried to pull the carpet out of non-state schools with a number of measures. In the previous cycle, a new grant scheme was introduced, in which only a fraction of the previous institutions were supported or tried to reduce their budget support by reducing the funding of teachers' wages. The latter will be completely removed. In this government cycle, the nationalization of vocational schools came. With the salad law establishing next year's budget, the entire sector is kept in uncertainty with the lack of definition of the additional service. I would also like to talk about higher education after public education and vocational training, but I will do so in my next speech. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-25-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. Mr Szabolcs Szabó will speak. You have the floor.
u2016-05-25-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As has already been said here, perhaps László Pósán said that the most serious part of this educational salad law is the Public Education Act. I totally agree with him. So if you'll allow me, I'd like to start with this and talk about it the longest, and if I have time left, I'd like to give you a few thoughts about the rest. For some time now, it has been apparent that the government politicians have been trying to get the electorate to get used to it, so that we don't believe what the government says by chance. In the field of education, the government is particularly effective in communicating, as they say gently, but I would call it misleading and lying. Because those in education often experience doing exactly the opposite of what they say. First of all, let us state that the reconstruction marked by the name of the Hoffmann Rose has failed. This cannot be refined very much, although it should be added that this was probably the decision of the Orbán-Parragh axis, but it was a secretary of state in the position to whom it was ultimately linked. There is no discussion between us, even with Rózsa Hoffmann, that, of course, there were significant problems in public education prior to the introduction of the reform. It was obvious that there was a need to change curricula, a fundamental change of approach due to the worsening knowledge of the students - I myself experienced this as a university instructor - and fine-tuning was required for textbook care, the prestige of the teaching field was in deep flight, the maintenance and operation of small-town schools was indeed very problematic, as Rózsa Hoffmann pointed out, and the eradication of segregation was not progressing much, and the problems were still to be mentioned. So the mistake was not to misapply the scope of the problems, but to give the wrong answer about how it should be resolved. When this reform was launched, the experts made it clear that the way out is not centralization, not nationalization, not the almost fully bound curriculum, not overstepping bureaucracy, not that teachers are automatically ped. It is being pushed back to I, not to create meaningless portfolios, not to increase the time spent in school, not to introduce public textbooks, not to increase the workload of teachers, not to put church education in a position, not to make foundations and private schools impossible, not to reduce public knowledge in vocational training. In this regard, the profession agreed, but these are the very things that have been achieved. That's why this system failed. [[12.30]] On the one hand, it was clear that centralisation of maintenance and operation would cause a great deal of problems. To me, a rector told me that he had been teaching at the university as a lawyer in the 1980s why the ultimate centralised administration didn't work. That's why you don't understand why KLIK was created in this way and in this form. Of course, in itself, and here again I would like to refer to what Rózsa Hoffmann said, it is absolutely true that in the case of small settlements, it was a great relief, that the state took over the schools and maintained them as operators, and managed them, operated and maintained them. Therefore, we have never said that all schools should automatically be returned to municipalities and former maintainers. We said that it was necessary to give a municipality the opportunity to get it back if they wanted it. The small settlement schools have benefited from this, but in larger, medium and larger settlements, centralization was very poor. We also kept saying that there will not be a centre that employs more than 100,000 people, especially not in Hungary, where the administration does not have the culture it should be. It was foreseen that they would be delayed by signing contracts, wages, travel expenses and all other labour procedures. That worked, they kept complaining and complaining about how this system still doesn't work. It could also be foreseen that about 2,500 institutions and about twice as many jobs can not be managed from one centre. You knew there'd be a problem with paying bills, purchasing assets, everything. And unlike what Rózsa Hoffmann says, there were such problems in the institutions operated by KLIK, and not in institutions maintained by the municipalities. To give an example, in the case of Gyöngyöstarján, it was an institution operated by KLIK. You have to go there and look around: the main problem was not that the power was turned off, that was the last step. We need to check the building to see what condition he's in. It's just because they let it rot. And the KLIK was responsible for that. These criticisms, which I have said here, should not be seen as unsubstantiated criticism of opposition parties and therefore not as unsubstantiated criticism of the Joint. On the one hand, professional organisations in Hungary say the same thing, in the same register, in the same style. On the other hand, the problems that this reform has caused or has not solved are clearly apparent from the OECD report. It is definitely not related to the Hungarian opposition parties or to György Soros; in case anyone remembers to bring up the name of Uncle Soros in today's debate. On the other hand, it should be stated that dissatisfaction in public education has become quite common; parents, teachers, students have unitedly protested. The sign was that protest petitions, letters were born, a strike was organized. As much as they tried to cover it up with communication, they had an impact on the government's activities, as they were forced to at least withdraw at the level of communication. After all, the requests or demands that were made during these protests have already shown a set of problems that could not be ignored. The problem is that this solution system, which has been developed, does not respond substantially to almost any of the problems. Let's look at the details. On the one hand, the operation is now being taken away from 500 municipalities and introduced into the central or state system of operation. A lot of people say that it's gonna be a total nationalization. In fact, I think it is a question of detail as to what we call it, the main problem is that the main claim has not been implemented so that the municipality that requests it can get back the reservation in addition to the operation. So they're doing exactly the opposite of what's written in the claims. This was also raised not only by the teaching profession, but also by the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, and hundreds of local governments are represented there. On the other hand, I would like to ask, because it is not quite clear what the costs will be. If I interpret the bill correctly, then the operation will be taken over by the state maintainer, and from then on, the operation costs will be borne by him. They will not make any additions to this from the municipalities, but will implement the operation from the amount in the budget line under the name of KLIK. At least I hope that I understand it correctly, and that they will not withdraw money from the municipalities that are still operating, but are no longer operating in the future. My specific question about this would be how many forints will be in particular, which will be included in the KLIK budget or no longer in the CLIK budget. Then, speaking of KLIK, it was said here that hurrah, oh, good, a whole new system is being created. Honestly, I'm less optimistic. Even if not legally, what I see in this is that there is a kind of organizational grating, a transformation. There will be 56 CLIKs, there will be a coordinating organization above it. I don't see that as a meaningful transformation. But the most interesting question is why there are 56 such district centers, why not 57, why not 55. What was the methodology? I've asked the Minister before to see if we could look at a map or get a settlement-line database on where the settlements were located. I'm telling you, I'm interested in the specific methodology. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to say something about this, or, if there is a possibility, I would ask for this in electronic form. Because the leaders of many settlements have contacted me over the last few weeks and asked me questions about things that they feel about when they're being decapitated, which I couldn't answer specifically, because no one knows anything about it, at least outside of the minister. [[Happy István: Uncle Soros Gyuri does not live in Hungary.]] Let's not mention Uncle Soros Gyuri so much, my happy fellow Member. Maybe you should just calm down a little bit. [[László Kucsák: You brought it up.]] Mr. Speaker, can we please just hold this back a little bit? On the other hand, the substantive transformation of the basic curriculum and the framework curriculum, I think, is not expected, but a quick grating is carried out here at the most. It begins, doesn't it, that if you want to change them substantially, you should give them a much longer period of time? It's also a communication trick, I think. Rather, we should go in the direction which, by the way, within the framework of OFI, was already being pushed. It should be considered whether there should be longer primary education, how to transform lower secondary education, partly its purpose, its method, its technique, and, accordingly, teacher training. The fact that they're a little bit in the system here and there doesn't change anything. Here, this should be specifically redesigned in a systematic manner. Clearly, the textbook situation is not going to get any better. There's nothing else to do here, I think it's a matter of abolishing the state textbooks. Because it is not a communist scheme for my fellow Member to be pleased, it is not Uncle Soros's invention that these textbooks are not good. Talk to educators, they clearly say that unteachable, misguided textbooks with mistakes have been sold, which, by the way, are being forced to do so illegally, partly by administrative means, while other textbooks are clearly being squeezed out. And the school leave begins with who teaches from what. It would be a shame to deny that. And all the other problems are not fully answered by the current bill either. Nor does the State Secretariat seem to be susceptible to this, reducing the clock load, raising the mandatory age limit again, or responding to the lack of the basic conditions of daily physical education. I miss these. So they're actually trying to handle the situation in a communication way, and nothing's gonna change. [[12.40]] Moreover, there is still a question of amending the VET Act, and I would not go into the details because the main problem is also there, which is not included in this amendment, because it is not even a legal issue, and it is specifically about cutting back natural sciences in vocational schools and under their maiden names in vocational schools. Here Rózsa Hoffmann said that the world needs children, young adults, who can find their way around the world. Without geographical knowledge, it's gonna be a little difficult. I'm just gonna signal it. But in the same way, I'd say other science objects. It would be a perfectly acceptable substantive debate, which could be started on a professional basis, about the need for disciplinary or integrated objects, how this should be resolved, but the whole point should be that at the end, when adding the weekly number of science subjects, it should remain at least at a level and not be reduced. Because if we reduce it, it's just gonna be bad, it doesn't matter what else I put behind it, or it doesn't matter what else from a communication point of view. On the other hand, there is also a grating of higher education. I can repeat what I always say, and by the way, the university community broadly agrees that the chancellor and consistorium system that executes university autonomy should be abolished and not rescinded. I understand what the MAB and the ODT are doing in connection with the regulation of the Hungarian Doctoral Council to be an independent legal personality, although, let's say, obviously, if we look at this regulation, it gives us a lot of ministerial authority, so, overall, I can only say that we will not support this bill for the reasons that I have partially explained. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-25-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches, and I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-25-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make some comments on what has been said. With regard to Dóra Dúró's comment, I would like to note that earlier, in my memory here in Parliament, Jobbik also said that it is not right for the financial opportunity of the municipalities to determine the quality of education. Now we've heard something completely different than that. He basically said the same thing as Ágnes Kunhalmi, István Ikotity or Szabolcs Szabó. In particular, whatever government wants it to maintain an educational system. Basically, the MSZP, Jobbik, LMP and all other parties are selling on the left. I cannot classify Agnes Kunhalmi's comment as anything but a political pamphlet. Technically, he wants to distract himself from his own bad governance or put the veil of oblivion over it. You're saying that the state leg of the mixed system has failed. The numbers do not lie, there are about 3,000 municipalities with educational institutions, 450 out of the 3,000 municipalities where school operations took place. So the greater part of it is simply what has been before, that the state was also the operator, and these schools worked. If you think it's a failure, then I don't know what kind of concept it really is that we can even agree on the meaning of words. You're suggesting who screwed up. Well, I'd just like to bring up some data: under your administration, nearly 400 schools have been shut down. [[Dr. István Hiller: It's not true!]] In recent years, we've renovated nearly 500. [[Dr. István Hiller: From what? Come on, Laci.]] We've developed it. During your period, nearly 10,000 teachers have been put out on the street, since there has been a state reserve, only one teacher has not been dismissed. They took a month's wages from educators, took money from education, and they're reimbursing it both in wages and in the education system. You complained or said that the municipalities were good at things. Do you know what they complained about at Teleki Blanka High School? I'm thinking there's no paint on the wall behind the interactive board. Whose job was that? The municipality of Zugló on which it claims or which it is claimed that it worked well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech was put forward by Mrs Dóra Dúró, the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-05-25-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to clarify my speech and draw attention to the fact that I have never said that the municipality that wants it should take back its school. I don't think it's enough to guarantee that education works well at that school, and the municipality will just declare that it wants to maintain it, and then we'll give it back. Guarantees and a system of criteria must be set up to ensure that schools that operate better are returned to municipal reservations. It is not because the municipality wants to do so that a school works better in municipal reserve. A system of criteria should be developed on a professional basis, which would be the task of the Ministry, as I believe. And for the history of the Teleki Blanka High School: the Municipality of Zugló was not a very good owner of this high school in the previous cycle, I visited there in 2014 after the election at the end of the school year, the school almost collapsed, the corridor was flooded at several points, the attic was in catastrophic condition, there was a section in the school yard that had to be surrounded, and the children could not go there, so the Zugló municipality was not a very good owner of this high school during the Fidesz leadership. Thank you.
u2016-05-25-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr László Kucsák, Fidesz Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative, one comes to a debate like this, in order to see if the various approaches to the profession and the profession, suggestions, proposals will affect the meeting room, and it is always necessary to experience that, for the most part, no, but rather, as my fellow Member Pósán has said, political pamphlet will be heard, and we must follow them through. This was an exception, but I consider Dóra Dúró's contribution to be a basically professional approach. I consider the others, for my part, basically a political speech, of course it has a place in Parliament. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Thank you!]] There's nothing wrong with that, but if you've already said that, let me refer to some very briefly or reflect. For my part, I would continue to ask that I suggest that the wordings that Szabolcs Szabó has recently used, for example, to rot from institutions or buildings, be avoided. If you have such an experience, don't give it to me, and you'll make that very clear. That doesn't reflect well on the whole case, the profession, and all the things I think we're supposed to talk about. As indeed, if we have already heard political approaches and, for example, from the speaker of the MSZP, then we really need to raise the fact that something, some process, has led to the fact that in 2010 the current government found itself facing the situation and not only how it found itself in the face of this situation, but also resolved and dealt with the fact that it took over 1300 billion debt from the municipalities in the order of magnitude. Obviously, this was a process that led to this whole case - the result here now in a negative sense - as a result of the process. It would be nice to hear some self-critical sentences about that, by the way. There will be another opportunity to do so, since there will be speakers from what led then, from what background, from what reasons, from what considerations that there has been indeed a very serious accumulation of debt. Practically, I can say that the capital is XVIII. in its district, Pestszentlőrincen and Pestszentimre, this was over 11 billion. I do not say, of course, that this was made up solely of the maintenance and operation of the educational institutions as defined at that time, and of the amounts spent on them alone, but it is clear that the municipalities have, in your time, stretched out particularly longer than the blanket which was provided to them under the state budget. This is therefore an important circumstance, and I would suggest that such political approaches should start with self-examination. Just as I will strive to see that, obviously, what we have here is a bill, an amending proposal, there should be self-critical elements in this, and that I would focus on basically professional issues. At the same time, I recall what areas the Minister of State mentioned in the expoze were just because my fellow Members were unable to be present in this significant part of the MSZP, arrived around 8-10 minutes, and there was no one on the part of the LMP in the Chamber. [[Dóra Dúró points to the notary seat: Sitting up there!]] So it was said in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé that there was a common goal... - forgive me, I apologize, I did not see it, so Mr. Ikotity was here, he was only in the notary seat, and the former part of the statement remains. [[12.50]] So Mr Secretary of State has made it clear and I can only confirm that we believe that the common goal is to make the system, including the education system, better. Each measure must serve this purpose. It has also been said that on 9 February a round table for public education was established, on which various proposals were made after several meetings, and these proposals have since been made in many laws. These were the immediate measures - a reduction in administration and so on - and now, in the second phase, we have before us the issues that, based on the schedule of the Round Table for Public Education, have been grouped into priority groups number one, namely that they include the steps and measures to be taken from 1 September 2016. In the context of the issue of the maintenance of public institutions, all that would now be referred to in the area of district centres is that, in a foreign word, the principle of subsidiarity should work, so that the decision-making levels are brought closer to the competences of the institutions, the institutions, including the heads of the institutions, the powers of the institutions should be broadened. It is also mentioned that, as an intermediate organisation, an educational centre between the Ministry and the district centers will be established according to the bill. It is also mentioned that the issue of maintenance operation - which I will certainly mention in the course of further discussion - is extended to include the pedagogist-promotion system, the financial recognition of quality work, which should be based on a system of evaluation, Mr State Secretary, and this is part of this package of proposals, on the one hand, to amend the law on national higher education, which also contains very important elements, so that I mention, for example, in order to develop a uniform system of rules for farming, to implement it, or to which our fellow Member has already referred, this is the issue of the increased introduction of a national higher education scholarship or the replacement of a previous scholarship in the Republic. Thus, a wide variety of issues have been raised. Allow me to explain in more detail in all these contexts, such as the proposal to replace the State institution-keeping centre as a state maintainer by the teaching centres acting as independent budgetary bodies, which continue to function as units of organisation of individual state-owned public education institutions as legal entities with OM identification and framework management. This has already been mentioned, and opposition speeches have also touched on the question of why this is so much. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State can explain in a professional way why 56 was raised by Szabolcs Szabó and the speaker of the MSZP during the round table on public education, on the one hand, on the basis of the background analyses carried out. Well, then I'd like to ask you back, but that's not the genre. If it's 61, are you satisfied? If you're 54, are you satisfied? [[Szabolcs Szabó: I would have asked you anyway. Agnes Kunhalmi: I'd still like to ask.]] It is not because I think that this is precisely 56, but that we can agree that the current system of institutions will have a separate budget, so that a single institution-supporting centre as a budgetary body instead of a legal person, if there are significantly more units - as has already been said in the various prospectuses, which you obviously have been monitoring - will have a separate budget, the size of which is known to be nearly 10 billion, so that they will be budget bodies with an amount corresponding to the budget of a higher education institution, with budgets broken down into institutions within these budgetary bodies. It's a good effort, or at least I don't think any of you have denied it. Just as I think it is a good effort to bring decision-making competences closer to the institutions, the institutional leaders, the institutional communities, which have a really good place in the institutions, and it is important that the institutions are able to operate with a kind of framework management, because we know very well that there have been problems in this area in the past, and these problems need to be addressed. It is also included in the bill that this particular, perhaps most of us are opposed to the fact that, according to the bill, maintenance and operating tasks are merged with the state maintainer, so a unified maintenance management will be established again in this area, in which the responsibilities and responsibilities of each organisation would be very clear. Here it is very important to emphasise that there are, indeed, various positions in this regard. As regards the current educational institutions and public education institutions, it has already been said that the institutional circle where the management tasks and roles have been performed by the municipalities is a great deal. There has also been a reference from pro-government speakers to the fact that there are also different experiences in this regard. I can report for myself that in the part of the settlement where I live, the municipality, as an operator, has tried to fulfil this task in a maximum degree, and it is therefore extremely important that this operation under the state umbrella can continue in the most flexible form possible. What do I mean by that? What I mean by this is that all the good experiences that have been present over the past period in terms of state reservations and local government management, these good experiences, good practices, should be moved forward and continued in the following areas. The role of state reservation, the role of state maintenance and operation, state control, the role and role of the state as a customer is, in my view, not impaired, and I feel that there is openness and flexibility on the part of the government. So I would suggest not to bury it early, to measure it twice rather than to cut it once, to wait for the time, here is the turning day as proposed on 1 January 2017. It is in the common interest of all of us and our intention is to find the best possible solution in this subject of maintenance. If I can refer back to what you just said in a two-minute response by Dóra Dúró, as a reaction to the suggestion of László Pósán, you said that in the capital city, according to your experience, the municipality, which you mentioned, did not or does not necessarily correspond to this role. If that is so, and if I accept this, what you have written and compare with everything I have said about my own settlement, the capital is XVIII. from the perimeter, you can see that this is two types of experience. The important thing is, therefore, that good practices can be carried forward, kept alive and, accordingly, set up and carry out a functioning system as well as working as possible as from 1 January 2017, which is, of course, a condition of course, a very important, decisive condition for having an adequate source, and there have been wordings here that will put this conversation aside. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate of the Finance Act took place not long ago here in Parliament, the 2017 Finance Act, and I quote this because several of the people present were still here, but everyone and not fully. I have, by the way, described the additional resources available in the education sector, including in the field of public education, and not only the sum, but also the additional costs, plus resources and additional funding for which the surplus is shown. If this has been monitored, then it is clear from this that that part of the amount, that expansion, was not about operating tasks under the state umbrella, must be a separate source, and it is very important that this source is available in an appropriate order of magnitude. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] And so you can carry it calmly, in a balanced manner... my fellow Member, press the button. This is how the source will be available for us to actually meet these tasks. In closing, I would like to suggest with due respect to everyone that it is good to start from the proposal in particular, and that if we make professional proposals or proposals that seem professional, we also try to be careful about them, how should I put it? [[13.00]] You can talk about the iPad generation that appeared at school, but let's not forget that the basic function of primary schools is that primary schools teach you, teach you how to write, read, count, and so on, so you're not-or questions like you can't or-or question us about creating creative schools. What do we mean by creative school? If what we mean by creative school is the same thing, then what I can tell you is that alternative and general public education and public education are not the same. So you can talk about these issues, just clarify what kind of concept, what expression you mean. In conclusion, let me recall, because it was also mentioned what textbooks, what publications are present in the state textbook system. When I was in high school, our excellent history teacher, Mr. Újvári, was also available at the end of his fantastically held classes, which could be regarded as an excellent performance, a bright, witty lecture every time, usually finished his classes with a little bit of the bell: yeah, and if you think, read the text on pages 50 to 54 of the textbook. So: the issue of education is not only and not only a question of textbooks. Of course, it is important to be good [[The president's ringing the bell.]] materials at our disposal, but to say that this is the only and decisive one on this issue, especially in the world of the Internet, I do not think it will hold up. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider everything I have said and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, has applied for a speech. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2016-05-25-59	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! First of all, I would like to thank the President for allowing me to speak and, after my speech, I will take over the President's pulpit. Thank you so much for your favour. Dear Parliament, I suggest we turn a little bit of the debate around. Obviously, we all have political convictions, and since this political conviction is different, it is in order to explain this in a democracy, and because of the diversity of political beliefs we are in different parties, different parties and representatives are elected by voters, and as a result we are sitting here, so the political disagreement is natural. If we are talking about an issue that is obviously going through political electoral cycles, namely the education of children, students and the quality of our schooling, then let us try to argue with each other on a professional basis in the debate on the amendment of the professional law, I think this is the right direction. So my first point, if you like it, is to see if experience is already available in roughly half a decade, which can be expressed on the basis of experience. In the autumn and the winter of 2011, the National Public Education Act was adopted, together with the previous debates roughly four and a half years ago - is almost half a decade capable of drawing experience in education and public education? I think, yes, this is beyond the time circle that we can say no to, it will have to wait a little longer, and then the system will set up, because it is not like on the stock market to bet in the morning, and then in the afternoon they know whether they win or lose. In the case of education, there really must be a run-through from the creation of the law through its introduction to the experience of practical academic years. However, after half a decade, it is not right for a politician, a politician of education, to say that there is no such experience yet, so I am sure that this amendment is also an expression of experience. If this is accepted from me, then we must say that the result of this experience so far is that the system that has been created has not worked well in your view, so this change is not necessary because it worked well, you want to change because you believe it didn't work well. If it were okay, if there really was a need for fine-tuning, it wouldn't have to be done by law change. This is a change of direction, and the reason for the change of direction is the experience we have just given, and it happens now - for the sake of simplicity - that the CLIK system, which was set up, was a number of problems that were no longer manageable within the system, but a systemic change was required. Therefore, I do not accept that the current amendment is simply a fine-tuning exercise, I think it is more than that; I agree with that, and I think it is right. We need to talk about directions. Is there any other experience? Yes, I think we can also talk about a different kind of experience, about the fact that if such a powerful hierarchy was established in the Hungarian administration, in the Hungarian administration, then the hierarchy is used by those at the bottom and middle of the hierarchy, so that, if possible, all the responsibilities that would have been gladly assumed, but the law created did not allow this to happen, and they push it up. The system that led to KLIK's activities, from the school district to the school district, through an unthinkable and poorly managed institution, was due, among other things, to the fact that, since no competence was left in place, we should think of the removal of the virtually complete or later fullness of the principal's powers - a memorable debate was held by the board of directors and politicians, among other things, when discussing the powers of the director, while sitting there, not personally, but with regard to the institution itself. The second experience, therefore, is that if such a hierarchy is established, the institution at the top of the hierarchy is under such immense pressure that it is almost impossible to provide it with quality standards. I do not believe that this has been known before, and I even claim that it is not a coincidence that since there has been an independent Hungarian administration since Eötvös in the most diverse ways, there has not been such a highly centralised system of institutions, because governments of all colours have seen that there is a need to leave something on the ground, that if not left behind, then partly the interest is withdrawn, and partly because of the hierarchy that has just come up, the central organization is unable to work in quality. This is the realization I see in this amendment of the law, so I have to come here as a result of experience, what the amendment says, and how we are going to do it. In the Hungarian administration, the district, which is roughly equivalent to the district of teaching in the administration, has a tradition - I would build on this tradition much more strongly - but at the intermediate element, as we have no experience with what is being born here, it is worth noting the reservation that this has not been done before, this is new; the new one is not necessarily good, although I cannot say that it is rejected in the first place. The structure, the organization that is actually formed here - we will obviously get an explanation of why this is exactly so much, but I am not dealing with it right now - this is the administrative centre and organization that stands up here, not in the Hungarian administration and administration; I see a number of errors in it, but we have no experience of this. [[13.10]] It is another question of what local resistance is like with the new one, the one that has not yet been experienced, and how an intermediate institution can really use its powers. However, I must mention here that if a concentration is to be achieved, I find the activities of the top body, now named Klebelsberg Centre, which is very difficult to describe in its operation, to be of particular concern. That's a contradiction. It's like they're pulling in one direction, but they don't want to get off on something you know from experience that's not good, which is why they're doing the whole amendment of the law, and there's a pull force in the opposite direction, a vector. I would like to point out very strongly that the intention of the school district centers, these 56 units, and such a function of the Klebelsberg Center - because they will not be able to deflect that certain functions will be taken over from the dead KLIK - is contrary. I see problems in the decision-making mechanism. I think that we need to talk about this later, and yet I must draw attention to the fact that there is no obligation either of the principal teachers, who have the greatest good intentions, to draw the consequences from the legislation, from the law immediately. This is what happened in the case of the KLIK, while here at the plenary session and at Commission level, and not even the opposition and the ruling party, not simply as a difference of opinion between the representatives of Fidesz and the MSZP, but as a result of a thought-breaking debate. Therefore, I would ask you to consider that in this mechanism to be set up, this is the opposite, the creation of intermediate institutions and the re-establishing and leaving the Klebelsberg Center, I think it will cause a very serious disturbance. It's gonna create orientation disorders, and the institutions won't know exactly where to really orientate and go. After all, life has led to this amendment running in parallel with the 2017 budget bill. The budget bill provides funding for a structure, one way or another - the debate that was held there - which is still the KLIK system. This new system to be set up, which we are still having a plenary debate on, is not financed in the Budget Act, and I do not see this ensured, and not only at the level of the items. I must say to you that what several Members have already spoken about, i.e. that the state happens to take over operating tasks from roughly 500 municipalities, because my opinion on this is in line with the opinion of my fellow Members from the opposition, so I would not waste much time; but I would like to say that this transformation costs extra costs. It will not work to convert the financing of the KLIK system, if the KLIK ceases to exist one way or another, to create these centres. What's on the plus side, you know exactly, it's not really plus, it's a reduction in the negatives that we've had so far. As a result of a long struggle, they can bring everything they have done for a year from the period before KLIK was set up, from a very negative to maybe zero. This is a surplus compared to last year, and since the establishment of the CLIK, it is the resolution of the budget deficit you have created here, in this form. But that's not a positive. I don't think it's a surplus. To set up a new system, we need a surplus. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] We were talking about not being able to estimate how much money was invested in the operation of the municipalities. It's hard work, but it can be done. This, which the Hungarian authorities have put into operation in your system, is 60 billion forints from above. It's a lot of money, but it doesn't show up anywhere. I have to tell you that, with the commitment that you are doing, you will take over the tasks of operation and put it to the state, taking away from the municipalities, the 60 billion forints that the municipalities have still put into Hungarian public education, you will not guarantee at the level of the budget. The additional costs of operating tasks are not reflected. Therefore, I see serious financing problems, and I am almost certain that they should create a harmony between the transformation of the public education structure and funding, because in the next academic year, in the academic year 2016/17, they will be presented to you as an elemental problem. Finally, I repeat my conviction that, on several occasions, we have expressed that the system that has been created, the excessive nationalisation, this is not a professional issue for you, this is a political decision. You are trying very badly to represent the consequences of this political decision, but if you accept it from me, you can see that you do not really believe in it professionally. They accept that this is a political decision, but they know with skill that professionally it is not the right solution. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-25-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech in this round, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-25-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to comment on the section of the bill on vocational training, but allow me to make some general comments, because I agree with my fellow Members that we have heard many contributions that fall under the category of political pamphlet. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But now, when István Hiller said that we are arguing here in this House on a professional basis - but also on a political basis, as we are also politicians - it occurred to me that between changing direction and fine-tuning there is another intermediate situation where, based on experience, we are improving the system. In addition to fine-tuning, I am thinking of operation. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is very useful after disaster!]] In addition to the operation of the education system, there are also professional, content, methodological issues, content development issues, in which we are open to dialogue. I think I can say this on behalf of the pro-government representatives. Another issue is that they may not listen to what we say, or that organisations, whether civil society organisations, professional organisations or trade unions, will not come to the meeting of the round table of public education, with which we can conduct this dialogue, because we are still in common education. So I consider that the fundamental difference is between a change of direction and a fine tuning, or, as my fellow Members said earlier, the whisking, grating, I don't know... [[Szabolcs Szabó: Grating!]] Yeah, grating. I think we are talking about a strategy, because education is a strategic issue, and over the past four and a half, five years, let's say, from 2011, we have created strategies not only in law, but also in the higher education strategy, which has also been accepted by the profession, the workers, teachers and the rectors, they have accepted what the current higher education should be like. [[13.20]] But let me ask you a basic question: how is a good school? What good education is in XXI. In the second decade of the century? I think that's the main question, and that's what we need to discuss. This bill, this amendment, goes in the direction of my humble opinion that this concept of knowledge, which is part of the 21st century, is a concept of knowledge. It appears in the century, or gives the science of learning to the children, so that the school can be a chancer, so that the school can be a scene for talent, within a classroom and outside of a classroom. In my opinion, we need a unified governance, a unified operation so that there are no differences in education as before 2010. Now let me give you an example of, say, a XII. The difference between district school and a small school in Szabolcs appeared in operation, source, specialized teacher, technical and methodological issues. I come from a region in North-East Hungary, from the west of the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, from the west of Nyíregyháza, where school, more specifically knowledge, is the breaking point for the student to be a successful adult to acquire the competences or the necessary knowledge, because it is the most important factor of social mobility; it is not wealth, because here it is basically middle-class, middle-class or modest We're talking about the children of families with incomes. And that's why I think that for a good school, In the second decade of the century, skills and skills need to be developed, chances must be created, quality must be given, uniform quality must be given, and talent must be nurtured. He was still a teller in most of the comments, this is the last response I have to make, that they only revolve around the operation, because something can be criticized, that it does not work well, that the form of organisation is not good, that it accumulates debt. The reason for this may be that, in fact, KLIK, let us say it, or the state institutionkeeper, when we decided to take it from the local authorities, had to go on an untraveled road which, after experience - I agree with István Hiller on this - needs to be clarified and improved on this system. This bill brings this to us. So I agree with the system, but this needs to be improved and clarified. And perhaps I should say that the debate on the budget law is not yet over, and you are saying all kinds of numbers about the serious lack of operation. That 55 billion forint we hope will be there. The government - I don't know, maybe there is a government meeting today - will decide, and we hope that this HUF 55 billion will be available. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to talk about vocational training in a few minutes, because it was just a year ago that the 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training. The general debate on the amendment to the Act, which is being amended in the light of the experience gained during the renewal of the national public education and vocational training system, and I say again. It is my view that this amendment has become necessary in the light of the progress that has been taken forward and the experience with the application of the law. I dare say that this is not a change of direction, but a fine-tuning, correction. In addition, text-focusing interpretation and application are included in the bill, which facilitates implementation. Let us look at the purpose of vocational training in just two sentences. The aim is to ensure that training is a practice-oriented training tool that provides useful knowledge for those involved in training, and that they can thrive on the labour market, thus achieving, in addition to their personal success, an important objective for the economy and society, i.e. that skilled labour is available, employment is improved and economic growth remains dynamic. Ladies and gentlemen, I just read an article today. Let me give you this little example of how much a mason earns abroad. That is exactly what I have heard, because Hungarian construction professionals, even skilled workers, are able to make a significant amount of money if they go abroad. And with regard to the shortage professions - in the construction sector the tinsmith, the carpenter, the mason, the enveloper, they are considered to be a shortage profession - this bill gives us the opportunity to try to reduce the deficit professions in the renewal of vocational training; if this does not work immediately, but let us start on this path. Allow me to make some specific amendments that the Secretary of State has already mentioned in his expozee. It redefines the concept of professional maturity. He said that students can not only graduate at a raised level, but also at the mid-level from 2017 onwards, but also at the mid-level. At present, this type of graduation exam is only considered to be an increased level under the VET Act. So this shows that this amendment comes from real life. Another important change is the change in the competences assigned to vocational training centres and school leaders. This may also be a good practice for the KLIK as to the autonomy, the decision-making powers of an institution manager; for example, the principles of the preparation of the budget of the vocational training centre are set out in the proposal. This could also be a good practice for education as a whole. Then the Secretary of State also mentioned that practical and professional training is strengthened, that if the organizer of practical training is not able to perform all the tasks, then it is possible to sign with a school workshop to enable them to do so. Thus, the aid granted to the practical training site will be reduced proportionately. It is possible to change framework plans, to display local educational content, up to 5 percent. This also shows that the framework curriculum is flexible or can be filled with content according to local educational conditions. The proposal provides for the free of charge for the examination of training not qualifying as a third qualification. It's a chance-making regulation. I would remind you that the first and second professions are free of charge and can be obtained by the age of 25. Very positive and innovative in 7. The measure provided for in Section 2 of this Article: a step to improve equal opportunities will allow the acquisition of second vocational training in daytime training only in the case of pupils with a cumulative disadvantage and in the case of students with sni. This is a very important point in my opinion. Several paragraphs regulate the practical exam, the student contracts, the better registration of dual training. I would just like to point out one thing: the proposal sets out when a student will receive a cash benefit: only in the form of an apprenticeship or in the field of practical training under a cooperation agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to talk about the framework numbers for vocational training, as I mentioned that the reduction of skills gaps is our main task. For this further consideration, we recommend the setting of framework numbers for graduates in vocational secondary schools - today a vocational school - given that the intention to graduate is an important means of promoting social mobility. So anyone who wants to do this should be encouraged. We have to add that these students are taking on more difficult conditions than before, because while before 2010, the graduation school determined how many years to study until graduation, this is now laid down in the bill for two years. And then there's one more thing I'd like to talk to you about. The institutional network of vocational education and training is also being transformed, and in this context the skill-building vocational school will be terminated; it will be replaced by the institution of skills-building education in schools. This school deals with students who are not able to acquire a profession, but only to acquire simple work processes. [[13.30]] We're talking about moderate mental retards. I would like to emphasise that we have also taken a step forward with this, because it is essential that these people integrate into society, reduce early school leaving, and actually give students primary education or part-training. Dear House, As a summation, I would like to say that as regards vocational education and training, all the changes are designed to renew the system, content and functioning of vocational training, to meet the expectations that students should enter the labour market with real skills, useful and modern knowledge, and that if they are individually successful in their lives, it is also good for a community, for the Hungarian society, for the Hungarian economy. I support the proposed amendments, and I would like to ask my fellow Members - because it is a sensible debate - that if we are talking about professional, content and methodological issues, we are talking about the renewal of operation, they should make their proposals about them, and they should not meet a political requirement with all kinds of numbers, that everything has been wrong, that all the buildings fall down, that we are now just whittling and grating. No, we want education, one of the finest educations in Central Europe or Europe that can help - [[To Agnes Kunhalmi:]] yes , you can smile on it [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's what I want.]] which can help - the generation after us to make Hungary successful, even more successful than it is now. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We agree on that.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-62	Thank you very much. We'll get back to work. Speakers asking for a normal word are next. Congressman István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, representative of the LMP.
u2016-05-25-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to refer to a section of the bill, a section concerning special pedagogical development services, to be precise. The amendment provides that so-called pedagogical counselling, early development, education and care, as well as development training as a licence will merge and merge. According to the reasons for the proposal, I quote, their maintenance on specific tasks is not technically justified. The two tasks differ only in the age of the target group, the problem of methods and the target group is the same. That's the end of the quote. Yet we say that it may not be right to combine these tasks. We would like to refer here to the fact that development activities may not only target a different target group at age, but also to the development of children who have already been diagnosed by an expert committee as having special needs for education, and their development is about preparing for special education and education. The condition of children involved in early development is not yet diagnosed, there is no expert opinion, so not only sni, but it meets the special needs of all children and solves their development. Moreover, there will still be no solution to the provision of specialist services and the extension of status. How, then, does legislation help to meet specific needs in an appropriate number and quality? Another change, which I would like to mention, is that they want to involve the practical training of students who are excluded from vocational training, but still in a low-diagnostic category of mental disabilities, in specialist schools for the development of skills. The bill puts it this way in relation to the new type of skills development school, and I quote: "The skills development school provides medium-term mentally disabled students with the skills needed to prepare for the start of life, to learn easy-to-work work processes that enable them to get into work, and to provide students with a low level of mental disabilities who cannot take part in vocational training with the knowledge they need to get to work and start life. Here's the end of the quote. Based on expert feedback, our concern here is that we do not see who and according to what professional protocol, according to what criteria will decide what special school for children with mild mental disabilities, thus hindered by learning, should go to. Can the development of moderate and slightly mentally disabled people be combined in this way? We're talking about students with completely different abilities, young people. These categories cannot be washed together, we do not see the guarantees that neither group is at a disadvantage. The reasons for the bill describe that changes are made on the basis of feedback from expert working groups. As we have heard, there was no consistency in these working groups. The opinions of experts are very different. We therefore believe that these amendments should have been further discussed and developed. In this form, we cannot support these because of uncertainties. [[In the notary seat, László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] Dear Secretary of State, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a problem that we have already asked Minister Zoltán Balog a written question about, but we have not received a reassuring answer. So far, he's been talking about changes to specialized schools, but where is the maintenance change in these schools? Soon, as of July 1st, these schools will be reserved for NGM. However, the details of the maintenance change have not yet been informed to these schools, they do not know anything yet. The change is not prepared. What's waiting for them in the next month and a half? They don't know how they're gonna work anymore. When we asked about this in January, we received the answer, and I quote: "Preparing the transfer-over from KLIK has not yet required any preliminary tasks. The Receiving National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, as a new maintainer, has launched preliminary surveys on relocation. The thing is, these institutions don't really know about this. Dear Secretary of State, What further steps are being taken? Where is the transfer-acceptance process, where is the preparation of the transfer of 54 specialized schools indicated in the Annexes to the relevant regulation, one and a half months before the end of the academic year? We hope that the Secretary of State will answer these questions here in the debate or at the end of the debate. I would like to respond to a few things, Mr Vinnai Győző, that I think that we can make quite a lot of professional arguments, but please leave the opportunity for political debate to take place - we are in Parliament - and the parties can also express their political message of this kind, if that is the case. On this point, I think this is particularly useful if this can happen. I would like to point out to Mr László Kucsák that when he spoke about the fact that the municipalities had overshadowed the blanket and that they should have had to examine themselves, I would like to refer to the difference in approach that we believe in the May Other in Politics that local governments do have the right competence to decide how this works. Nevertheless, we do not want an extremely decentralised system, which was before 2010, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that these municipalities received a significant loss of resources, and that they often had to go into these debts in order to carry out their tasks, but I also consider that most often the debts of the municipalities were not due to operational tasks, but rather to improvements and their own contribution. And last but not least, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are indeed these municipalities... - after the summer of 2006, when these municipalities were elected after the famous Autumn speech. The majority of these municipalities were Fidesz-led municipalities. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right.]] which you said you'd have to conduct a self-examination. In connection with the textbooks, Mr.László Kucsák also spoke about the fact that he had a teacher who taught without a textbook, and then at the end he told them how he had given them homework to read this part if they were interested. He was able to highlight this teacher. I don't think all his teachers were like that, it's an opportunity, as they say very often. You can live with that, and that argument, obviously I don't think that's what László Kucsák meant, but he's a little more inclined to do that, and thinking a little further, it can be interpreted as having a textbook for us at the time, so that should be enough. [[13.40]] So living on greasy bread and eating it, kids, that's obviously a very, very bad argument. I don't think László Kucsák thought it so cornered, but I draw attention to that. And finally, I cannot leave the thought of my fellow Member, Mr Hoffmann, when he spoke of the fact that Christian Democrats will not be convinced that the municipal maintenance system must be restored; I understand that he said so. Dear Congresswoman, I would not, by any means - it may not have meant me - that is not what we would like in this form, but in addition to saying that Christian thinkers, Christian Democrats, do not let me go without a word, and let me make a mention that with this argument to argue for centralization - how should I put it - it is not acceptable, to put it mildly. One of the basic values of Christian democracy is subsidiarity, not centralization. Subsidiarity is very important for local authorities. I respectfully ask you to accept this, this cannot be bypassed, no matter how you think about it, this is a fundamental value that is accepted as a core value in the universe of Christian democracy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-25-64	Thank you very much. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-65	First of all, I must apologise to a large number of my fellow Members, who are interested in teaching, for having spoken, but I think that this is by far not a pedagogical matter that we are discussing, and we are not talking, by far, only about the issues of pedagogy, but about a social issue. It is my belief that in 2010, when the second Orbán government took office, there was a common understanding between parent society and the pedagogical society that changes were needed. It was an unsustainable situation and it became worse and worse that the diversity of municipalities, primarily their financial differences, but their personal composition, the educational opportunity that appeared there created such fundamental differences for Hungarian people at the moment of birth, which had to be changed. It is clear that the Hungarian settlement structure has undergone a change that shows that in 1960 around 600 small settlements under the 500 souls, which rose above 1000 in 2001. And the possibilities of these small settlements, but let me add, even the opportunities of medium-sized villages in the field of education can offer quite something else besides their most determined commitment to the teachers working there, than what is possible in a place where the gifts are different, more favourable. That's why the change was inevitable. But it was also necessary because, in conjunction with structural changes, the objective was obviously to have curricula that would give basic knowledge from the smallest settlement to the great settlements, the basic knowledge from which to proceed. This level of knowledge, I believe, is the constitutional right of all Hungarians, which must be guaranteed sooner or later. This effort is therefore not only legitimate but absolutely desirable. Here was the debate about what is happening at this moment with the introduction of the law: there is fine-tuning, there is a substantial change, there is a fundamental change. I don't think that's relevant. There is a change that time would have certainly brought, because I believe it is true that there is a probationary period within the pedagogy, but also within all other areas, which, after probation, only very bad governments refuse to change. When the needs for change appear and are indeed justified, the change is also necessary. I am convinced - and I do not want to deal with it any longer - that the institution, the KLIK, which is obviously being judged and spoken about here, was a well-meaning start on which to build next. Therefore, it is not an attack by Members at the time or, accordingly, I must say that they may also be involved in the creation of this, but a specific recognition that today, too, they recognise that if this needs to be changed. I think these are closely related thoughts. Dear House, Are there any foundations in this proposal that I have tried to sum up at the beginning, that is to say, to ensure the possibility of achieving knowledge within Hungarian society from small settlements to large settlements, for those born wherever they are born, who live here as Hungarian people, I am convinced that the basic possibilities are hidden in this. How much can this be done? I think it's another test. How this will be done when it appears in practice... - there may be a need for further fine-tuning, it cannot be blocked. And if that's the case, you have to be open to it. What is essential is that the goal should always remain the same, the goal should always be the same, the transfer of knowledge. Dear House, I would like to make the following clear. I believe that organisational issues are important issues, especially money, naturally, but even more so that a uniform nature can appear within education. Does this exist in society today? Not today. You have to try, but that's not the case today. Well, the proposal that lies before us now can take a very big step forward, I believe. Just because the kind of centralization, as it is now called, which is in fact, I must say that it means not centralising the management, but bringing it into place at a time when the control centres appear territorially instead of the KLIK, which has so far been operating from the centre, which allows local interests to appear here, the interests and influence of local governments will also appear. It is not, therefore, in the bill that it seeks to exclude the municipalities from these opportunities, on the contrary, it brings these opportunities closer to the municipalities. Dear House, What I'm basically asking for is something like ceterum censeo, so Carthage must be destroyed, because here I would say that Rome must be built. Because the fact is that there is a sentence here that is very important to me, which reads as follows:. By clarifying the previous provisions, it states the freeness of professional examinations in vocational education and training in the school system in the case of the study of professional qualifications that are not considered third. Well, that's why I basically asked for a word. Dear House, The thing is, there's a loose end in the vocational training. There's a loose end I don't get an answer to for a long, long time now. In particular, how the harmony of one law and the other law will be achieved here, if the earth traffic law requires that it be trained in agriculture or forestry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a condition for someone to be a farmer. What's that got to do with the table? Well, dear House, today such a professional qualification will be granted only to those who have secondary or tertiary education who can afford it. 'Cause today, that's the kind of vocational training that doesn't come with basic education. Today, this is not provided by any education that is available free of charge. Therefore, for me, every change in education, alpha-omega, must start from this point: this problem must be solved. This is not simply an educational issue, it is a fundamental constitutional issue. Because this is the only sentence in Hungary today that excludes 90-95 percent of the population from the possibility of being a farmer, unless it has 300-400 thousand forints to acquire this kind of professional qualification. [[13.50]] This phrase on professional qualifications will be true - and I expect a satisfactory answer - if this professional qualification is provided by education to every child born in the village who wants to be a farmer, who wants to be a farmer, this possibility should be open. For me, it's basically important. And not only because I am convinced that in Hungary there cannot be areas that are excluded from Hungarian people, but also because it is my belief that this is common. We have to find the way. It is necessary to find a way to ensure this within education and free of charge. Finally, honourable House, I think that this proposal is a decisive step forward. But is it one that will certainly solve this problem? Do you even have one? I mean, you can look at the examples. There are Anglo-Saxon types of education systems that are stone hard attached to certain feudal traditions and are so difficult to move. But they have time. Then there is an educational system such as the Finnish, which shows an uplifting period, and then, in the present time, it seems that it is not so perfect. Consequently, we can do nothing but look for the best way to bring about a new, more open and better period for all in this very important area in the coming time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-66	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP!
u2016-05-25-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to a lot of what has been said by my fellow Members, but I would like to start with the last sentences by Mr Turi-Kovács Béla. He said that basically it is a constitutional right for all children to have access to knowledge. Yes, honourable Members, of course. The problem is, it's getting less and less secure today. In the educational system that you have done, children have less and less access to the required amount of knowledge and quality, because it is decreasing throughout the system, and thanks to uniforming and centralization, quality begins to grow very low. The differences that appeared in the education system before 2010 were basically financing problems, although there were obviously also quality problems. But nothing, but there was no justification for complete nationalization, no reason to completely take away the autonomy, budget and autonomous management of the institutions, to regulate the National Basics so harshly, to take away the teaching freedom of teachers, which was practically limited by 10%. Madam Secretary, you were the director of László Németh, which was one of the most innovative schools before the change of regime. We were expecting something completely different. All his former students considered him one of the most creative educators. I don't know what happened. I don't know what happened to the Hungarian right. You say, as Béla Turi-Kovács said, that everyone has a constitutional right to access knowledge. But today we don't see that this is going up or that access is expanding, but we see what is in health care: if you have money, you get good health care, if you don't have it, you don't get it. If you have money, you can get the right quality education services. In Hungary, the number of people who buy knowledge outside the public school grew harshly. This is a symptom that something is not working well in the Hungarian state school system, and you are even more so in the 19th century. Instead of allowing new methods, good practices, giving in to educators, and introducing better practices, they move to the 20th century. And that's where creative school comes in. My colleague László Kucsák suggested that the political elite should go to what we mean by this. We know very well that in this fast-changing world, the 21st century is the first time. A man of the century on his own creativity is a man of the present, but most of all a man of the future. Through his own creativity, he experiences his own success in school and later in the labour market. Today, the aim of school is not only to transfer knowledge, but also to acquire the ability to recreate knowledge for children. The frontal education of the educator standing in front of the board, dictating something and getting it back on the plate, it's not enough on its own. We need more creative, more democratic methods. It's not enough that kids can write when they don't have the ability to write. It's not enough to be able to read if they don't have the ability to read. It's not enough to teach you two-two-four if children don't develop their logical abilities. And beyond that, the differentiated thinking, the ability to learn, the ability to dare to make mistakes, the ability to ask, all must develop in elementary school. In order to do this, it is not even necessary to machine on the National Basic Training Plan, but to help the state to create a completely new methodology and good practices. For example, what appears in private schools, innovation centres, must be brought into the state. This would require open thinking, freedom and, of course, I know, a national minimum. The Finns, who are now implementing new reforms, are looking even further at how they can be more successful, because there are problems there as well as everywhere. You could do that here. For example, if the political elite were to argue in Hungary about what a mechanic needs; I always go back to this example, because as a young representative in my first term, I was confronted with the fact that a fidesz congressman stood up and said, come on, Agnes, you're talking nonsense, a car mechanic should have a wrench and a hammer, and the ladies of beauty. Yeah, but today we're not installing Trabants, we're installing Audi, and it doesn't matter what they put on the ladies' heads when they perm their hair, burn it down or curl it. These are basic examples, but they show how the modern world works. And when a fellow Member bombes the opposition with this, and the whole spirit of the law is about that, I am shocked, and I have nothing else to say. The task of the State is to build a system with a critical amount of freedom, good practices and the ability to innovate. Uniformization, centralization, will not serve this purpose, even if they say so, but the teachers have the opportunity to do it better. No! They need development, creativity, their own creativity in the classroom as well as children. Finally, the creative school is the ability to recreate knowledge. This should not only be typical of the Hungarian school system, but also of the entire political elite. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-25-68	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State László Palkovics asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I asked for the floor because, in a very positive way, contrary to the previous political debate on education, this has started to become a professional debate day. And since most of the comments were not related to the amendment of the law, but to the issue of education in general, I would like to respond briefly to them. I like the example of a mechanic because for some reason, I'm a professional, not a mechanic, but a specialist in cars. I absolutely agree with the Member of the Council that today's mechanic needs not only a hammer and a screwdriver - he also needs - but also a range of other knowledge. What all young people who are involved in the school system basically need is two things. One of the things that has been said is that it is not necessary to teach or deliver the material, but to make the child believe that he can learn things. And you can learn it now, you can learn it in two years, and you can learn it for the rest of your life. And he also believes that the knowledge he acquires can be applied, so it will be useful to him. These are the two things we need to show at school. And then we agree about what the purpose of the school is. I'm not sure that was the case 20 years ago, because the world wasn't that fast, it wasn't that complicated; it became fast and complicated today. The other is what the elements of this thing are, what we have to do as a community. And not only does it belong to the government; we always tend to believe that the government is in possession of all the tools and knowledge, but it is also necessary for the rest of the community. [[14.00]] I think that the most important element is indeed the training and training of teachers, teachers and teachers. Here, Congressman, you mentioned that you don't see some kind of system. Then we're probably communicating something wrong. That's what's appeared in the last four months, by the way. The educator is the most important element, the knowledge of the teacher, the ability to adapt, the way to renew his knowledge. If we put our hands on our hearts, I think for the last 25 years, we've left the teachers a little bit alone. We left them alone to solve this problem in the 120-hour training required every seven years, and we didn't usually deal with it. That's not good. I think that this needs to be recognised, and it is important to highlight in the first place the teacher's further education, the support of the 160,000 teachers in their ability to truly adapt in this accelerated world, and to acquire a different kind of knowledge. And in the case of people who get out of college, the things of university education have to be sorted out in some way. We're not doing very well here either. That's why we have a task force that deals with these two cases. I think this is the first important thing. The second important thing is the framework within which we are doing this. It has been said here, and I believe that Mrs President mentioned that the basic curriculum alone is not enough. It's really not enough. The basic curriculum, the resulting framework curricula, must be accompanied by a methodology to implement this. Now we're not talking about teaching mathematics, we're talking about how we can do that in a class where the kid with the snitch, the kid with the worst abilities, the kid with the multiple disadvantages and the talent, feels that everyone in that community, in the department that he needs. Here, of course, we are once again turning back to whether teachers are really qualified for this, whether they have the knowledge to do so. That's why the first point is more important. The freedom to give in this matter is, I agree, that the teacher's freedom is great. It's big today, it's been big before, and it's got to be that way in the future. I think the textbook itself, what was said, we can add a lot of other things to that. Everyone saw the film, the memory of my youth is the company of Dead Poets to rip out and throw away the first 20 pages. I think that's probably how a teacher treats it. That you need a textbook or five, there are some examples of each direction. In France there is one textbook, we have 3600 textbooks, by the way, from 66 publishers that you can choose from. I think we can discuss this, but let's agree on one thing: if there is a textbook, then be good. And if it's good, then the teacher will decide what to do. Freedom of education. Obviously, in recent times, this has also been more intensely published in the press as to how we think to transform it. The transformation of the National Basics is not an ad hoc thing. When the Public Education Act was born, it was described as having to be reviewed, evaluated, and revised if necessary within 5 years. The five years are now, so now the task that was laid down in the law 5 years ago is going on. This is not because there were some protests, it is not because more people expressed their dissatisfaction, but because it was a task in a legal way. This is happening now. There are two elements to this. One of the elements is indeed the development of the curriculum, the design of the National Basic Lesson Plan with the standards or levels, the measurement possibilities of which we would like to introduce from September 2018. This means that this should be ready by the end of 2017. Congresswoman says we need to look around the world because we have no idea what's happening in the world. Well, whether that's true or not - you're obviously referring to the Secretary of State of the Ministry - I can't judge that, but I do. But for this reason, because we do not want to argue too much, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has undertaken the task of leading the working group of the round table on public education, which deals with the development of this. It's got scientists sitting in it, college teachers and teachers who hopefully have an idea of what's going on in the world, even if the Ministry or the Secretary of State didn't have that kind of concept. So this thing, I think, is bridged. The third important element is operation. That's where everything belongs. The functioning of the institutional system, its financing, its associated systems, quality management system, evaluation system. In this, I think what was introduced was a very thoughtful and good system. There were elements that were probably either too early or we didn't think about it. But that's okay, because the ability to change such a large system is important to realize that it doesn't fit, so we should do something else instead. By the way, the principle in itself, I think, has not been challenged by anyone. This system should be supplemented. In the law, there is an opportunity that is not currently included in the teacher qualification system so that the school director, the school community, can assess the ability, competence, performance and make decisions based on them. What are these decisions? One decision, for example, is not to make teacher further education ad hoc, not just based on what is available, but, for example, in the event of a lack of competence or lack of knowledge in the area. It's a decision. And the other is performance. There have been a lot of criticisms, based on both the public education round table and external opinions, that this career is not good, because indeed, performance is not taken into account, it does not give the school director the opportunity to distinguish between different things, it does not take into account quality. That is why we made the proposal in the law that next year the last element of the teacher's wage increase should be used in this way, under the operation of such a system. I'll talk to the state maintainer a little later. And the fourth, I think, is usually the school system, what it looks like, what it looks like in individual settlements, why the school districts are now that way. After all, I think everyone feels and knows that in a larger city, the school looks different than in the little village five kilometers away. He's facing quite different problems. If these are very separated and not treated within a system, then there is no way to deal with these differences in some way. So these are the four elements of the strategy that we have been pursuing since 2010, and that includes the decisions we have made so far and the ones that we have just made. As far as the state's maintenance is concerned, several questions have been asked, and I will now try to answer them together. Why 56, why 56, why not 55, why not 59? It could be both, it could be the result of a calculation. There was no political or any other aspect in this anyway, we looked at the fact that roughly within a given system, but to create a district centre of equal size and complexity, where possible, of course. A very important element is that the district centers are based on the districts. You said, Mr President, that walking is an important element of the Hungarian administration, and obviously also of education. That's why the ground rules were based on the districts of a district center. There is no district - except Budapest, Budapest is a little different from this point of view - which does not include one or more walks. That was a very important aspect. It was also a matter of not crossing county lines with a district, because then it gets complicated again. So a district is based on a certain number of walks, one or five, and covers the walks. There we defined the other optimism criteria that meant the number of civil servants, the number of civil servants of the institutions, the number of teachers, the number of other employees, the number of children and the identity of the future budget, if possible. This is very difficult here, because, let's say, a Budapest school district will always have a much bigger budget than putting half a county together in districts. Also, the distance, the physical distance between the school district center and the schools was very important. The distance is not important in some respects, since a series of administration tasks can be done digitally, so no invoices need to be physically entered, signed, stamped, and no income certificate required to go to the school district centre. These can be solved in other ways today. So distance doesn't matter here. Where distance is important, services or cases provided by one school or one specialist service to a school in another settlement. There is a significant importance of distance there, that in this way an organization has now been established where no other level is built between the head of the school board and the head of the school district. So the person who makes the decision is the head of the school district with whom he negotiates, and who agrees in certain cases, and the principal of the school. There is no other level, unlike the current organization. This is clearly what we expect, as in the case of a university, that there are no intermediate conditions between the Rector and the Deans, but what they agree on will be observed. That's how the 56 school district center came out, so we followed these principles. Of course, this is being finalised, the relevant government decree is being prepared, and the exact description of these districts will be published there. These were the principles, if that was the question. The budgetary issue: the current information-based budget in the immediate state of the 2017 budget. This means that it includes the operating costs of the part of the public-reserved schools that is operated by the State maintainer. [[14.10]] These will now be transferred to the relevant district centers, won't they? This does not include the operation of schools that are taken over from the municipalities. So the said HUF 55 billion - and I'll tell you why this is HUF 55 billion - is not yet part of it, it will be included in the budget law, as you said, the government is discussing it today. This is 55 billion forints, because of the last year's municipal reports, the municipalities spent so much on running their schools in the education line. So that's 55 billion forints. If this number is in any way - municipalities are otherwise disciplined, I believe, and as the municipal systems have improved, this number can be considered quite accurate. Here we did a series of plausibilities studies, relatively simply, we looked at how much it costs, say, to run a school for schools that are now redesigned in state maintenance and operation, and we looked at what it means at a private institution, and we looked at what it means to run a school, say, in university-conserved training schools, and we looked at what it means in the field of vocational training - they are different types of schools - and we looked at what it means in church institutions. This song could be good. If, on the other hand, this number is not good - and we will obviously be able to provide precise figures for this when the operational reception of schools in this sense will take place and we agree with the municipalities - then of course, the government will provide the resources needed for the operation. There were various figures here, 100 billion, Mr President said 60 billion. The 55 billion contain this in some way. It is important to understand that these operating costs. So the municipalities have spent a very small amount on development, school building, school renovation from this source. However, we have turned a great deal around, obviously from European and other sources. They're being put together now. How good the state's maintenance budget is, I would like to make it clear to everyone here that there has been intensive work in the last few months at the state institutionkeeper, the creation of a new organisation in eight working groups with serious experts. Practically everyone among them can be found. You can find corporate experts who have appeared as consultants, school principals, school district managers, county district managers, interest groups who have knowledge of this can be found. That's where the process of the new institutional system is now being built, the creation of quality management, until we break it down to the level of how such a district should work. This work will soon be completed, since they will soon be defined. Part of this is the planning of the budget, by the way. We have also planned the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget. For the sake of simplicity, this was absolutely a bottom-up design, so at the level of a member institution, so it is not a school, but at the level of the school's member institution that we know exactly how much the budget needs, in which category and from which we built the entire budget. It's been a very serious job here, and we've been using our academic excellences, and they're actually good at it. We have established this system, if you talk to school principals, school district leaders who have participated in this, even those who are not necessarily government friends, have acknowledged that yes, this is the design that is needed. I believe that on this basis I can say with relatively great certainty that this budget is a good budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Well, then, I guess I'll have to finish it. I'll talk to you another time. So these reactions are quick to what has been said here. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-25-70	The fact is, Mr Secretary of State, that as rapporteur, there are 30 minutes, but as a speaking member of the Government, there are 15 minutes for such a speech. So we will now continue our work with two minutes of speeches. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Three thoughts in two minutes. Firstly, the Christian Democratic People's Party does not support the municipal school system because its core values include solidarity, helping the fallen, and the municipal school system could not ensure this, not least involved in the development of this law. Second thought, he took part, not only in the Christian Democratic People's Party, but also in the Fidesz, and was accepted by the entire Parliament with the support of the government, so, to put it mildly, it is foolish to link this law to one person, namely to me. The third thought. I strongly object to what has been said here, more than once, that this education system or this law has failed. Let's see what elements this law contained. Just a few, because I can't list it in two minutes or a minute. The promotion of education, the three-year preschool, the compulsory community work of high school students, the teaching career, the supervision, the renewal of specialist advice, the qualification of teachers; or I could mention that the independence of schools has increased contrary to their claim, as they can decide on their own operation, curriculum and also have the opportunity to work on their own framework course. I don't really know about the latter, except for one or two alternative schools. What didn't work, that KLIK, that's what this amendment of the law does, but to say that this education system has failed, please, that's silly, not what this law contains. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-25-72	Congressman István Józsa, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2016-05-25-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, it is not appropriate to say such harsh expressions within the walls of Parliament that something has failed. The student usually fails at school when they sign up for number one, but he's got a chance to get a second exam afterwards. The results that this school system has achieved are, let's say, in comparison, the Secretary of State has also said what is in the world. If you know exactly what's going on in the world, let me quote the recent PISA survey carried out by the OECD. I don't know the details, they told me about his resume in Paris, because there was a little shorter time when we were informed that the Polish achieved an average of 20-25 points better in the 11-12-year-old population, and according to the experts it means that they have a year more knowledge, so the Hungarian students have less. And this is the most recent measurement, you can also look at the trend of this. I'm not looking for who's the reason for this, what's the reason. I'm saying this is a bad situation that needs to be changed as a matter of urgency. It's important that our students learn, and not only in school, but also in the nursery. So that a secretary of state doesn't get in here by forgetting what was in his nursery, what his parents taught him; what kind of family his minister grew up in, that he grew up in a traditional family where older people are respected, respected knowledge, respected experience. So I think the problem is much more complex. I am very pleased that you mentioned academic excellences, Mr Secretary of State. Let me add that you have underpaid academic excellences. And another word for Waldorf schools, if possible, is to be reassured, confirmed, not destroyed, as everyone knows now, that they're going to destroy it, and for talent management, they're going to come up with something, say, an analogue method in the German way. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-74	Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz!
u2016-05-25-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to say two thoughts, but let me say to my fellow Member, Józsa, that this is one of them. The other thing is that the public education law adopted in 2011 said that it is not only about the transfer of knowledge, but also about education, to appreciate knowledge, to value age, experience and education, because parents entrust their most precious treasure to school, more specifically teachers, to their children, and if you have seen a survey, then the teachers are the most trusted by the Hungarian society to do something 90 percent, teachers and teachers, which shows that this profession can actually be done with professionalism, this profession, as Mr. State Secretary said, on the one hand a teacher's education... We restored the undivided teacher training because it was destroyed before 2010. I worked in teacher training myself, yes, for 30 years at a major teacher training college, and I saw how Bologna is ruining teacher training. I just want to tell you that. So, when we return, the teachers are most confident that they should be focused on professionalism, professional knowledge and further training, as we have heard, and everything around them, the curricula, the profession, the operation, must all be in the service of this. [[14.20]] And perhaps another thought: I listened to István Hiller, and it is a sensible debate, in my opinion, if we say what there is experience, what is good, what is not good, and what is not good, and when we review it, we change it; and I listened to Agnes Kunhalmi, who says political - sorry for the expression, Madam Congresswoman - horseung, trying to meet the political expectation that everything is wrong, that everything is wrong, that we have foreseen and that education needs to be radically reversed. Our opinion is completely different. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-76	The president does not have the right to interfere in the carvering efforts, so he does not say anything, but only gives the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As I see it, a semantic debate is beginning to unfold. A few circles ago, there was an opposition to the word "sick" here. In our neighborhood, when a building leaks and water flows from the armature with the lamp lit, and it's life-threatening, then they don't use anything but that building rots and I used it just like this. The fact is that many schools are in this condition today, and I set an example for Gyöngyöstarján. The same is the case with the term "reform" failing. If there is general discontent after a transformation, there was a strike, petitions were made, protests were made, it's hard to say that he didn't fail because he failed. Moreover, if you read the OECD report, you can clearly see that Hungarian education is going in the wrong direction, so you have failed. There's no other way to refine this. There's no better word for it. Of course, we can figure out that he was temporarily, temporarily, unfortunately, bypassed, but it just doesn't make sense. He failed. That is why systemic changes should be made and not be grated; and that is why I use this term on a regular basis. And I agree with Győzsef Vinnai that, of course, the differences from the family should be reduced by public education, but the problem is that he cannot do that. Not only does it not keep it level, but it increases the differences from the family, it should therefore be changed fundamentally.
u2016-05-25-78	Now, please, the fact is that no one has made any further comments, but it is my duty to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State Palkovics has the floor.
u2016-05-25-79	Thank you very much. It was just a misunderstanding. I thought I could talk longer than 15 minutes there. Now, I'd like to go on with some reflections and, obviously, a summary. In connection with the public education system, we talked about the maintenance function. Many comments were made about the management of the municipality, how good it was, how bad it was. I do not think that this debate is worth continuing in this direction. Here, basically, the problem and the subject of the debate were how well such a mixed system could function when it was not certain that the responsibilities were clarified, and it was not certain that it was clear which part of it was responsible for. I mentioned a few examples of what we were talking about, say, the broken high school roof. Someone called us from a large high school in Budapest here in the neighborhood, that the roof was broken, that the KLIK should do something immediately, get it fixed. Yeah, but that wasn't the KLIK's job, so they weren't that good. The example mentioned is that the plaster was not painted behind the digital tablet, because it was not important for anyone to paint it, these are not good things. So I don't think we have to argue here that the municipality did or didn't do what it had to do; these kinds of mixed cases are not good. That is why the proposal is to achieve the goal of making schools work better. If the government assumes the responsibility to run schools everywhere, then it is clearly accountable. Now, where he doesn't supply it, it's obviously not accountable. The situation is bad in terms of control, of course, because if someone is responsible, say, for the lack of a particular instrument, if it is not operated by the government, then he cannot do anything about it; if he is operating it, then he is responsible for it, and we need to provide the resources and the structures that will make it work better. There have been some questions, I think, from Mrs Dóra Dúró, about the medical educational sites at all in connection with the case of specialist services. We absolutely agree on this, so much so that the 2017 budget has HUF 4 billion available to fill pedagogical posts. There would have been more here, but we can't build it so quickly at the same time, but clearly, strengthening professional services - and this, in a significant part, means the available professional capacity - will be one of the top priorities of the state institutions next year. I think it is well known to everyone that it is not only in public institutions, but also for everyone else, that the public institutionkeeper is also responsible for this task. So we'll have a solution to that. I believe that what is happening today in the field of vocational education and training has shown that we have heard various opinions here too, given the various examples of vehicles and robotics. Vocational training is training from the fact that it will issue people with professional experience. This inevitably has a consequence that it is not the same as high school education, so it is not possible to teach the same part of public knowledge on the same scale. That's what vocational training is all about. I think corporate feedback is very positive here. Because of my past, I know this area relatively well, here the companies are particularly positive, they clearly believe that yes, this is the direction they would otherwise expect. This does not mean, of course, that graduates in vocational training should be excluded from anything, and that for graduates in vocational education and training there is, in fact, a direct path to universities. [[To intervene:]] Yes, you can. So if you look at what's happening, based on the current curriculum, your graduation courses will be taught on the same scale as in high school, from the science subject, which, by the way, is related to the profession, they will be able to take a high-level graduation exam, and they can even take a high-level exam from the subject. So it is not even true that in 2020, when there will be a high-level qualification requirement, they would not be able to comply with it, as they can do so from at least two subjects. As far as their language is concerned: since they also study the language language, the language class is an hour higher than, let's say, in high school, so I think that all conditions are given. What gives them an advantage from their point of view is that they have a profession, so when they get into college, they already have the knowledge that comes from high school, which I think is an advantage for them. If you look at the methodology for applying points, you can still add 24 extra points if you have OKJ training. So shutting these students away from the university simply isn't the case, and the opposite is happening. And the fact that they have a profession, I think it's worth a lot. How much robots will replace the living workforce, and when, of course, this is a question, it can be quick and slow, I do not see this as a problem with the current vocational training system. These students, these children, are as capable of understanding, developing, operating that technology as they were of coming from high school and getting a degree from there. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes his place in the notary seat.]] I would like to add that we always forget that the study of a particular specialist does not end at the university or does not end at the secondary institution, but continues. Unfortunately, Hungary is not doing well in this, because if you look at the OECD numbers, on average 35 percent of the 30-34-year-olds in OECD countries are taking part in some kind of adult education. That's 10 percent for us. For some reason, we want to rely on the knowledge acquired at school. A normal company has a training catalogue of thousands of elements, from which they select what needs to be done, so learning does not end. What is very important is the acquisition of learning ability, because knowledge changes quickly. If we can do this - and that is what we agreed here at the beginning of my previous comment that the goal is common here - then I think it can be done very well here. The issue of autonomy was raised here, the autonomy of the university and the autonomy of the education system. If we look at it, there is also such an interesting thing in the OECD report about the curriculum autonomy of teachers in Hungary: it is among the first. You have to look at the same report, I'm talking about the same thing as Congressman. So curriculum autonomy is huge, there are no limits like elsewhere. Another question, of course, is how we can live with it, and I would like to give you an example. This is where we talked about the conversion of NAT. We have a short-term solution. Starting in September of this year, it is also a task to reduce the burden on children. To this end, the Institute for Education Development has developed a proposal with the participation of the Round Table, which we are discussing now. This says that we should define the national minimum, i.e. the standards or levels at that time, in the fourth and eighth grade, which everyone who goes to school in Hungary should know. This is a specific part of the current National Basic Training Plan, and this is what the school needs to achieve. [[14.30]] In addition, it is the decision of the school and the decision of the teacher to use the rest of the watch frame, the remaining time, and here there will be a very big difference between schools and teachers, as it is a much higher level in a Budapest city high school than, say, in the primary school of a village in Zalai, because that is the nature of it, but it is okay anyway. The point is that what has been defined as a national minimum - and this will be one of the elements of the complete transformation of NAT - must be achieved by everyone, because he wants to live here, so it is necessary. This will mean a substantial relief. Then there are other elements to make the class in the first, second class not 45 minutes, but 30 minutes is mandatory, the remaining 15 minutes is decided by the educator. We're talking about little kids who are probably tired by 11:00 and want to play, they don't want to learn, so let's leave it to the teacher. In the same way, let the teacher take into account the recommendations from the curriculum. One question: you have to get to the level of fourth grade, eighth grade and graduation, which we will agree on together. This will mean a substantial change. I believe that this kind of autonomy will be significantly strengthened in this sense. I think I've answered a significant part of it. In the meantime, I replied to Congressman Ikotity that specialized schools will not be transferred to the NGM, so there is no question here, they will remain in the maintenance of Klebelsberg. [[Dr. István Józsa: What about Waldorf?]] Waldorf is the same, the law, the amendment of this law does not apply; I think I answered that a week ago in the Finance Act. There's no uncertainty in that. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] We talked to Waldorf several times, it contains a clarification, practically their funding, so funding alternative schools is the same as before, so nothing has changed. It was a way of putting it in the law that no one else has ever lived with, and that's what came out of the law. So here, I think they're calm in the meantime. And we'd be happy to discuss with the foundation schools if they came on the basis of the invitation to a meeting called the Round Table. György Horn wrote a letter saying that he would attend if we sat down with the Teacher Movement. I think we should discuss professional matters here, so we need to sit down and agree, although they are not affected. I think these were the questions I wanted to address here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the protection of the settlement image until the closure. Government referral T/10728. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-81	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to say a few thoughts before the content is presented in detail about the great dilemma of the policy at hand, the built heritage it leaves behind, and whether it should play a role in trying to define, by regulatory means, the visual culture that surrounds us, and what we leave for posterity. If we look at the past decades or centuries in the case of Hungary, we can see a positive and a negative consequence of this. By a positive consequence, I mean the Millennial Constructions, which everyone today considers to be a protective value, and an architectural heritage that Hungary needs to preserve and use through enhanced function protection in the 21st century. In the century. And there is another legacy, which is the heritage of socialism, the heritage of the 40 years that today significantly determines the image of the countryside, we think only about one million Kádár's cubes in the countryside, but even in the built heritage, more serious protection can be claimed for areas, or for buildings that are found in the Castle in a completely nonbody way, or even in areas such as, say, the XII. district or other emblematic places in Budapest. Over the past few years and months, the government has launched a number of efforts to significantly reduce the bureaucracy of architecture. The basic objective of this was twofold: on the one hand, in the case of investments related to residential property, we introduced a regulation that reduced the authorisation procedure for the construction of residential immovable property with a floor space of not more than 300 sq m to essentially a notification obligation, and the bureaucracy that was one of the main obstacles for each family in building, in addition to creating the necessary financial resources for construction, was serious problems. On the other hand, this effort can also be seen in the effort to cut red tape in architecture, which concerns investment that is important for the national economy, we are trying to face as little administrative obstacles as possible, and we are trying to achieve the impact of these, which is, in the sense of the national economy, a productive effect, as quickly as possible. Here, among Parliament's walls, the fact that it is okay has been discussed on numerous occasions in these debates, these efforts can be legitimised, but what about the values that are linked to the protection of the image of the settlement, and what is the guarantee, the legal guarantee that new buildings or renovated buildings that have been created or are thus created will actually fit into the visual environment in which they have to fulfil their function and how we can keep the drives within the strictest possible limits, so that we do not give room for excessive regulatory tightening. I think that this is precisely the purpose of the proposal before you: it provides a framework for the content that has appeared as a government intention to speed up bureaucracy and home creation, and that in the previous debate, Jobbik, as representatives of KDNP or LMP, were essentially supportive of this issue, we believe that in this we will find a healthy compromise, where the level of regulation is not higher than necessary, than sufficient, and does not prevent, for example, the creation of a new residential property, based on publicly guaranteed or non-State guaranteed loans, or any other construction, where the removal of bureaucratic obstacles does not jeopardise settlement of the settlement image. To do so, we ask Parliament's involvement, and we believe that this proposal can find the framework, the guarantee that the opposition has missed in relation to bureaucracy reduction measures, where appropriate, in this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman István Happy. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-83	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think we can all think that, although it is not a long law, it is a very, very important law. If we look at the past decades, then we could all give us a deterrent example of how we could not protect the image, image, and the law on the protection of the settlement image seeks to ensure that the architectural heritage left to us by our ancestors can be protected, and we can build new buildings in such a way that they are included in this image. I think that this is a very important part of this law, and it also identifies the most important place for it, the municipalities, because it is always the municipalities who know how to protect, protect these buildings, and how to build new ones, or what should be designated when renovating. The purpose of this law, the promotion of works, the protection and formation of a specific image of the local towns and villages in such a way that the municipal municipal decree clearly defines the elements of the protection of settlements, the responsibilities for the application of the municipal image requirements; the municipality should provide a wide range of information on the municipal image requirements, thereby facilitating the effective protection of the settlement image in the design and construction of the buildings. I think that the fact that the municipalities, involving the population and the construction profession, develop their building regulations, their municipal regulations, is very important, but this municipal image regulation must be preceded by the municipal image manual, which must be drawn up in such a way as to involve the construction profession and to negotiate with the local community. This manual should contain all the image elements that will allow builders to have the opportunity to build. [[14.40]] I consider it important for this law to remain in the hands of the municipality with important powers to sanction the fact that if someone fails to comply with this regulation, and the sanction is quite a harsh sanction, as we are raising this sanction from the fine of HUF 50,000 to HUF 1 million. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this important law. I hope, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that, after most of the factions have agreed to regulate matters in this law, and this law is so important that they agree with it, minor amendments may be possible, but I think it is important for all of us to protect Hungary's built heritage, to protect the built heritage of our settlements, so I ask everyone to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-84	Thank you very much. Congressman Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP, is coming. Here.
u2016-05-25-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. This is not the first time we have dealt with this issue in the cycle, with a very diverse title, but we are discussing the same topic for many times. In December, the Parliament adopted an exceptional procedure for amending certain laws in the context of economic growth, T/8196. I repeat, you have discussed this once again in an exceptional procedure. Still, we were not able to figure out why this extreme urgency might have occurred on such a subject. There was no public, understandable, and logical explanation for this then, so there may be a reason for asking what was behind this. Obviously, some interest group or interest group that justified this urgency, because we still do not know why this was to be discussed in exceptional proceedings. If we were to prepare a little more carefully, we wouldn't have had to deal with this case twice since then, again now. I don't know if I made myself clear. So if we had paid a little more attention to how and how this could be regulated, we would not have had to discuss it again, but now I see this rush again. Yesterday we were invited to 13 o'clock, while there was a parliament for a five-party meeting. What's the point of negotiating a day before the trial? I think we all know that there are many grounds for that. During the preparation of the law, yes, there is. Then I'd say we'd be happy to take part in that, and then I think there's a point in showing up and giving the opinion there. The law that has been tabled is already on the agenda, and I do not think it is necessary to colour it any further as to why it does not matter. Returning to the previous thought, I think that the law adopted at the time caused quite a bit of debate and concern in relation to the law adopted at the time, which amended the construction law so that, in the case of construction of residential buildings of less than 300 square meters of useful floor space, brand-new rules apply to these buildings, if I suspect, as of 1 January. On the basis of these rules, more of the provisions of the local construction regulations could not be taken into account simply during the notified construction, since this law was an instrument of these rights, of these opportunities, which the municipalities most often had. János Lázár later presented the T/9369 on the amendment of the Act on the Shaping and Protection of the Built Environment. Bill No. 1. Although the environmental rules were in order in that law, they had reason to object to the fact that construction on the basis of a one-time announcement and based on its own taste could damage the city's image. We've already indicated this in the previous law. This is where we managed to get back to it again. The municipalities also saw that they could easily be entrusted with the implementation of the cityscape aspects. I think we can agree on this, that a given settlement or a given part of the country has construction features, specialities, historical traditions that are worth considering, so it is not appropriate to regulate this centrally, it is safe to entrust it to local authorities. Apparently, the local authorities also found a hearing. The last paragraph of the general justification of the bill indicated that, in the absence of a building permit, it is necessary to put the local government's municipal image protection tool system in a new form, so that a separate law should be drawn up in the field of settlement image and local protection, which will be drawn up in advance in consultation with society. That's my problem. Where is this preliminary social consultation? Obviously, you didn't mean yesterday's 13:00 meeting. According to the proposal submitted, there is a need for a regulation that excludes the application of individual municipal regulations containing municipal image requirements, which are not in one case unduly or excessively formulated or conflicting and thus difficult to apply, and instead impose specific requirements which are consistent with the legal concept of settlement image and which can be understood by all. It is worth paying attention here, because it is not a question of increasing the autonomy of local governments in this matter, but of rescinding local governments. We do not know what kind of data, experience is based on this statement of the proposal. We do not know in what context the proposal was considered, we do not know whether the municipal interest associations agreed with it or not. We know that the proposal considers itself to be a framework law. The decree of the law and the decree of the local government will provide the reasons for the link. Let us think about this: we will state in law that this will be regulated by the government in some way, but there is legislation on legislation that says that in such a case it must come into force at the same time as the submission. So the government decree should also be published. I'm very curious that this is happening, and I'd be willing to place a bet on it that won't happen. I don't know if Secretary of State would take the bet, but I'm sure you'll come to that in your reply. If it does not, then it will not enter into force, then on the one hand, they have broken the law, because it should already be here and we should see what this is all about. On the other hand, they create a situation in the lives of municipalities and municipalities that, in my view, leads to a situation that is not sustainable. What's this about? There is a legislative gap where municipalities simply do not have the opportunity to act for their own settlements, but at the same time the government decree which regulates this framework and does not. I don't know whose interest it is in creating this space. I am quite certain that this cannot be in the interest of those who wish to achieve regulated operation. In my view, this clearly indicates that this is not the aim here, and we will therefore not be able to support this proposal. We believe that the majority of the government will further weaken the municipalities. It is not here that municipalities will be able to enforce the municipal image requirements. This bill only seems to give the municipalities this opportunity, and in reality, the bill will be a government affair... - and their regulation will depend on government needs. In my view, the most repulsive thing about this bill is that for months, even years, construction companies that can engage in major construction projects under lighter conditions, while their responsibility is minimized by the Construction Act and this proposal. As I mentioned earlier, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-25-86	Thank you very much. Congressman László Földi, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The way our own janitor looks, that's who we are. When our work takes us to a village or city, or is simply driven by knowledge of it, the first impressions remain among our most defining experiences. [[14.50]] The impressions of which impressions are carved into our brains by the municipal marks appearing in our eyes. Our culture and the maintenance of our traditions obliges the villages and cities of Hungary to return the local characteristics and values in their appearance. Let us not forget that the place where we live determines every moment of our lives. In the present proposal, the Government, taking this into account, seeks to protect our existing municipal values by laying down specific requirements that are legally regulated and accessible to all. This will also bring significant simplification in the lives of future law practitioners, as so far the regulation of this area has peaked in a series of municipal regulations, which often contain general and conflicting passages. Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is therefore plural and complex: it aims to encourage both value-creating investments, family home creation and the uniform protection of the built and natural environment. At present, the local rules of the local settlement settlement settlements' specific legal institutions providing the protection of the settlement image, as well as the procedure for the opinion and notification of settlement images, as well as the local rules of the obligation in connection with the settlement image notification, are also contained in separate municipal decrees. The bill before us [[His phone's ringing.]] allows municipal municipalities to have a local... [[Dr. István Józsa: Something should be done!]] I'm sorry, my phone was buzzing silently. I'm sorry. It was mute...
u2016-05-25-88	Not so quiet, everyone heard. [[Defiance.]] But you're welcome to continue.
u2016-05-25-89	The bill before us allows local authorities to regulate in a local law, laying down all the requirements they wish to impose in order to protect the image of the settlement. This may include five separate municipal regulations and the relevant provisions of the local construction regulations in a municipal decree. An important new element is the establishment of the municipal image manual. The manual will be prepared with the help of the chief architect of the local government, with the involvement of the local community and with a wide range of social dialogues, but the content elements, as the law states, will be determined by a government decree. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the protection of the settlement image was drafted in the spirit of preservation and simplification. It is important that members of local communities can easily understand the requirements for the protection of settlement image, which will, of course, be collected in a single municipal decree by establishing a broad social consensus. The need for widespread information to the general public is essential, as the desire to build and build, supported by CSOK, will make many families directly interested in the near future. Our shared political responsibility is to regulate this issue in a transparent and logical way. To this end, I call for the wise agreement and support of my fellow Members. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-25-90	Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-05-25-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said here and there has been a change in the construction law in relation to the construction works below 300 square meters, it has indeed been mentioned in the press that this bill is also related to the fact that, in December, as a quasi-Christmas gift, the propaganda industry suddenly submitted this deletion of the building permit below 300 sq m, and then the Prime Minister's Office has barely been able to correct it in any way with the further amendment of the construction law that is now valid from 13 May; that is why this bill is in connection with us. I don't doubt that, it may have been part of the intention of the lawmakers, but I do think that this bill, thank God, says much more. I do not dispute the fact that there is no doubt a need for such a law, or that we are now finally trying to guarantee local value protection at a legal level and to give the municipalities an effective instrument. So they can create a decree that has a toolbox that can significantly influence the settlement image in a positive direction. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would add that the reason why this is really necessary - just a little back to the previous agenda that the House had discussed before - is because unfortunately, the current structure of education is very lacking or there is a poor education of visual culture, because if it were in it with sufficient weight and sufficient efficiency, it would not really be necessary to protect settlement image, because this would be a natural need for all Hungarian citizens. But until this is achieved and a generation of generations of which it will be natural to want to see a demanding, beautiful environment around it, there is a need for a law that also represents such a deterrent force and a subsequent regulation. What I said at the five-party meeting, I would like to repeat here on the draft law, which would be our concrete proposals. So the first and most important thing I think is what is 3. Therefore, what these specific municipal regulations may contain and what their basic purpose is, so what the content of the individual municipal regulations should contain. Here the main emphasis should be on local value protection. Thank God, there's one of those earlier decrees, this is 66/1999. FVM regulation, which is a very good example of Hungarian legislation, because this regulation was indeed born on a professional basis and gives us a very detailed and rich interpretation of what local value protection can mean. So once again, here, basically, the definition of retortions or frameworks should be about having a value register for a settlement, in which it assumes what the community considers to be an architectural and landscape value in relation to a given settlement. The regulation I quoted, this is 66/1999. divides value protection into two basic parts, partly territorial and partly individual protection. The elements of the individual protection are also part of the bill here, although it is incomplete, but the elements of territorial protection are only barely there, so I would like to present this separately, although it is obviously well known to all of us and to the preparatory members of the law. Thus, the settlement structure could also be defined as a protected value, where appropriate, in a municipal decree, including the street network, the plot structure, the mode of installation, the construction line, the urbanly significant green surface or vegetation. In addition, the settlement image, i.e. the outer settlement picture and the inner settlement image, as well as a specific street image, its detail, the landscape environment of the settlement, the appearance of the settlement in the landscape, the traditional cultivation mode, vegetation and natural environment, and the character of the settlement, in which the elements, forms, colours and colour of the settlement appear together. In this regard, I tabled an amendment which, therefore, made this amendment to Rule 3 (1). It would supplement and, in my opinion, make it complete. I really hope I'm banging open doors in this regard. What I also meant at the five-party meeting was that there would be a reception capacity on the part of the government in this regard. [[15.00]] The other question or suggestion of this kind relates to the image manual, which is a very important thing, since it is the value register itself, which will allow us to create a municipal decree. That's great. He is desperately needed in every settlement. But there are 3200 settlements in Hungary at the moment. I don't know, honestly, who can do this, who will be entitled to it. It is already narrow enough to see who can perform the main construction activity in Hungary today. Therefore, on this basis, only a very narrow range of people with an architectural degree can take up work in this sense when we see that the IVS, i.e. integrated urban development strategies, must also be created for EU proposals by individual municipalities, what a very high demand there is for architect offices which otherwise have the right and have a professional staff to carry out the related activities. What an unheard-of job the compilation of such an image manual would mean in all 3,200 settlements! It was just at yesterday's meeting that unfortunately not all municipalities still have local construction regulations, and given the fact that almost every day we amend the construction law and some 66 laws on construction processes in Hungary, there is no doubt that their warranty will expire. Besides, they should be reviewed every ten years, but on this basis, and on the other hand, they already have a number of parts that could no longer be in force; so they should also be reviewed by people, and I would add: money, because this is very burdensome in many cases. In particular, for small settlements, where local value protection is most important, we are trying to save what is still there, to even record it, say, in an image manual that we have, that is what is important for us, because one of the most important parts of community creation is that together, the population of a settlement can tell what is worth to them. There is no doubt that it needs to be oriented, so you need to be able to help them find out what the concept itself means, what is value, and what can be found in that particular settlement. So, in this matter, the fact that it is actually this value cadastral in these settlements who and what they are going to do it with, it has not come out to me from the bill and from the budget of the settlements, unfortunately, I have to say that there is very little chance that it will be able to prepare with its mass in the near future. The other point that I would like to talk about is the question of the settlement-image obligation, which is transferred from Étv. into this law, and it is the mayor who can issue the obligation, and in the end, the body of representatives is the one who can impose the fine. The fine that has come into play in Hungary today was 50 thousand forints, unfortunately it was not enough for anything, it was never set in sufficient order, but indeed, this 50 thousand forints could easily be calculated by the builders. But let's say this one million forints could be a more serious deterrent. Here, however, two things may arise. On the one hand, it is possible to apply abusive law if and if it will not be described in Government Decree 314 in such a way that it cannot be abused through the relevant regulations. Once again, that is why it is important to focus on value protection, because in my understanding, the basis for this abuse is already well narrowed down. The other thing that was also raised at the conciliation was that, if I understood correctly, the preparatory of the legislation basically means new constructions, new constructions, so that there could be an additional opportunity to regulate the locality, the body of representatives and the mayor. But unfortunately, today there are far fewer new constructions in Hungary than there is a big problem with the settlement image, and there are street paintings in the most disadvantaged areas where precisely such a municipal obligation - if we use this tool well and use it in good interest - could be a serious weapon, a serious instrument, and for example, in the case of the issuing of demolition obligations, this could be an additional opportunity for the representative body and the mayor. From this bill, which is before us, I see this opportunity less, even though it would be very helpful. Today, in Hungary, it is the competent district building authority who can issue this type of demolition obligation, unless there is a force majeure situation, in which case, let us say, the notary, the local notary, is also authorised, but this really can only apply to cases of force majeure. But in other cases, the district building authority can no longer perform it in many cases in the case of properties that are otherwise uninhabited, unidentifiable, or unaccountable. What I would like to say, which is also lacking in this draft law, is that there is no hierarchy between these regulations and the individual municipal regulations which affect the construction activity in that municipality, and there is not, and for the time being, a higher level of legislation that would bring order to this issue. At the meeting, his colleagues said that when the Government Decree 314 was drawn up or supplemented, it would be clear from the order in which the regulations were drawn up or drawn up that this, let's say, value cadastrator or the subsequent municipal image decree, and then it would be possible to create a local construction code. Yes, this succession is important now, but it still doesn't create a hierarchy in the system. So I think it would also be important to clarify in this respect that it is important to create this hierarchy in order to say in a settlement what we call value, what we must be able to preserve, and what we are tailoring to our construction legislation. So let's not destroy or destroy what our ancestors have created with a poorly formulated local construction code and a regulatory plan, say, in a wrong place, a new installation area or a wrong zone category, and so on. Finally, to conclude, let me add one more thing. If this bill is adopted, it will enter into force, the government decree will be completed, the first image manual that I will look at, and the first municipal decree, Budapest XIV. I'll tell you honestly - I'm already interested - whether the head architect there will be the House of Hungarian Music, called a pancake, which the president of the MUT will call a limped pancake, or the large shoebox, which the former head architect of Budapest calls pragmatic - for information to the Secretary of State, this is our new ethnographic museum - how he will be able to place in this portrait manual. So, yes, that's the way it is for now, if it only applies to young people who get up early and work hard, but it doesn't. I respectfully report that this will apply to you. It will therefore also apply to investments of major importance for the national economy, such as City Park. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So you won't be able to build anything at any time. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to inform you that, with this speech, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I am now asking Mr Szabó Szabolcs if he wishes to speak in this debate. [[Szabolcs Szabó: No.]] He doesn't want to. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Congressman István Józsa asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.10]]
u2016-05-25-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, For me, what has emerged in the debate is that a lot of good intentions are expressed both by government representatives and by other speakers, perhaps even by the government, but the outcome is quite incomplete. So it turns out that under 300 square meters of ominousness, there is only a requirement to notify, no permission, this well-meaning idea raised problems, quite a lot. This, as I understand it, may be much more, is somewhat linked to the extraordinary situation brought with it by the lack of authorisation of less than 300 square meters, so the cessation of the authorisation obligation has brought with it. Also, I'm not sure I understand, but this image manual could be good or not. Mr. State Secretary mentioned as a negative example that there have been such facial manuals, which have resulted in the creation of dice houses, but I am sure that there are such nice old installation situations - Hollókő, downtown Csongrád, the old architectural heritage of the Tiszamenti settlements - which may not be able to obtain historic protection, but, let us say, a cityscape protection would certainly be appropriate. So I feel that the good intentions are there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But if, let's say, the legislative law were to be followed, we might see clearly what the task is now. Thank you.
u2016-05-25-94	Thank you very much. Congressman, don't sit down, because it's Congressman's turn to make a proper speech. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-95	It's an exceptional situation to continue after breathing. So I mentioned not a two-minute part of my comment for a sentence already, that if the legislative act had been taken into account in the presentation, so, to put it a little more bluntly, it would be legitimate to present it, then we should also see the Government Decree, which would ultimately bring about the substantive implementation of this legislative concept. I very much hope that during the preparation of such a draft legislation, which significantly affects construction regulation and the appearance of the built environment, the rapporteur consulted both the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Architecture and other similar professional organisations. If you have not done so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this would be very useful before the government regulation is established, because, as strange as it is, these professionals have not only knowledge but also an opinion, so they could give an opinion on the issue. I can give you a negative example of our time. For example, the OTSZ, the National Fire Protection Code at the time and when it was created, was not able to ensure the proper application of the profession's opinion, and, if all is true, there is still an incredibly strict fire protection policy in Hungary, in which the builder cannot decide what he chooses, whether the Fire Protection Code guarantees the protection of life; the Hungarian Fire Protection Code also wants to guarantee property protection, which, say, could be an investor's own decision to entrust it to the insurance company or to include it immediately. The Hungarian OTSZ decided to protect the property as well, so, for example, building storage rooms and huge storage halls in Hungary costs 20-25 percent more because of the fire protection regulations that make up the rugged way. It provides for automatic systems that are likely to be decided by the investor on the need to install them, because it may be worth paying this money little by little, in terms of insurance, more than at the same time in the context of the investment. It has been said in my fellow Member, Dezső, that in December Parliament discussed some of the laws relating to economic growth as a matter of urgency, and that good rules and facilitations have also been adopted. At the same time, there is a real question of what is going on until this government decree is passed. In the meantime, what do the municipalities have to stick to? It is true that the freedom of creation must apply to the municipalities, what they consider to be protected, permanent, and in order to be drafted in order to express this opinion, it has been quite right here from the opposition benches, which requires not only heart, love, good taste, but also some funds to create this in a professionally manageable way, in the form of a local decree. So the next thing I would like to draw attention to is that if the government takes this proposal seriously, it should also provide the municipalities with a financial opportunity to meet these opportunities and to make use of these opportunities. It has been noted that there is no regulatory plan for the Liget project, and I would like to draw attention to this in other areas, in my own constituency, in the area of the Kopasi dam, since Mr.Garancsi's involvement, this area, the investment and the development of the bald dam has suddenly become a priority for the national economy. Yesterday, beautiful visions appeared in the media about what buildings I would like to enrich the environment with. It would be good if they really brought it into line with the harmonizing parts of the built environment, because there are some very nice, very modern buildings around the Lágymányosi bridge, so there really is a modern urban environment, and I wouldn't be against tall houses if it happened along some concept, if it wasn't limited to one or two sites there for a self-serving purpose. They're trying to coordinate a little more in a broader dimension. Perhaps they would give money to the power plant in addition to that chimney, the highest chimney in South Buda, which has not been used for 15 years, which would cost only HUF 100 million to be demolished, say, in an additional, complementary, environmental-forming charity action, let's say, the investor has already made sure that he doesn't ruin his own city image. The other thing that is also narrower in my Patriot is the XI. I would like to bring it from the district, from NewBuda, to the Kelenföld Railway Station, in fact a small, small house, a building of Kelenföld Railway Station with not too high protection, which some professionals stick to with their teeth and nails, even though it doesn't suit the environment. When they put it there, it didn't have an environment because it was a plain, there was nothing outside the railway track, they put it there, and then there was a modern urban environment. This structure, called Kelenföld Railway Station, remained there, and now they insist on it by some unimaginable protection. So if, after the adoption of this law, there is a possibility of rethinking, I hear that there are some ideas that the South Railway Station will be moved further along by a track, say, Kelenföldi Railway Station will be the final stop, and if this is the case, then I would very much ask that this house should not remain, because it is not really worthy of this task, no matter how much it carries certain elements of the age of K. und K. [[15.20]] But it wasn't the top of architecture then, and today it's definitely untimely for the given task, and I have to consider it inappropriate for the aesthetic environment. Many may share this opinion, there may be other opinions from experts, but if we want a skanzen, we should not do so in a modern environment, but instead find a different solution. In conclusion, I would very much like to see that at least at government level, they can bring together economic growth, easier measures to improve the state of the construction sector, and facial and urban image protection tasks. It is regrettable that a well-intentioned proposal, given that it does not show the government decree, which would reveal the content, appears as a somewhat empty framework, as a torso. I would demand that the government decree be published as soon as possible, and that otherwise Eligible targets are proven to be in reality. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-25-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There is one more thing to mention in relation to the design of the settlement image, especially in view of the capital city. If we look at the problems and issues that have appeared in the press over the past period, then I have to refer two of these cases to your attention, where the settlement image as a cause can lead to changes. Take, for example, the number of terraces in Hungary and, above all, in Budapest at certain restaurants. It is possible that in relation to restaurants that apply for a terrace permit either to the capital city or to the districts, there will be friendly restaurants that will receive these terrace permits, because they will fit the settlement picture and there will be others that will not. If we think about the past month or two of Gerlóczy restaurant, we see that they were constantly trying to destroy - why, that no one knows - this restaurant's operation, first they wanted to break open the decorative covering, then they did not want to break the decorative cover, but they wanted to protect it, so they didn't give us a terrace permit, and then when the court said that it wasn't a proper position, they figured out that they would rather use this terrace as a jailing ground. The point is, for some reason, they want to destroy the restaurant. I wonder if that's not how it's gonna go down. And then they always accuse us of not talking about Lajos Simicska. So let's talk about Lajos Simicska. You have concluded a 25-year contract with him in the capital for the placement of certain advertising posts, and a 25-year contract has been cemented in the capital - unlike the concrete in Dunaújváros - so that the advertising posts can be out in the capital. You supported this business of Lajos Simicska for 25 years in principle and tried to secure it across governments and metropolitan governments - because you were still their friend at the time. When they didn't become friends, they tried to break them up. And that's not the problem. I don't care if they can kill Lajos Simicska. I don't care. [[Noise in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But the message doesn't matter, dear fellow Members. So the message doesn't matter what they keep sending to Hungarian citizens, what they keep sending to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I mean, if you're our friend, you can do anything, but if you're our enemy, we're gonna kill you. That's the message. The biggest problem in Hungary today is that the laws, the laws in force, the regulations in force do not apply equally to everyone. In Hungary, everyone should be equally subject to the rules, the laws, because this is the only way to build a normal country. If we make laws and regulations and there will be rules on settlements, which we make uniform, then we have no problem with them. But if we don't enforce the laws in a uniform way, we don't enforce them equally for everyone, but we can have problems. So we have a huge problem with the message in these cases. We want laws not to be brought before this House in a way that serves their own interests. For the past six years, it has always been necessary to look for what a law before Parliament is really about, what the reason for bringing it in here is. Yesterday we talked about - I dare say this only because Mr. Secretary of State was here - whether we changed the public procurement law yesterday because it had to be changed because it was in the interests of the country, or because it was in the interest of Andrew G. Vajna, because, unfortunately, it would not have been possible for a company which, on the basis of consideration, was allowed to go on public procurement procedures for three years, in vain. That's our problem here, too. If we develop certain settlements, develop and define equal laws, then there's nothing wrong with that. Just don't have any discretion, don't have friends who can and can't. And I'll give you another example that might be important. No one cares - again I am talking about Budapest - about what it looks like when you look at Buda's view of Pest. There are two buildings in the Pest view that really prick you. These two hotels are on the lower quay, which doesn't fit the cityscape at all. I know it's not your problem or your fault for the past 26 years, because they weren't built then, they didn't allow these two buildings in this area, but that should be changed. For the past 26 years, no one's thought of doing anything about these two buildings. I know it can't be broken down, because that would probably be too much of a price to pay to change the view, but then we'd have to come up with a sensible solution, either by changing the facade or by obliging the owners to build a facade there or by creating a facade that fits into the cityscape. But when you look from Buda to Pest, you see these two buildings. In such cases, it can indeed be very good to have a settlement with uniform municipal standards and try to make the settlement more beautiful. But once again, do not abuse this, do not try to abuse it, because it undermines the faith of Hungarian citizens in legal certainty and undermines the belief in legal certainty of small and medium-sized enterprises who can start any business with any initiative they have to start by first looking for friends and friends close to the government. This is not a good solution in Hungary today. We want a small and medium-sized entrepreneur in Hungary regardless of governments, whether he is a restaurant owner or a restaurant operator, not depending on who he is on the government, not on who the mayor is, who the mayor is, but on whether he follows the rules, complies with the rules, and so he can take a normal course, because if he follows them, no one will hurt him. So we don't want any abuses. I just wanted to draw your attention to this law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.30]]
u2016-05-25-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to respond to a few thoughts, because I see that there is perhaps a pan-party agreement on the need for regulation; there is disagreement on the formal issue of regulation, which, for example, was referred to by Mr Reliable. However, I would like to say that there was indeed a five-party consultation yesterday, but this proposal has been available on the website for more than a week. No questions or amendments have been received from you or anyone else. That's why we thought if there were no more questions, we'd call you. I don't know, but I don't want to get into it. Following the advice of Congressman Józsa regarding yesterday's discipline, I would certainly not want to fall into the error of personalism. The regulation that we are talking about and why I think that you are wrong, Mr Reliable, is that, on the one hand, there is a construction regulation relating to the construction of residential dwellings of less than 300 m2 and the authorisation procedure for it. There is no disagreement between us that when the state has the opportunity to provide countless public services, whether for companies or individuals, digitize, simplify, bureaucratic obstacles must be kept to a minimum in terms of opportunities, not bureaucracy as a barrier to slowing down whether it is a private building or a public investment or a corporate investment. On the other hand, what we are talking about here, and what makes us think that this should be regulated completely separately, is what are the legal guarantees that give us the opportunity to really create the visual environment that, thanks to these constructions, will be a worthy legacy that this generation can leave to posterity. I see that, and I am surprised to be honest with you, that I see this in the parliamentary opposition too, or that I see the intention that you, too, consider it important that, at some level, the policy at hand must influence the visual environment that we are creating by means of legislation. On the question that you have raised, Mrs President, that if visual culture or public taste were to be at the right level, let me put it this way, you should not be dealing with this regulatory environment, you are absolutely right. But just in order to create this possibility at all, for example, beyond the regulatory instruments, we are trying to establish a framework for how, from primary education institutions to the highest level of education institutions, to start the education of visual culture. Mr. Congressman asked me about this, too, Mr. Reliable Member, and so did you. There is indeed a regular and serious dialogue with the Association of Hungarian Construction Artists, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers and Architects. I would like to remind you that last autumn - I look at colleagues here - Minister Lazarus signed an agreement with these two alliances, precisely so that in these legislation, which, according to our vision, regulates construction for years or decades, there is indeed a professional consensus, and that should not be guided by political aspects, but rather by objectives that everyone can agree with. Congresswoman asked, but then the entry into force of the regulation came into force with Congressman Józsa. According to my colleagues' signal, this will happen at the same time as the law enters into force, so until then it will be completed, and there will be no intermediate situation when the two regulations result in a hiatus. Congressman Józsa has changed to developments in Budapest, as well as to new real estate in Liget. I agree, although we will not be able to conduct this debate within the walls of this House, but I also think that it is appropriate to designate a part of Budapest where modern architecture may appear. There is a debate about this which has now been taking place for decades, about what can be the highest built-in height, and whether it is justified by a, basically, the city character of the XIX. in the case of the capital won at the end, the appearance or extent of the modern architectural elements. I think this is a sensible debate that would be worth discussing with the expert community. But I can see that there are two positions here, regardless of party status, within ideological families. One part of it would allow support towards modernity, and there is another part, I say again, regardless of the ideological environment, which says that the image of Budapest is the XIX. It must remain within the visual framework established by the end of the 20th century and the current urban architecture must essentially move within this framework. With regard to the railway stations that Congressman has asked, there is indeed a substance on the government's agenda, which is precisely the question that the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union asks: How a modern city can meet the transport challenges of the century, and today, partly thanks to the development resources provided by the European Union, partly thanks to the resources provided by the government, there is an opportunity and an intention to reconsider the situation of Budapest Railway Stations. This first concerns three railway stations, as Minister Lazarus shared with the press. On the one hand, it affects the Western Railway Station, where the government has a concept of park development in connection with the Liget project in an area closed between the Western Railway Station and Podmaniczky Street, and exiting it, from the Ajtósi to the Hungária Boulevard, a concept of park architecture, which can function only if the railway development is completed. But if we're gonna solve the rail development, we're gonna have to touch the Eiffel Hall, and we're gonna have to fix the main station. There is an ambition and a question as to whether or not Kelenföldi Railway Station can take over the role of the South Railway Station. In this context, there is also the need for the development of Kelenföld Railway Station not only from a railway technical point of view, but also from an architectural point of view. And there's a question of the South Railway Station. These issues must be resolved within the next tight timeframe, months and weeks. I would like to respond to some of the points raised by Mr Szilágyi; I would leave the Simicska issue in the political debate. But since I think that the public attention to this debate is below the level that we should now have a political debate here, I would like to refer to the other part, the terrace permits. The government's goal, whether with the laws and regulations that affect the construction sector adopted last year, or which we are discussing now, is to establish a single framework where the government determines what these local architectural architecture manuals should regulate, so to speak. Where I really think it is very important, what Mrs President said, is that local values, the preservation or updating of architectural heritage in different regions of the country, in the sense that the preservation of architectural heritage, but XXI. It should be performed with 100th-century functions. The fact that there are important elements to be protected in rural architecture is also reflected in and reflected in the government's decision, this refers back to a parliamentary discussion we had last week, which we conducted with the congresswoman, which is precisely why the government raised the ratio of external integration from the previous 3 percent level, because we think that this area is where there really is an architectural heritage, here I am talking about the farms, where it is worth thinking about this issue. By changing the rules on integration, there is also a need to change, as appropriate, the sources that we have opened up for families or businesses thinking about interior construction. So they need to be extended to this area, which, we think, could give this story another energy. Locked in parentheses. Returning to what the Member said, the government has a clear intention to develop uniform rules. This regulation could not only be resolved in relation to the terraces, and this is absolutely within the scope of the regulations of the local authorities, but, let us say, this could be rethinked at the shops on the Körút. More and more open, thank God, once again after the big mall construction flare. But the regulation must be clear and clear as to what should be regulated in these architectural image manuals. But these have to be very clear. Who gets or doesn't get a terrace permit, the government won't and won't interfere. This should be the responsibility of the local authorities. We can only provide guidance on what they need to regulate in a single image and what the maximum level is that they can regulate. This points to the fact that if the level of visual demand appears or develops, which, I think, is once again the subject of public demand within Parliament, it will demand ever less regulation, and will allow the public authority not to appear as a sanctioning authority or as a penalty authority on this issue, but as an incentive for creative initiatives that really contribute to the creation of an architectural heritage in this generation as well. We can be just as proud of it as we are proud of it, and we are trying to protect it in several debates, such as the Liget when it was built. [[15.40]] Or let us talk about what is on the agenda today, for example, for construction in the Castle. For example, in the historical reconstruction of the Castle, I think there is a political consensus today. There is a debate on what we are building there. But the question of the Castle is, for example, what is the original condition, which the government's intention to renovate must be recreated or rebuilt. What is the original: the medieval image of the castle, or the image of the castle before World War II? How exactly does this contribute to today's public reflection on the Castle, as we know the Castle today? It is interesting to conduct these debates - a small literary survey at the end - because when the castle constructions were established before the World War and during the millennium period, the plans for the Castle, which many believe were part of the plans and political debates to be rebuilt. Political debates in which Márai specifically considered architects, who were then creative and today viewed by everyone, to be talons for the renovation of the Castle and for the reconstruction of the Castle and for the new buildings. Or, for example, if I was talking about the Liget, those memories of the same public debates could be made by our predecessors in today's form. It's ripe for another reconstruction. There's another debate going on. I think that the government is a partner in this, adding that the government wants to preserve, expand and deploy green areas that everyone is concerned about. So it is the diversity of the rules on architecture and the obligation to take a multifaceted approach that justifies a number of ways, more laws and more regulations to support this area, rather than what the opposition often assumes is that there is nothing but haste in the context of this. There are many issues in which it would be worthwhile not to involve political but rather expert communities outside the walls of Parliament, but not to hold debates that may be held in the background of political value. I think we're open to that. In the last few weeks, I tell you, we have had countless debates with representatives of the press in connection with the Carmelite monastery in the Castle yesterday with the Architect Chamber, the Association of Hungarian Construction Artists, all of which are open, so we welcome the opposition. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-25-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments on Thursday, which is until 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the draft law on National Farms and Farms until closure. The government referral is T-10730. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Your timeframe is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-101	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Since we have started talking about historical dimensions in the previous article on construction, let me not save this here, and start with a little recitation of the government's introduction of the Law on the Farm and Farm of Ménes. A brief presentation of the rich history of the stud estates in Mezőhegyes hopefully also explains the background of the government's plans today. Based on the plans of József Csekonics, he founded the Cseregonic and Királyi Ménes Institute of Cserehegyes on 20 December 1784. Emperor Joseph, to restore horse stocks reduced by the Austrian succession war and the seven-year war. The stud estates began operating on some 30 thousand hectares, with nearly 600 horses. The main result of horse breeding here is the breeding of horse breeds, of which three were declared national treasure by the National Assembly in 2004. Mezőhegyes was one of the few studs in the world that cultivated four of their own species, thanks to the variety of horse flocks and the high level of professional qualifications, the breeding in Mezőhegyes was an internationally recognised and internationally registered breed. The horses bred here at the Paris World Exhibition in 1878 were a great success in various branches of horse racing. Originally established for horse breeding purposes only, the breeding institute grew beyond the development of horse breeding in the mid-1800s and gradually extended its activity to the entire agricultural area, in the early 1860s the breeding of Hungarian grey cattle began, and then the breeding of mangalica pigs, which was one of the oldest pig farms in Hungary. By the turn of the century, one of Europe's most modern, large farms was established, with its own telephone, telegraph and industrial plants, as well as its own church, kindergarten, school, hospital and nursing home. Mezőhegyes survived the devastation of the Second World War, and in the communist era, after the merger with the sugar factory in Mezőhegyes, the farms of Bánkút and Múzegyháza and the sugar factory in Mezőhegyes, he was typically a socialist major plant. In parallel, the total area of the State Economy of Mezőhegyes increased to nearly 20 thousand hectares, the conversions affecting the structure of the estate were made in mass constructions serving the quantitative needs of the socialist large-scale economy and in the development of the centre of the stud estates into a city. However, the buildings raised by communist construction technology were significantly affected by the traditional architectural nature of the estate, and parallel to the constructions, technical deterioration of the former historical buildings, partial or total cessation of majors, and possible refocusing of farming sites were observed. The change of regime has affected the settlement negatively, the state economy has gradually been dismembered, and the former unified stud estates have basically fallen apart. During the privatisation of the government that came to power in 2002 in 2004, and as a result, livestock farms were closed down, the seed plant was sold, and the tourism supply started to ripple. Until the change of regime, a settlement with a population of 10,000 inhabitants, of which there were 3 000 agricultural workers, has now remained a settlement of 5 000 inhabitants, with 450 working in agriculture, i.e. a small over 10 percent of the previous 3 000 inhabitants. Meanwhile, deforestation in forests around Mezőhegyes has become continuous. Dear Parliament, Although the government decree has provided direct state control over the task of livestock holdings, and the government decision has declared itself a model economy, more effective intervention by the state is needed to save the property that is our national treasure. In view of this, the government submitted a bill on National Farms and Farms. The aim of the proposal is to preserve and develop one of Hungary's most important agricultural areas, as well as to promote agricultural farming based on tradition, but using modern technologies, with state involvement. The aim of the development is to maintain native breeds of horses, to create a stable and large herd of studs, to develop the area through the promotion of education and tourism, and to combine the currently fragmented parts of the estate under unified corporate governance. For example, the production of protected native Hungarian breeds of horses in Mezőhegyes and the conservation of genetic value and the breeding of the Hungarian sports horse species, the production of genetic value based on performance, the production of traditionally Mezőhegyes farmed farm animals, the production of livestock feed and grazing land management, educational, tourism and horse-riding activities related thereto, theoretical and practical agricultural vocational training, education, further training and adult training in line with modern needs, as well as the provision of cooperation with public education, vocational training and higher education institutions providing agricultural training, and the provision of practical training facilities, and, finally, the increase of population conservation in Mezőhegyes and its region. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Protection of genetic resources for agricultural purposes worldwide, including in our country, is a priority state task and an obligation in international treaties. [[15.50]] In particular, conservation of the genetic stock of protected indigenous and endangered agricultural species is of particular importance. Traditional varieties are related to specific landscapes, countryside and cultural circles. They are part of our national identity, as well as the symbols of Hungary. In the case of Mezőhegyes, this applies particularly to the breeds of horses cultivated here, which can best be maintained in the cradle of the breeds. In addition to horse-breeding, the farm has played a prominent role in the development of the entire agricultural sector in historical perspectives. The high-quality cattle and pig flocks in Mezőhegyes, the outstanding crop culture, and seed production have made Mezőhegyes decisive in the renewal of livestock and plant production, in the nationwide spread of valuable new varieties and methods. The agricultural area currently covering nearly 6500 hectares also includes the state-of-the-art irrigation system and water management improvements, most of which were implemented through state aid. In addition to the technical tools for water management, other conditions have been laid down for the development of the agricultural water management culture in a common area now owned by stud farms. The further objective of the development is to engage in the traditional seed and propagating material sector in the region. Seed production in Hungary is a strategic sector, since it produces products worth HUF 180-190 billion per year. This sector also has a significant role to play in rural employment as it provides around 60,000 seasonally and about 5 thousand full-time farm employees around seed production. In the area, it may be possible to engage in the seed production sector with significant labour capacity. Dear Parliament, For posterity, it is essential that the area rich in its natural beauty and traditions preserves Hungary's oldest memories in its original state. The area is a significant agricultural-cultural historical site, which is to be preserved for posterity with its buildings, equipment and traditional tools located on the farm. It can also be a symbol of Hungarian cohesion in the Carpathian Basin, and the stud property can also provide access to educational and training opportunities for Hungarian communities across the border. Through developments adapted to the traditions of stud estates, with public involvement, it can become a prominent agricultural, training and tourist player in the region, while also making a major contribution to the complex development of the agricultural sector. The management of livestock holdings is determined by the involvement of the public owner. The company operating the stud property is accordingly established in the form of a private limited company owned by the State by one person. Without the successor of the state stud in Mezőhegyes, it will cease. The property and land necessary to carry out the work of the stud estates are insured from the areas and built heritage belonging to the stud estates, as well as from the livestock of the state studs in Mezőhegyes. In order to protect the built heritage, it is necessary to ensure that the buildings belonging to the stud estates, which represent the centuries-old historical memory of Hungarian horse breeding, are preserved and refurbished in accordance with the needs of the age. The performance of the tasks of the stud estates requires not only an economical view, but rather a complex management vision capable of integrating the historical traditions of the Hungarians as a riding nation with modern challenges. The draft therefore introduces strict rules in the framework of the establishment and accountability of the management bodies of the stud estates. It ensures transparency, practicality, professionalism and economy of operations through a multi-level monitoring mechanism. Strict deadlines guarantee the effective participation of the State as owner in the economic and daily operational processes of the stud estates. Dear Parliament, The key to the revival of Mezőhegyes and its region is strong and prosperous, competitive in international comparison. It does not simply mean the creation of a new company, but rather the re-creation of the original foundings of the Ménes estates in Mezőhegyes, the historic traditions, the prominent place in Hungarian agricultural culture, the creation of a complex agricultural excellence institution operating on a world-class basis, with the increased involvement of the state, which is a guarantee of stable and reliable operation. That's why the government is asking for your kind support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-25-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we will decide on the establishment of an economy here in the coming weeks, which is Hungary, I would say, its outstanding agricultural-cultural historical value and treasure. In order to protect state property, to carry out training tasks related to certain branches of livestock production and crop production, to preserve the gene pool of historical Hungarian horse breeds, to improve horse tourism and to improve the employment situation of Mezőhegyes and its region, the government took the view that the land and forest areas of Mezőhegyes, as well as the land and forest areas of Mezőhegyes, were used by the government. This is how he establishes the National Farm and Farm of Menes. We are living in historical moments, my honourable Members, because we have not had this in Hungary in 232 years, that such a [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches:]] re-establishing and re-establishing the economy. But you can ask all of us why this is necessary. I think this will be mainly from the opposition representatives. It is simply because there was a privatisation period in 2004, when, I might say, the farm itself had full economic background, strength and employment. And unfortunately, after the privatisation in 2004, he suffered the serious, almost irreplaceable losses that remain to this day. Allow me to tell you a personal story or recollection. In the early eighties and mid-nineties, I visited Mezőhegyes on numerous occasions, and as a practicing agricultural man, I always wondered how wonderful it could be in such a large area, on a land with 40 golden crowns of gold to manage proper irrigation conditions and rules. Of course, the basis for this was the military herd, the atmosphere, the approach that still exists in Mezőhegyes, that is to say, that people must be controlled, but that order and discipline was already there. Today, however, we see it - and as much as I do not like to point back into the past, but I must do so - that when the most valuable majors you go through are all owned, apart from one or two, when you see how a well-functioning, truly top-of-the-line plant was today... - I don't want to say that we're rust cemetery, but we're very close to it. A significant part of today's machinery park is leased, so they are not owned by today's economy, and their fate is also questionable. Or we can see the buildings owned by today's economy, where a window in a five-meter band is a color, the next window is a different color, and these houses are still there today, partly uncultivated, in which workers and pensioners live - a sad picture, my fellow Members, which you can see today in Mezőhegyes. Indeed, it is a city that is experiencing an extremely difficult situation during this period, which is today on Mezőhegyes; it is saddening, frankly. And that's why I think the government made the right decision when it overestimated it, revalued its previous decisions, and founded Mezőhegyes as a model economy, a demonstration economy, and a teaching economy. [[16.00]] This will be the economy that, I believe, will be worthy of the ancient culture, the ancient culture that was founded in 1784. I dare say this because the law gives us all the right authority to do so. The most important questions of this law are how and how we can lift and lift this region back, I do not think that it is once again ten thousand inhabitants, but to stop migration, I think that this economy and its role in the life of this region have a major role to play. This is important because people who live there have virtually no other job opportunities. We also know that the traditions, the activities that this former economy has had, if we cannot fully restore it because it cannot be restored, partly the technological and technical conditions have not been added to it, and I am also convinced that it can be maintained, even with modern technologies today, the use of new opportunities, the introduction, creation and development of new activities, I believe that serious employment opportunities can be provided in the region. Of course, for this to happen, we need a law, a government background that provides an adequate, secure basis for this. So far, there has been a lot of talk about horse breeding. Yes, this horse-breeding, this - I can tell you now - four kinds of horses, the nonius, the gidran, the furioso and the Hungarian sports horse, which gave these breeds a defining, ancient foundation here in Mezőhegyes, but at the same time we also know that these horses are not today, these are not the flocks, these are not the studs in Mezezőhegyes. Therefore, the law does not refer to a number of questions that we have to solve in the process, so for example, the trotting stock will be removed from Mezőhegyes, and the ancient gidrann stock that was taken from Mezőhegyes about thirty or a few years ago will be returned there for various political reasons. So we go back to the basics. In the same way, the law remembers the Furioso breed. The Furioso breed, we know, is also a species cultivated in Mezőhegyes, although today these individuals have very few ancient possibilities in studs. Therefore, in an extensive way, together with the Furioso Horse Farming Association, we will have to look for the mare lines in the country that still form the offspring of the ancient mares families of Mezőhegyes, and with them we will have to restore these stallions. But this is only one part of the story, because I think that what we imagine in education policy in Mezőhegyes is a little contrary or perhaps unusual - rather, I put it this way - compared to today's education system. I am convinced that education will be an important priority in such a large economy and in a unit of decisive power in an area, and that we can imagine this as an independent educational institution within the framework of the stud and teaching economy itself, where we can safely train those professions and professions that are increasingly lacking in today's agriculture, which we can solve locally. I dare say this so bravely because if you have the practical training site, it's much easier. Today, much of the practical training sites in Hungary are based on outdated techniques and technologies. I do not wish to offend anyone, but I cannot bypass the fact that, even if he says something to someone, with Rs 09, which was a rather strange-looking tractor in Hungary, today, children are taught in countless schools, who, if they go out to life, have no idea that there is such a thing, even the generations that knew it have been lost. Therefore, I consider it important that new technologies, mechanizations, which are inevitable in the case of Mezőhegyes, become familiar with a new technique that, if they get home to the family, or if they avoid another agricultural entrepreneur, they are already known as ready professionals what it is that the satellite-controlled tracking system, know the latest sprayers, know the newest varieties, know the power and machinery that are now largely available in agriculture, and not a past, but go ahead and train young people who will take over the baton in the family, older generations in the family farms, and of course they can also work in agricultural holdings that are still in operation. I therefore consider this to be a major turn of events, because such training, such joint training is not in Hungary at the moment. I trust we will find support in this, too. At the same time, I think it is very important that the results of the research should be used in such a economy, not in basic research, but in applied research, when the most recent techniques and technologies are tested and applied in an appropriate way at experimental level, and later on, professionals should be shown how they should be used in practice. We would also like to make this economy a professional place, a place of further training, and we would like to raise it to such a rank and capitalise it in such a way as to make it a decisive, inevitable economic unit in Hungarian agriculture that can perform all these tasks. There are the monuments, there are 24 historic buildings at the moment, the renovation and exploitation of which is inevitable to preserve for posterity. We still have those railway tracks in one or two stone roads, in one or two roads that once connected these ninety-some majors in Mezőhegyes. Now I'm not saying that all this has to be restored because we know it's not very possible, but what we can do is return the picture that we can see of Mezőhegyes on postcards published around the turn of the century. It must be re-established because it is an attraction to the region, to the employment policy of the region, to the value of the region, which can be linked to a tourism programme. From Szeged to Gyula, we can draw a line, and there is Mezőhegyes at the centre of it, ten or a few kilometers from the motorway, and now it can be reached from Budapest in two hours and 15 minutes. I believe that it is our duty to maintain and show posterity the value of agricultural and cultural history that this city and this region have retained in part. For this reason, I believe that this law is exemplary from an agricultural-cultural point of view, and for the region it is a reassuring and secure law, including an employment policy that has long been awaited by Mezőhegyes and its region. There are a lot of insecure people living in Mezőhegyes, who have almost lost, I might say, their faith, their trust in the future. In my experience, I can safely say here in Parliament that these people are looking forward to the entry into force of this law with increasing enthusiasm, and they believe that, together with us, we all believe that this region will indeed be given a new power, a new opportunity, and that the people who live there will regain the opportunity that they have taken from them. I trust in this hope that my fellow Members will also support this law. There are, of course, many professional issues to discuss, many questions that we will certainly discuss, but believe me that the goal is to restore the region's reputation that was established in 1784. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State to take his place. [[Nándor Csepreghy takes his place as Secretary of State.]] I know it's hard to sit through three things in a row, but trust me, it's just as hard for the president, and the horseshoe can't be empty. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Sorry!]] [[16.10]] The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As much as we have listened to here in the last half hour on the farmhouses of Mezőhegyes, it rarely happens in the debate of a law, and I have to say that I agree with both the correct historical outline and the vision of the future that we have heard here, and Jobbik supports this law, as in the committee meeting, where the subject was raised for a short time, we have already talked about it. At the same time, I was amazed to hear these comments, because we weren't here a few weeks ago, and the matter of the farmhouses in Mezőhegyes didn't seem so important to the government. And if all this good historical recollection and hope for the future were sincere on your part, then, for example, it would not have come to the question of privatizing land belonging to the farmhouse in Mezőhegyes. Interestingly, at that time there was no mention of the protection of horse breeds, centuries of traditions, faith in the future, and prospects. Simply as a veterinary horse, the farmhouses of Mezőhegyes show how socialist and fidesz governments have stolen the Hungarian countryside in the last 25 years. This was a perfect example. Not only the privatization already mentioned, which I also consider to be a very serious sin, and I regret - I note in parentheses - that accountability has not remained in this area either, but the previous sloppy treatment and the total government indifference after it all show that these values were not important to the government at all. But let us kindly allow them to suddenly enlighten themselves and become important to Mezőhegyes. I am under suspicion that this is more due to the serious local indignation and professional indignation that surrounded both the privatisation of Mezőhegyes and the doing of nothing in the current government and even the privatization of the land. I do not know that if they felt this value, as we say, we felt it before, since we drew attention to the fact that it would not be good for them to privatize their lands, then why they allowed it, why did they even get this far? And speaking of which, I'd like to know if our pro-government representatives have information about where György Simonka is or where he is, because I think it would be fair in this story to press a button and tell his own version, because maybe he could tell us the most about this story. Plus, the people in the field and the people in the area would expect this to stand up here for the stud estates. The fact that Sándor Farkas received the management of this case, I tell you honestly, I was pleased that I hoped that if he had been appointed as such as Prime Minister - if I may say so - he was set at the head of the case as a Commissioner, it might be a positive move forward. I'm really sorry it took a scandal, but at least we've come this far. The fact that there is an independent law for the studs, and there are reasons for it, I accept that it is an important matter. But the fact that, as a model economy, we will have to discuss each model economy here in this House individually, this is the result of the fact that, despite their many promises, you have not even brought before the House the law on plant regulation, either the law on family farms or the cooperative law, and in any of these, the rules on model farms have not been regulated. Today we call it a model economy, what the government appoints as a model economy, while the Fundamental Law is clear, and we should define this together under a two-thirds rule. The reason why it was or why it could be Mezőhegyes can be supported by arguments. We fully agree with him, and I also think that, based on all his values in the past, present and hope for the future, he can be a real model economy, but for example, why the Csányi Empire became a model economy, I think we could have a good debate here in Parliament. That he is with his own huge company empire - I can now say this only on agriculture - to whom and how he can be a model in Hungary today, in which I believe there is no agreement between us. It is no coincidence that, for example, his model economy case is not dared to be brought before Parliament, but if we looked at this law about Mezőhegyes, if I wanted to be malicious and, say, to the Constitutional Court, I would bet that this story would fail, simply because we would have to regulate it by two thirds, as their Fundamental Law commands. Of course, in this case, I will not do this, as I have already mentioned, in this case I agree with the legislation. To bring it back to prosperity, to bring it to world level and to increase public participation in this area, this would be a series of steps that Jobbik has been pushing for for for a long time, and not just on this issue. Perhaps the most positive part is the economy, and I must highlight it, and not only in the case of Mezőhegyes, this will be an important step forward, but I must say that it would be worth creating such a colony almost every county. The Hungarian education system, including agricultural training, and here I am thinking primarily of secondary education, because we are still in a better position in universities... - there are huge shortcomings, and there are constant calls for help from all areas of the profession that there is no sufficient quality of supplies in this area. So I urge my fellow Members that, if the model of Mezőhegyes is so important and they have recognised that this is necessary, it would be worthwhile to come up with a multitude of similar economies in a very short time. Thus, as I have already said, Jobbik will support this present proposal, but we would be very interested to know that if this outrage did not happen - and I hope that one of the authors here can answer that - what has happened would indeed lie here. Or why didn't you think it was important to save Mezőhegyes when this story started? Or do I do that, by privatizing state lands, how many more Mezőhegyes have destroyed me? How many opportunities did the Hungarian state lose when, based on the state's land assets, we could have created similar farms, say, a viable estate size for family farms through permanent leases? ! Where is the demographic target programme, the social target programme that has been mentioned? How will there be land for municipalities to start any similar project? All of these have been heard in the national rural strategy, and even the strategy called the rural constitution included the need to increase the state's land assets. And compared to that, we're seeing a total privatisation and retreat. They're continuing the journey that their ancestors had begun, by the way. So I am saddened to experience that, unlike all the positives of this law, it also proves or therefore proves that a lot of similar initiatives have been taken away from the air, the opportunity, and I do not know how, if we wanted to start up elsewhere, in other counties in other areas, similar economics would be possible in the future. I trust that in 2018, at the latest, a fair government will be able to recover a significant proportion of the national assets wasted in privatisation and provide these areas for similar public-interest projects. I wanted to say these briefly, Mr President, and if I could get an answer not only at the end of the debate - exceptionally - I would like to thank you, because I think that we are elected here to have a substantive debate on such legislation. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, please.
u2016-05-25-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for the historical overview that we have received of the stud estates. It can be very, very interesting for all Hungarians who look at not only the history of the Habsburg succession war, but also the years after how to start the breed of horse breeding in the country, to which Mezőhegyes became one of the final stages, and then between the hardships of history, how all that happened during the time of the Council republic, with the export of Romanians, happened from the nearby situation. Mezőhegyes has been through a lot, and much has happened there, and I very much hope that this proposal will be a positive and positive step in the difficult journey that will happen. Obviously, I do not want to contradict what my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar said in any way, because all the proposals, if they wanted to do good, this proves how much better they could have done with the state lands that are now being released from their hands during the field privatisation. How many similar economies, how many similar rural areas would create the possibility not only in one place, but also in different parts of the country, to show something constructive, something positive, something forward, something perspective to the countryside, rural areas, and I am sure that I will be happy if they can do this in Mezőhegyes. [[16.20]] Overall, the presentation has also highlighted a number of things that I think it is absolutely appropriate to reflect on between the uplifting moments. Sándor Farkas mentioned the guilty privatisation of 2004. Overall, I can fully share the view that, indeed, what a thing it was when the profitable part of something was released into a private hand while the loss-making part of it was left for the State. However, the one thing I ask of my fellow Member, who has much more political experience and history than I, is to remember that in twelve similar cases, the Fidesz government did so during the first Orbán government. I think I suppose you may have been to St. Thomas and you've seen the former English stud, but I think you've been there more than once, not twice. So releasing them, closing them up, is just as historical a crime for the government at the time as it was for the government at that time in 2004. Obviously, it would be good to speak of this clearly once, if we review the privatisation process of the 25 years of such national treasures - whether in the Almásy Castle or in other parts of the country, our similar architectural memories - the past of the old noble estates transformed into the state economy appears with the same government responsibility as it did with Mezőhegyes. It may be mentioned only in 2004, but unfortunately we have not been lacking in such government decisions in recent years. My fellow Member has mentioned that it cannot be without looking back, and I say the same thing, that we must look back on the period, the time of these once great estates in the Lord, and that it is because they have been repelled locally many times with the interests of the current large owners, since they have been less affected by the compensation. State economies have remained, and perhaps the privatisation of state economies has created the false state that brings many, many curses everywhere we go in the Hungarian countryside at the moment. Overall - and forgive me, pardon a opposition representative - I have a lot of positive feelings about the proposal. I think that it is indeed the duty of the state to create not only education in such places, but also model farms, rural jobs, and in those regions of the country where a right-wing economic policy, a capitalist economy built on the market cannot create suitable jobs, the state must intervene and participate as a direct employer. Mezőhegyes is not the only region in the country where this would be greatly needed, and it would be very good if this model economy really served as a model for the government to think of such model farms instead of further squandering state land, and instead bring them to Parliament so that we have an exemplary model area throughout the country. Also, forgive me for bringing so much subjectivity into my speech because I myself - how long ago? - a good 15-20 kilos ago, I obtained my training in horse sports in Mezőhegyes, and, obviously, I am very pleased to know the stock there, because I have managed to reconstruct the forward direction of Hungarian sports horse breeding. For my part, I am still looking at the positive feelings of the return of the gydra, since it is a species of very narrow mare. I do not know what will happen to the other traditional varieties mentioned by my fellow Member, the nonius, the furioso-north star, but I do hope that the situation of these will also be resolved at some level. But let me draw attention to one thing we've learned in the last few years. In Bábolna, where a state stud also works, the leader of Bábolna bought such mare families at surprisingly high prices. So right away, excuse an opposition representative, I wonder if these technical purchases, the purchases of these mare flocks, will give us the opportunity in the current horse market, when we are glad to be able to sell a pedigree, excellent breeding mare in cutting weight, and then how they will be ringing for millions here for mare flocks. If it doesn't happen, then I'll be the happiest if I raise my word on no grounds. I am particularly pleased about what my fellow Member Sándor Farkas talked about, and it is obviously very good to talk about this, because we do not have enough time to talk about the technical possibilities and tools of precision agriculture, how this educational background is suffering and how it is lacking in Hungarian agricultural secondary education; from Kenderes we can look at a lot of vocational education institutions, where, indeed, we would like to create the possibility of creating farmers that meet today's needs with much better technical background and much better equipment. Indeed, it can be progressive if there is knowledge of this, where it can be handed over. The tech's making amazing progress. These... sorry, I don't always remember your name, these artificial and flying things... [[To intervene:]] We've seen the use of drones in the precision system for pesticide use. It's got amazing potential. If agricultural education is going to take on all of this, then there is sure to be a European level of training. At the same time, it is at least so important that not only the large estate, who has the money to buy such techniques, should have the right professionals, but also the qualifications to leave secondary education institutions in agriculture by people who are able to farm independently, who can take over their own 10-20-30-50 hectares of land from their father, who, by reducing the rate of land lease, create the opportunity for more farmers in the country with greater rural employment. And if all of this is done, then it can really be a model economy, it can really be a model educational institution, and it can really be what it contains in the justification of the proposal. Basically, the perspective that the entire proposal is projected is very, very positive. There are obviously questions about how the moral basis of everything is evolving. I don't know, we've heard a lot about what the future of the business led by Michael Kun will be, what will happen to those jobs, whether there will be a guarantee that the existing jobs will remain or that new jobs will be created. You can't really see the details of these things. There are a lot of unclear questions that the proposal does not reveal. Basically, this creates a typically positive and well-directed opportunity, but it also clearly involves risk. I don't want to be a little bit - I'm telling you honestly - demagogic, but I always have the doubts that Minister János Lázár - I think we were both at that committee meeting - said that when the MSZP government is in place, MSZP management is stealing the state economy when the Fidesz has a fidesz. I didn't say that, Minister Lazarus said that. The concern of this is how you - and not you, I don't think that everyone here is necessarily in your pockets... - to create a brake that suits their own, so that it can be prevented that some of the state budget doesn't go away with $2 million and 5 million in executive wages, but with decent income from agriculture. An economy like this will be able to produce results with agricultural self-sustaining capacity and not only cost the state money, but can finance that education system with its revenues. Once all this is accomplished, I say once again that it can indeed be a model economy, only to do so I wish that God would give me the strength and strength to keep no one's conscience weak when there is a common trust on some level. The May Other Group of Politics will obviously discuss it at the faction meeting, and I will definitely propose the support of the presentation to the faction, and I would like to continue the work that our previous leaders started there, and would not be the first. Although my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, began his speech by saying that this time was of historical importance, since there have been no such state-wide investments recently, unfortunately since the imperial or royal times, these large state economies are usually not very good memories when they were established and were not very voluntary. Now, however, the Fidesz government still has the opportunity to know that it has been two years or more of government, but it is still not too late to start doing good. And there is still the opportunity to benefit from the existing remaining state land with such model economies and positive results with what they have at their disposal. They still have the political power to do so, and I hope that more of these forward-looking and positive proposals will be brought here than there are worrying ones. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2016-05-25-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now address Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Looks like there's only gentlemen in the room. The resolution of the agricultural crisis caused by Fidesz must be facilitated by law, and therefore, the Conjoint agrees that this law has been brought before the Parliament, although we believe that it is a bit incomplete and that the proposal is delayed. Here, I'd like to make a parentheses comment. My better-looking fellow Member has referred to this before, and I will sometimes be obliged to criticise the Fidesz on this matter, but, obviously, it is the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr Simonka who is responsible for this. [[16.30]] Special is the Prime Minister's Office and Sándor Farkas, in this case, we consider that he is on the right side, who have undone what the Ministry of Agriculture and Simonka wanted to implement, namely that they wanted to hand over state-owned land in several rounds to private individuals, and thus virtually no longer have large-scale production there in Mezőhegyes and around it. It was also apparent from the rapporteur's preface that this was a large plant that had been operating for over 200 years, and this was what the settlement itself had built on, so from then on it was a completely dejective idea both professionally and politically from the very beginning. Therefore, what I am criticizing is, for once, not to be taken on by the Prime Minister's Office or by Mr Wolf, because, as I said, I believe that we would rather be allies than opponents in this matter. Here there are those who - I don't know where, because they should really be sitting here, and they should take responsibility for the fact that, in the last year and a half, let's say, the Mayor of Mezőhegyes was running up and down and down, and he didn't know what the future of the settlement would be, and the workers working there were worried about what their future would be, and what they would make a living from, and he had to worry about what would happen to Mezőhegyes. If this repulsion had not occurred, what would have happened was that the population of the settlement would have decreased even more and the few people who would remain there would have fallen into considerable poverty. In this connection, I would also like to add that Mr Farkas is probably still the most ideal candidate among the pro-government representatives, he knows exactly how a large plant works, he drives it, he understands it, so I would like to ask you a few questions about the comment, if you could answer, I would like to thank you. You're probably the one who can answer it rather than the author. Locked in parentheses. So, in itself, by introducing this bill, we agree, although the real legislator's intention now only covers taking back the land distributed during the distribution of the large plant from the stromans and others. For this reason, we have been demanding for months in the course of 2015 and 2016 that this three-stage land lease application process should not be fully carried out, in this case we also protested, and the people of Mezőhegyes know precisely that we tried everything we could for the future of Mezőhegyes. Everyone could have known even then that these lands had to be taken back. In the fall, we were talking about the model economy, which is now included in this package of laws. So the reason why we will have to pay compensation to the tenants and owners, who, in the meantime, have obtained this land with the application, is because Fidesz has run ahead without any concept, and now we have to reverse this case from tax forints. The agricultural model economy in the single estate area is therefore a good solution, provided that the State takes seriously the obligation of operators resulting from historical traditions. The law doesn't quite make that clear yet. The truth is that they have written an introduction in this form, which is not necessarily necessary for the establishment of a company, in civil law, and then at the end, at the final provisions, they settle the matter and take back the land. When the land is taken back, the bill submitted does not contain any amount of compensation. That would be the first question I would ask Mr Farkas if he could comment on how much this is going to cost. Should compensation be paid, or should it simply be returned to the amount that some people may have paid in the meantime? The government's haste is ridiculous that there is almost nothing in the law on the basis of the content of the sample economy, and in the meantime, in the field of land, the price is missing, as I mentioned earlier. What other content issues should be addressed? On the one hand, if it wasn't all about taking back land theft, then we should start thinking about how the water grid will be operated. We have heard here that separate buildings are located in Mezőhegyes and in the border of Mezőhegyes, which are not directly connected to the water supply system in the county, but are in a system of their own, which is operated by the company that is still privately owned today. I'd like to ask you what you're planning on doing with this. For example, why not promote a solution that can simply be transferred by the legal basis of succession, and then perhaps it would not cost hundreds of millions of forints to build a brand-new drinking water supply system? The next question is how the inland roads will be managed. These inland roads are privately owned at the moment, so it doesn't look like a normal urban outskirts road, which, say, is in the management of the road maintainer, but is in the management of the Ménes estate, he is partly his tenant, partly his owner, and he maintains it, for example, they push the snow, they fix the road faults. What will be the fate of these? What about workers who are working as permanent employees or seasonal workers today? Why isn't the law about protecting their jobs? Why does the law not make much clearer provision for the preservation and enhancement of the built heritage? That is what my Fidesz fellow Member pointed out, that there is a very serious built heritage here, partly in good condition and partly in a rather poor condition. In particular, there are major problems in the case of majors and outlyings. So the problem is that this is not exactly the point of the bill, because the MNV could actually set up a company without law, and then it shouldn't have left the point out of this law. In fact, there should be a long-term guarantee of how the future of Mezőhegyes will develop. This horror has been going on for a year, as I mentioned, from the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr Simonka. After a long year, we got to the point that, fortunately, large-scale farming will remain in Mezőhegyes, it seems that they may even try to expand its content a little, although I mentioned that this was not yet sufficiently outlined what they were going to do exactly. In fact, it can be said that a year and a half has gone by unnecessarily, and what we see is that at least half a year will pass. And that's where the other question comes from, which is what's going to happen this summer. You are obviously more aware of this than I am, Mr Farkas, that if we interpret it correctly, these lands will be taken over sometime in the autumn in the new model economy, but in fact, their ownership will be lost at Ménes estates. Who's gonna harvest, who's gonna do land work there, so who's gonna run this whole economy? Here's a few months old hole that needs to be plugged in somehow. And it's not interesting in itself, it's an important thing, of course, that the border is cultivated, but people work there, they have to pay wages, and the rest, and the rest. So if you could tell me something about that, Mr. Wolf, I'd really appreciate it. On the other hand, I would like to ask you that there is a very small area in question in the case of land ownership, which is 300-400 hectares, which is not state-owned land, which is rented by Ménesbirtok Zrt., but is owned by them. This is the former state... [[Sándor Farkas intervenes.]] Yeah, that's from the state's economic past. What about this one? [[16.40]] This may be an interesting question in terms of legal certainty, so I would like you to have something to say about this. So, overall, I can only say that we basically agree with the introduction of the law, even its direction. There are some of these uncertain factors, which, if you could add a little more, you could solve these problems, you could answer these questions, you could say that this is an eligible direction. From now on, I think that it may be possible to start working at some point in Mezőhegyes, too, to move forward with the settlement, as mentioned by the Member, in tourism, agriculture, other related activities, and also to calm down the management of the settlement, so that at last, one and a half years after the elections, it can start to deal with what is essentially his job to manage the settlement and improve the development concept and to develop the settlement itself. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Sándor Farkas. I would like to ask him, since he is registered for two minutes and for a proper speech, that he will try to answer so many questions for the first time in two minutes or give him the opportunity to speak properly.
u2016-05-25-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When the first questions were raised, I thought that the two minutes were enough, but there was so much question here that I pressed the regular comment button that, if possible, I would like to respond partially to the questions raised by my fellow Members, which they rightly asked, and they asked legitimate questions. I believe that I will be able to respond to this in a significant part. Maybe we should go in a chronological line. I would like to say to our fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, that the date is practically an important issue. These lease contracts expire on 1 January 2017. That's my answer to doing nothing. In fact, there was a contract, and then in the fall there was a law on model farms, followed by the idea of a draft law on the new National Farm and Farm. This is a time process, when it has matured within us to create this law, and as a real example... - as I would like to stress this, my information and, as far as I know, such a agricultural-cultural historical value is not different in Hungary. Well, let's get this straight. There's Pábolna, there's Szilvásvárad, there's Kisbér, there's a lot of other locations, but there's a lot of other places, but there's still an economic group, believe me, at least not to my knowledge, and that's why this election fell to Mezőhegyes. Mr. Sallai R. Benedek asked me about the breed of horses, here he was careful about buying mares. Yes, indeed, all of these breeds do not now have not only the studs, but the kft., which is why we have decided, the nonius has its populations, we have its mother mares, we have the gidranes from Marócpuszta, which belongs to Szilvásvárad at the moment, we take it to Mezőhegyes, it is state-owned, so there is no problem here. At the Furioso-north star, we would like to buy a couple of mares, not astronomical prices, at a daily market price, from the animals still present in the studbook of the mare family of Mezőhegyes. I'm very strict about that, because I know that the horse is always a little bit of a mess, everyone's afraid. I've known this equestrian world for 40 years, I understand the suggestion, and I think it's fair, but I'd like to give you nothing more than the daily market price. Of course, it won't be my competence, but I'm sure it will be. Of course, there was a question of where they would train professionals who would learn these professions in Mezőhegyes. Of course, this is not about major training, and I would like to say this very firmly. This is about training professionals who will stand up at any moment, in any sector of agriculture, at any moment. Today, a large machine, a 260 horsepower machine, can be in operation, on a private farm. The technical content is the same, so we need to train professionals to handle and apply these machines or other technologies. So I could say that this training of professionals is completely sector-neutral, and I did not think that such a question might arise. What about the workplaces, Szabolcs Szabó said. I would like to say clearly that the intention is - and this is not just an intention, on the basis of preliminary negotiations and negotiations, I would like to say calmly to my fellow Members that I would like today the workers in the stud estate to be able to take over practically one-on-one from 1 January in the new National Farm and Farm. Of course, there are some owners with whom you probably won't cooperate with the new stud estate, but I think it's natural in such a situation. So let the workers rest, the workers at the farmhouse in Mezőhegyes, I would like to say from here that they will be taken over, and they will probably work with a legal continuity in the coming period. That's the question of what's going on in the fall. This was also a question for us about how to resolve this period. I've made preliminary arrangements with the leaders of today's stud estates, and they're basically going through this year at the production level, but the autumn works are certain now, so I say they'll be carried out under supervision, which means we're asking them for the next year's planting plan, which we're supervising, and we're counting it on the deadline of 31 December based on a field inventory. So I think it's a perfectly fair procedure. Whoever sowed this year still cleans, reaps, has a contract anyway, the various contracts are important, and the new life starts on 1 January. Of course, we will be able to do the autumn work, the work, the fertilization and the other professional tasks in a proper way. The water network was a question. It was a crucial question in the field-heaven story that they would be left without drinking water. The studs said that they didn't provide water after April 1st, that was a very good mood, and the whole Hungarian press jumped on it, and everyone was making fun of it. I had already negotiated with the water provider in the region, the Great Plain, in March, and we agreed that it would carry out a survey, as it turned out that there was a part of the drinking water network that was more than a hundred years old, a lead piper. We used to say, who hasn't seen anything like this before, I've seen it, unfortunately, not recently, some time ago, when the wire was dug up, there's a hole in the lead pipe, and then a piece of bicycle interior rubber is thrown out and thrown at you. They're not gonna fix it by keeping it from flowing, just not squirting. So I've seen it happen in several places, and we're gonna solve this by making a plan for Major 10 because that's what this story is about. Major 10 is called a part of the city, interestingly, because it is built together with the city. It's also a special story, settlement structure. So, in Major 18, the water supply will be solved by the fact that the Great Plain Water will practically build a new spinal cord, and this will certainly cause some problems, then the sewage issue, but we will try to address this issue, and the Great Plain Water will be the service provider. External majors have water supply: there is no drinking water supply there, I would like to say water supply from the various drilled wells. [[16.50]] I don't think anyone's willing to build a whole drinking water network there. There, drinking water needs to be solved just as it is now resolved that people drink mineral water or bottled water. I would add that they still drink it in a significant part today, not wired water, because there is no plumbing network 6-8-10 kilometers away from the city. There's a drilled well, but it's not tested for drinking water. That's why these are extra burdens. And it is also a problem that, unfortunately, fewer and fewer people live in these majors. It's a pretty serious problem, but we've got to figure this out. How will the inland roads be managed? Congressman asked how they'd be treated and who would mess up the snow. Well, it is a typical example of Mezőhegyes that almost all such public tasks have been carried out by the stud farm. It's been high for 232 years. They'll get everything done with it. This is a good sense of not a merger, but a formed unity that is inseparable from the stud economy and the city. In this respect, it is certain that certain steps must be taken in line with today's times. I'm sure the council will be on its feet someday. It is not a question for me to cooperate, but the tasks must be separated bit by bit, what is the public mission, what is the service, what is the task. I am not convinced that in the long run snow is to be pushed off the road by the farmhouse's machines, because where there are no studs, snow is pushed off the road, and they may even be able to save and protect the bench. Another question has been raised about the land to which you referred, Mr President. Otherwise, it's a small 400 acres. At the time, during the compensation law, all workers in the state farms were given 20 golden crowns of land. This land was then theoretically measured in accordance with the Compensation Act, but then it was not measured there and it was not issued. This is still a story under trial to this day. We're not counting on that right now, but I think we're gonna close this up soon. When the Hungarian state takes over the economy, we can also close this litigation issue. Another question concerned the date of receipt. On 1 January, we want the entire vertique to function as a new company. Prior to that, the management of the economy, its supervisory board and the board of directors will soon stand up, so all the conditions will be met, as the preparations for the following year will also have to be considered, and negotiations on certain production contracts and orders will have to start, because I do not want the various service providers to take advantage of the situation that has to be done quickly because of constraints and time constraints. I think we are doing well in this regard. You also asked, Mr President, what compensation amount and how it will be entered. We have also considered this, and the amendment will be tabled today. When the law was put forward, it was not fully crystallized yet, but after the proper calculations it will be included in the amendment. So it is also that for those who have already bid and have been auctioned at land but have not yet been in possession, their costs will be reimbursed per property, and for those who have entered into a lease, and this lease will be terminated, a uniform value has been set out in the amendment, in the law. That's what we've been thinking. I trust that the settlement of material issues will resolve this situation very quickly, in which I ask for your cooperation as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó - sorry, Mr Szabolcs Szabó. That's what happens when you call your cousin.
u2016-05-25-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. Indeed, it is as he said, that Mezőhegyes and the economy live in a kind of symbiosis, resulting in the oddities of water supply and the road. The special thing about road maintenance is that they are actually operating roads, in this sense they have a slightly different legal status than a normal road. If this is to be handed over to the municipality or to the road operator, it will obviously also have to be redesigned. I thought I would ask the most interesting question in a separate two-minute dramaturgy: how do you think the private company's shares will somehow be transferred to state property, and how much will it cost? So what's the point of the construction? We didn't get that from the law package. Thank you.
u2016-05-25-114	Thank you very much. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the answers. It was surprising that we would get answers during the debate, not only at the end of the debate, when there was no way to react. Thank you very much for that. On February 17th, I had a residential forum in Mezőhegyes, which we called for precisely because there was a great deal of uncertainty at the time around the stud estates. In fact, that's still true to this day. I'm only bringing this here because the biggest problem with this story was that both the municipality and the people living in the settlement, most of all the workers, didn't get any information. They were in a state of uncertainty that caused a lot of trouble. This, however, not only created a problem for them, but also created an opportunity for Ferenc Gyurcsány to perform on the stage and try to raise himself as a positive hero in a story whose basic problem, its privatisation, had to be suffered by the farmers in the period of his or the socialist governments that preceded him. In this way, they made a fool of themselves by maintaining this insecurity of existence around the stud estates. The additional costs that this will entail, and the fact that we can see some amendments to this, I am pleased, but it would have been good for us to be able to read this before the parliamentary debate, because this would have been an important part of the law, and then we could have spoken to it in substance. The former squandering, the costs of the privatization that has been badly carried out, could perhaps also be imposed on former socialist politicians, and this privatisation, which the Fidesz government has carried out, could also result in additional costs, either by Minister Fazekas or by Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State for the Lands, because it is their responsibility to make up for it in such a form of public money. My last question would be where György Simonka is. Thank you.
u2016-05-25-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sándor Farkas is next for two minutes.
u2016-05-25-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a brief answer to my fellow Member, Szabolcs Szabó. We imagine that, at the same time as adopting the law, we will assign a rating company that will completely objectively scan the company, look at the papers, look at the inventory, if I may put it that way. Hopefully, a sum will be set up. We compare this with the company's shares in the company's register, and the Hungarian government is expected to make a business offer for this. I can't tell you more than that because I don't know exactly what's in the books, I haven't seen it. An outside company will review the whole thing; I think it's the purest story. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Nándor Csepreghy if he has anything to say as a closing point. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17.00]]
u2016-05-25-119	In short, Mr President, not to abuse patience, because in this case, Mr President has also represented the government as an acting administrator. Minister Lazarus also visited Mezőhegyes personally on the matter, so I do not want to break the consensus of the all-party in this respect with a political closing. So thank you very much, that's all I wanted to say.
u2016-05-25-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. Since the next item concerns Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask him if he would like a few minutes' break, as there are human needs to resolve the pressing need, which sometimes need to be met, and I do not want to be the barrier to this. [[For signal:]] No, then we can move on to the next item on the agenda. The general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on State officials of 2016 will follow. The government referral is T/10723. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that the title of the bill does not include the serial number of the Act on State Officials, given that the law was adopted on the day of the Parliament's meeting yesterday, but has not yet been published mutatis mutandis, so it has not yet had a serial number. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-25-121	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you so much for the opportunity. After the government took office in 2010, it took a number of measures to reform and renew the system of organisation of the public administration, including the territorial administration. He started this on 1 January 2011, following a two-decade disintegration process, creating the metropolitan and county government offices, and then on 1 January 2013 the district offices. As of 1 April 2015, the restructuring of the organisational and operational system of government agencies was completed in order to make them more efficient. To date, government measures have aimed at both cost-effective and rational functioning of government agencies and at reducing the bureaucratic burden on citizens by simplifying administrative procedures. The reform of administration is an integral part of the changes affecting the personnel of the territorial administration, in order to enable the State to provide workers in the territorial administration with a decent living, in proportion to the tasks and responsibilities they carry out and to the officials' office. Quantifying this means an average increase of 30 per cent in the salaries of state officials, thus continuing the government's wage-raising programme in different areas of the public sector, as is already seen in terms of education, health and law enforcement. To this end, the Parliament adopted the Act on State Officials on 24 May 2016. Honourable Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, By adopting the Act on State Officials by Parliament and by announcing it by the President of the Republic, the government's objective is to establish a system of salaries, which includes professional qualifications, experience and performance in the framework of the state of modern service, and which increases the prestige and recognition of administrative work. The Law on State Officials will be introduced first from 1 July 2016 at 197 district offices of government offices, at offices that are now closest to citizens as the first level of public administration and whose employees bear the main burden of administrative reform and reduction of bureaucracy. Clearly, the most serious customer satisfaction must be achieved at the points at which most customer meeting points are available. This bill contains a technical amendment to the law on public service relations necessary for the entry into force of the Law on State Officials. With the adoption of the Law on State Officials, it introduces a new state service relationship and associated concepts in the laws concerned. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the light of the entry into force of the Law on State Officials, a total of 79 laws, including 12 fundamental laws, need to be covered by technical amendments in order to transfer state officials, state administrators and the new public service relationship to all laws in which only government officials, civil servants, public service administrators and government servants were previously named. In addition, the administrative studies and government studies referred to in the Law on State Officials in the relevant laws have been translated into professional qualifications. With the introduction of a new public service relationship, the bill does not change the logical order established earlier, it merely changes the relevant laws on a technical basis. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, although the current government must primarily serve citizens in contact with public authorities, it is also responsible for those who operate the machine of the state, i.e. those who sit on the internal side of the government windows. One of the proofs of this appreciation is the current bill, so we ask the Parliament to give its support to this bill in several respects. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-25-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the actions taken since 2010 to renew the administrative system was to restore citizen confidence in the State. This was the purpose of the development and implementation of certain elements of the Zoltán Magyary public administration development programme and the establishment of a system of government offices and districts creating a direct link between the state and its citizens. Thanks to the new forms of organisation, the county level of public administration could be revived, with the result that citizens and business operators are now able to handle most of the issues in the immediate vicinity of their residence. With the establishment of the metropolitan and county government offices on 1 January 2011, the first phase of the organizational integration of the regional government was completed, 17 independent, sector-specifically defocused bodies were placed in the organisation of the metropolitan and county government offices as specialised administrative bodies. The district system has also been renewed with a view to ensuring the consistency of the administrative territorial units and the establishment of a civil administration. On 1 January 2013, 175 district offices and 23 metropolitan district offices were set up. The districts are the lowest level of territorial and organisational units of the State's organisation, which provide administrative activities and services in proximity to citizens. In 2013-14, government windows with document office functions were established at some 73 locations on the basis of the document offices, and the number of cases that could be dealt with increased from the initial 29 to 256. The government window program has, of course, continued since then. In my own constituency, there are two town districts, Aszod and Gödöllő. Six days ago, we handed over the Aszód government window, and I think everyone's satisfaction, and in a few days the Gödöllő government window will be handed over. Thanks to IT developments, this number of 256 quoted from 2014 has now increased to over a thousand, so IT has almost tripled. And we are very pleased that the draft budget for 2017 provides sufficient resources for the development of information technology to continue the government window programme. In addition to the continuous improvement of the system and processes of the administration, the government has also recognised the importance of ensuring proper motivations for public servants due to increasing pressures, as the State Secretary mentioned, by using the word "Hungary" programme to restore the integrity of performance. [[17.10]] To this end, just this week the Parliament adopted the bill on state officials tabled by the government, which also created the institution of state service and created the possibility of a 30-50 percent wage increase for state officials. By adopting the Act on State Officials by Parliament and announcing it by the President of the Republic, the government's main objective is to create the prestige of administrative work for officials of the regional administration within the framework of the modern, service state, respecting professional qualifications and experience as well as performance, by establishing a new system of vocations and associated institutions. We are convinced that the realisation of cultural change will at the same time create the prestige of administrative work. If citizens can use administrative services of the same quality, speed and efficiency in rural small towns as in large cities and capitals, it will contribute to the growth of the rural population reserve. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the left-wing parties in the vote on Tuesday did not support this bill, they said no to the wage increase, thus saying no to the appreciation of state officials. In the final vote on the bill before us, they could somewhat remedy their error, in particular in the light of the fact that there are a number of fundamental provisions in the motion, so it might be necessary to have their vote. Unfortunately, however, the socialists did not take part in today's five-party consultation, showing the lack of appreciation for the people in the service of the public. It is therefore very important that the former supporters of the Law on State Officials continue to have a consistent attitude on this occasion and do not create, or create any legal uncertainty with the possible rejection of the amendment of the law. In view of the entry into force of the Law on State Officials, it is also necessary to amend, by adopting this bill, the laws which contain other provisions relating to public service law. The introduction of the State official as a concept requires a number of amendments to law, but, for legislative and legal certainty purposes, the somma amendment is not appropriate, and the Government has therefore prepared a proposal for a separate amendment to each law. The bill before us therefore provides for a technical amendment of the law on public service relations and transfers the legal institution of that new State service into the laws concerned. The bill thus contains, as also mentioned by the Secretary of State, amendments to 79 laws, of which 12 are fundamental norms. I believe that it is as important in the public service relationship as it is in the case of other public service-related posts, that conflict of interest rules apply, that the persons concerned become members of the pension and health insurance system resulting from the legal relationship, and that the public officials can enforce benefits. Just to mention a few examples: for example, a state official should not be a municipal representative, a member of an electoral committee, should be included in the reliability check as laid down in the law of the police, his income should be subject to the law of the State, but at the same time his time in the administration should also be counted as a period of service for social security pensions. As I have already said, these are only technical amendments, but their significance is not at all underestimated and negligible. The T/10723. The legislative proposal submitted to the European Parliament may be another step in the process of creating a State of supply. In order to enable the Hungarian administration to carry out its task organised, professionally, professionally prepared and respected, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I agree with the positive things said here by the lead speaker of Fidesz, but I will not let the criticism go, and in the following, I will also express our opposition to this. It is worth listing these 12 fundamental laws, mentioned from 79 to me; they are all very important laws: the law on police - I do not say its number - the law on national security services, the law on media services, mass communication, the law on information self-determination, freedom of information, the law on defence, the law on Hungarian Defence, measures that may be introduced in special legal order, the law on the legal status and remuneration of judges, the law on the status of chief prosecutors, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the law on the careers of prosecutors, the law on local governments of Hungary, the law on the National Assembly, the law on the legal status and remuneration of judges, the law on the legal status of public prosecutors and other public prosecutors, the law on electoral procedures. The Secretary of State mentioned that after the adoption of the bill, the salaries and income of public administration workers will increase by 30 percent. However, I would like to say here that this applies to a certain layer, but I think, as promised by Mr Lazarus here in the public sector, in the public administration, it is safe to say that a lot of people will end up on the street or in a job that does not give them these conditions. It's a nice term to increase it by 30 percent, but they're going to increase it to those who work there, or they're going to stay at government offices or government windows. I would also like to make some substantive comments. With regard to the amendment of the NAV Act, the bill is set at 80. §2 of the Act contains an amendment allowing the tax authority, in the future, to initiate the establishment of a professional service, government service, public service, public service relationship or employment with a staff member of such organisations of special importance for law enforcement in order to carry out its duties in the field of the prevention, law enforcement, detection and investigation of confidential information which is not subject to a judicial authorisation. The amendment will extend the scope of the public service relationship with which the NAV may enter into separate employment relationship agreements in order to achieve its objectives. The bill contains a provision in Chapter 76 under which the budgetary bodies under the government's management or supervision are obliged to pay their expenditure savings resulting from the termination of the relationship between civil servants, government servants or those in service, other than savings already incorporated in the 2016 budget, to the account at the Hungarian Treasury, which is designated as the deposit of savings relating to blocked posts, for the benefit of the central budget. With this step, the state will also take away from public institutions the money that would remain as a result of retirement. [[17.20]] Thus, it is also possible that funds originally intended for human resources will be used in a completely different area, such as road construction, the self-construction of EU funds or the reconstruction of the Buda Castle. Of the 79 laws affected by the amendment, there are many cases where it is currently opened within the framework of other legislative proposals before Parliament. These include the 1991 IV on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits. Act XXXIII of the year XXX on the status of civil servants Act and Act CXXII of 2004 on the Premium Years Programme and Special Employment Staff Law. There is one among the laws affected by the bill, which has been opened at least in two other legislative proposals at once. This is the 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training. Act T/10729, which was opened on the one hand, concerning the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws. T/10377 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 Law No. 1. The legislative technique of the government increases legal uncertainty in Hungary in a specific way. It is difficult, in exceptional cases, for practitioners to monitor when and when changes are to take place in respect of the law. Congressman Vécsey has already mentioned that the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction voted against during the trial of the Act on State Officials. I can now report to Parliament that the MSZP fraction will remain on this amendment. That's why I'm here. The legislation at that time has violated the interests and rights of workers in several places and significantly. Many of the elements still protecting workers have been removed, which were intended to ensure professional and impartial work. At the same time, in particular, it also contains elements in the area of wages that, at best, result in wage stagnation, as opposed to previous government promises that all public service workers will have a significant increase in their salaries. Accepted Avatv. Law abolishes, inter alia, the concept of the current salary base and the 17 levels of payment. Under the new rules, there will be only four steps in the future. Of the wages linked to these grades, the state guarantees the lowest level of the grade in question, but progress will depend significantly on the opinion of the state official in charge. The Crossword. During its development and adoption, the government did not substantially agree with sectoral trade unions, and during the negotiation of the bill, the MSZP amendments containing trade union comments were rejected and voted out. Among other things, a legislative salad package containing transitional provisions leading to a fundamentally flawed government concept for workers through several laws cannot be supported. In addition to the fact that the current bill contains basically technical amendments and introduces the concept of State official through the laws described earlier, it also contains a number of rules which are favourable to workers, which would not be appropriate to deprive those concerned. For example, the provision that if the current proposals were rejected, public officials would not be eligible for social security benefits or would not be eligible for private pensions. Once again, power uses a technique that makes it difficult to reject a bill based on a fundamentally flawed concept, as it also contains elements that have a positive impact on the workforce concerned. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2016-05-25-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speech by Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-127	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10723 on the amendment of certain laws relating to public officials In total, the bill No 79 amends 79 laws, including 12 fundamental laws, which are necessary in the light of the entry into force of the Act on State Officials adopted yesterday, i.e. on 24 May 2016. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat the speeches by the State Secretary-General and Fidesz-CEO before me, but I would like to stress in any case that the bill includes as a guiding principle the concepts of professional qualifications and government studies in the laws concerning the public service and government service relationship in which only government officials, government administrators, civil servants, public service administrators or government services have previously been named, as well as administrative examinations and administrative examinations. A new state official status has been introduced by the Law on State Officials. With the introduction of a new legal relationship, the bill does not wish to change the legal order established earlier, but merely amends the relevant laws in a technical way. Ladies and Gentlemen, By adopting the Act on State Officials by Parliament and the forthcoming announcement by the President of the Republic, the government's main objective is to establish, together with the implementation of the cultural change, a new system of professional qualifications and experience for regional administration officials, and a system of performance-appreciated officials. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats hope that this change of culture will take place as soon as possible, so in the short term Hungarian citizens will feel the benefits of this and the prestige of administrative work will be restored. Please support T/10723 on the amendment of certain laws relating to state officials The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports bill No. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-25-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-25-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I have to admit, it's a little strange to talk about this proposal, because it's actually all about transferring state officials to various laws. Obviously, the delicateness of the subject, if it is possible to talk about sensitiveness, is that there is also a need to amend 12 fundamental laws, even if it is technical. [[17 .30]] I would not like to make such far-reaching outlooks as our fellow Member from the MSZP. We were at the meeting today, so I'm prepared. I got a big chart of it. [[He's showing it to me.]] What these laws are. Anyone who goes to the conciliation can obviously gain this much benefit by not having to search it out, but here we have received this in relation to 12 laws, and the essence of the amendment, which is mostly technical, and I must say, technical in the sense that state officials are being installed and put into practice. Well, we voted in favour of the proposal on Tuesday, this week, so yesterday, in which we were talking about wage increases, and some other points in which we had discussions, and we are likely to have, for example, the imposition of the various new training requirements, and the form in which the legal exam, let us say, the administrative exam, could replace it, and we have been able to adopt the law in such a way that it does not at the moment, although I have expressed my hope at the conciliation, and it is also on the agenda for a long time that if the whole system or the system of examination is reviewed, I say, we have been hearing this for several years now that it will be reformed at some level - we hope that, in any case, the errors that remain in the proposal will be corrected in the future. I know that this does not seem to be so important, because it is the increase in wages that will most likely affect people and public officials, of course, because it is equally important to them what extra training needs to be done. I know that we are talking about the middle management level or the level above it - I add that the highest level does not have to be, so at the committee meeting, when this was the case, I asked whether these trainings should be carried out at ministerial, prime minister and secretary of state level, obviously we have received a negative answer - but the point is that our other problem was that it was only the National University of Public Service that would be entitled to do so, or it was assigned, if it was allowed to be called so, with franchise training. We do not know how much these will cost, we can assume that the state and the various employers in the state will pay for this, but it would have been very good to think about this system a little more carefully - but I do not want to reopen this debate. As a matter of fact, what I still have to say is that some of our amendments, although I consider them to be medium-sized, are indeed amendments to this law, namely the previous law, which we are talking about in fact the transfer of which we are talking in some form, so that some of our amendments have been accepted, and there have also been some clarification proposals that have been fought out before the Legislative Committee, and of course we were pleased to do so, but that dilemma is still there, and that is still a question to be decided whether these transfers will be decided by the Jobbik faction - so, in this form, we support them. I have to say that I do not see any dangers in it, but we would have expected more gestures than the basic proposal that has now been adopted, but I would add that our vote was motivated most by the increase in wages, and that we did not want to go into a war of political taste, which we could have heard from my fellow Members here, in which the left was accused of one, not only of voting against the increase in wages, because this is obviously even factual, because although it was a big package, but also of the increase in wages, they actually went to the point where those who did not vote 'yes' did not actually respect state officials. This is a bit of a hobbyism, I think, and it is likely that similar ideas could be born in the Rogán-propagandaministium, so we would not have liked it, and we also said that although this raise is only for a certain circle, for public officials, so let us say, neither for ministerial workers nor for municipal workers, but we also have a principle that, although we would always like to expand the beneficiary circle, if, of course, for them, state officials - so let's speak quite openly now, for example, for people working in district offices - this means an increase in wages, then we will not reject it just because there are similar problems elsewhere. I would like to add, and I also said this at the conciliation, and let us say that we would like to do so, and we have been promised several times to start with the lowest-paid workers, so those who take 70-80 thousand forints home, obviously not so much as a 30-50 percent increase for them, obviously, but in the total amounts paid, as we say, we are talking about the case of more serious officials, for whom a 20 percent increase may take more money than if they pay more workers on the front line on a daily basis. So together we are pleased that the conciliation took place, although there was not much to agree on, we considered this process rather as a gesture in the direction of two thirds, but we are there at all negotiations, we are leaving, so we are not following the opposition lines that reject the conciliation. Of course, we have been able to express other thoughts here, and we trust him once again, confirming that those who receive this increase in salaries will obviously feel the appreciation in this circle, and, as I said, Jobbik has also voted for this, and we hope that, by the way, ministerial workers or even those working in the local government will turn up, that, if not, before the elections in 2018 and 19 I will think about it as the local government. But I have to say, I don't even care why or how, just help these people. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-131	Thank you very much, Mr President, and welcome to the chair; I didn't notice your gesture earlier, and I respectfully welcome you for coming to work. In a one-night debate, Mr. Secretary of State, why does the MSZP think that one million civil servants are all Fidesz voters, but they will make sure that they are - I haven't been able to get this recording back yet, but I think it must be done after that. That, after the establishment of the government officials' faculty, which is a serious tool of power building, which was included in the fact that the events of 23 February, as they pushed away the MSZP petitioner from the National University of Public Service, show the attitude of the rector to democracy; so this is a hard piece of power building in Machiavelli's sense, and they even drew from The Prince that if you want to do something big, then put something good in front of him, so they press wage development into the front of this whole package. I am therefore very pleased that civil servants are finally getting wage development. I find it very false, what state officials do by distinguishing civil servants at all, and for those working at the government windows, I have a special appreciation for it, because their working conditions are far from guaranteed. See how many lines, how many crowds you have to deal with at a government window. I need more help for those working at the wheel window. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-25-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[Nándor Csepreghy rises to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-133	Mr President, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for your thoughts. Allow me to respond in order of the speeches, first to Mr Horváth. I do not understand that whatever bill comes before this House, the MSZP always starts by saying that instead of talking about content issues, it is challenging how many laws Parliament has to amend and how little time it has to do this work, and how much change it will make. [[17.40]] Congressman, you've been sent here by voters to do this job. So you keep criticizing that, yes, you have to touch the law: that's why you get paid. Just like they're sitting in a government window to take care of citizens' affairs. The other question you've been pressuring is that those who work for the state are affected by the wage increase. Who else would it touch? That is right, it will affect those who act and act in the affairs of the citizens and Hungarian businesses representing the state. Of course, it should not affect those who are working for the State today, but will work for the market later. And allow me, if Mr President allows me, to deviate from the issue in so far as I am concerned, that there is indeed a step in the reduction of state bureaucracy that is about the decline in the number of states. When can a state do that? At a time when there is a stable economic growth; when it can shift a large part of the mass of people working in the public sector today to the market sector. Because what are we talking about right now? We are talking today about 4.2 million employees in Hungary, of which 1.1 million people are working for the state, and if we take seriously the statements that you are making here in Parliament, that the sustainable development of the Hungarian state, the sustainable growth of the Hungarian economy, depends also on public competitiveness, it is based on three basic factors: on the one hand, on the size of the state, the institutional system and the human capacity issues in it; on how fast the state works, it is linked to the ideas of cutting red tape for simplifying or reducing legislation; and on the other hand, how cheap the state is. Now, these are all related to these human issues. Stepping up the introductions will look like a first-round wage increase for the district office workers, and then for government officials. Again, I cannot understand why it is a problem for you to have a performance-related wage within the public sphere. Those who represent the state, whether they work in district offices, government offices or even those who work in the local government world in the longer term, why is it a problem if the work of these people is carried out in proportion to performance, and the satisfaction of the service providers of the activities they carry out, so citizens' satisfaction determines the pay they receive, and this is also included in the pay criteria? And yes, the leaders are here to give these leaders directions to the day-to-day work, and these leaders take responsibility for the work that the subordinates do. And if the state wants to do these people on a performance basis, it is necessary to rely on information from the leaders and on feedback from citizens on how the state works. Of course, it sounds good, but once again, what the Member says about the consultations is not true. There have been four meetings between the competent State Secretary and the public service advocacy organisations, and the bill itself has been given a special opinion by the lawyers of the trade unions. So the statement is not true. Congressman Staudt's proposal is absolutely integrated into government plans. In the first round, the wage arrangements for workers at lower administrative levels begin, and then we go up. And the principle is that in its proportions, managers get the least and the lowest possible level of wage management. I believe that, if the other steps of bureaucracy reduction are implemented, as the 2017 budget has a HUF 1 000 billion domestic development resource, the financial opportunity and scope will also be created to ensure that the wage arrangements for those working in the local government and those working in other public circles are carried out. The government is also aware that this is a step further, the wage arrangement of employees in this area of public administration following health and law enforcement bodies. It's still not the full circle. Congressman Józsa, the statement does not need to be sought; it was said, if I remember correctly, in the debate he said: [[Dr. István Józsa: Which debate?]] that we are wrong to think that any public or public professional or co-worker is fidesz. And I said to you, "Yes, it isn't, but we're working on it." I trust him. [[Dr. István Józsa: What debate were you in?]] That this measure will attract more people into our electoral camp and leave one less in yours. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-134	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Submission of amendments [[Dr. István Józsa: Shouldn't we achieve a neutral administration?]] Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Mr Péter Harrach and Mr Imre Vejkey, Mr KDNP, Members T/10721. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-25-135	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company According to the provisions of law MFB as the development bank of the Hungarian State, its main task is to support the government's medium- and long-term economic strategy in order to achieve the economic policy objectives of the Hungarian State, in particular through direct or indirect MFB-owned companies, as well as through organisations in which MFB exercises ownership rights on behalf of the State. These are the three basic factors that depend on the future of our country. More to the point, the MFB intends to help the Hungarian economy in a way that will ensure dynamic growth without significant external resources. On the other hand, the MFB intends to help increase employment in Hungary, to increase wages continuously and permanently, but also to increase more, namely that Hungarian people should not only have a living job, but also a job that ensures their professional development. Thirdly, the MFB aims to indirectly promote further improvements in the living conditions of families in Hungary and to respond to demographic challenges in the longer term. Ladies and Gentlemen, The above facts also include the fact that the role of MFB has changed significantly over the past period, since it has become an active economic development centre from the former specialised credit institution to today. Nothing proves that more than the fact that the MFB's loan portfolio has increased by nearly HUF 100 billion in the last year. In order to meet the economic policy expectations of the civilian government, a partial rethink of the MFB group's operational model was required, resulting in the removal of lending, capital investment and EU resource management competences and duplication in 2015 in new groups. The process continued in 2016 with the preparation of the integration of group processes and continues, resulting in the MFB creating uniform and centralised functions instead of holding-like structures, taking advantage of the operational synergies involved. This is why it was necessary to amend the MFB Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear from all this that the MFB is a public-interest institution and that such an institution is also a direct or indirect owned entity of the MFB, or companies in which the MFB exercises ownership rights on behalf of the Hungarian State. [[17.50]] In order to ensure a high quality, transparent and cost-effective performance of these public-interest tasks and public-interest activities, and in the interests of sound management of public assets, it is necessary to coordinate and manage the operation and management of individual companies and to establish, strengthen and improve control over them, to improve efficiency and the quality of services. Ladies and Gentlemen, Based on all these facts, the MFB Act 2. For companies as defined in point (m) of Section MFB Zrt., the fact that MFB Zrt. provide financial and accounting services, control services, asset management services, IT services, human resources management services, organizational and process regulation services, procurement services and ultimately operational services with exclusive rights. The amendment of the law contributes to the creation of a strong, coordinated group of companies, capable of integrating development policy objectives, tasks and effective solutions beyond the professional care of basic activities. Ladies and Gentlemen, Last but not least, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that MFB Zrt. The financing of church legal persons is added to the section setting out its tasks, given that the provisions in force do not make this possible at present unduly. Please support T/10721 on the amendment of the MFB Act. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute the Secretary of State, Lászlóné Németh. I ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-05-25-137	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to say a few thoughts and phrases for what we have just heard from Mr Vejkey, Congressman. Therefore, in 2014 the MFB's tasks were significantly altered, mainly by the fact that its role as trustee had been reduced and that its activities focused on active financial and economic development activities. One of its very important new tasks was to build and actively participate in the distribution of the EU's reimbursable resources, in which, by the way, one of the MFB points was handed over yesterday, where applicants are now able to use and apply for EU loans with zero interest. So, in the summer of 2014, in line with the new tasks, a comprehensive internal modernisation and rationalisation programme was launched, with the most important role being given to group operation. As a basis, we thought that we were not going to modify the existing medium-term plans that were adopted earlier, but to develop and develop a completely new strategy, which is partly long-term, and partly also to induce a change in the organisational model. At the same time, in the spring of 2014, we also used the help and support of a large international consulting firm, a strategic material of roughly 500 pages, which was submitted to the government and accepted by the government. Here, the basis was to keep the good practices in the MFB, to complement them with international financial institution standards, combining the two elements, to create a model that is already in line with the role that the government intends to play for the MFB group, so that it can become a leading economic development institution. Two years ago, so when the strategy was completed, it was adopted, the work started, and I think that the individual motion before you will greatly help us to continue this work smoothly. We have already taken a lot of steps so far, so this centralisation programme is under way, and we think that we have yet to have more opportunities to help the group work together more effectively and in a more efficient way. Here we can talk about product development, sales, support-control functions, risk management, controlling, procurement, which the MFB can sell and provide to its subsidiaries as a central and service. At the moment, these activities are not necessarily carried out in a uniform and/or non-coordinated manner by subsidiaries. If we can eliminate duplication, if, for example, we are now adopted the motion that will help us with these activities, then we can eliminate the duplication of functions, and I think that we believe that this will also significantly improve the reaction capacity of the group. It also includes the fact that rationalisation obviously has very serious financial implications, and I also think that we need to strive not only for budgetary institutions but also for public companies. Here, the MFB can lead by example, the results of the steps taken so far are already quite good. I can tell you, this was already published in press releases last week that the operating costs of the MFB group decreased by HUF 3 billion last year, and the consolidated IFRS-taxed result of the bank increased to HUF 18.4 billion. So we believe that this proposal fits our goals and helps us achieve them, and we therefore support the legislative amendment to a large extent. As regards the proposal, the other point of the amendment proposal, so that they can finance church legal persons in the future, whether they can participate in credit or equity-financing MFB programmes, we also support it from the government, because I believe that in these cases the Development Bank should examine whether its task is to ensure that the funding provided is meaningful, for good purposes, whether the financing and/or capital investment will pay off or contribute to strengthening the Hungarian economy. So on this basis, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-25-138	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-25-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to advance my great appreciation for my learned colleague, Dr. Imre Vejkey, and to mention that, as a co-author, you and Péter Harrach have probably drawn up this extremely meaningful, forward-looking bill, and far-reaching the strategic goals of the MFB. It is so good that I would like to join them as a rapporteur if such a solution could be exercised, of course looking at the various details in depth, and I would particularly like to know where to apply for this zero-percent EU loan, because I think there will be great interest when this opportunity is opened. [[18.00]] So we agree that you didn't write this. As the Secretary of State said, two years ago, it was a serious study, say, the name of the company who prepared it didn't say, but I'm sure in the summary you'll hear something about who did this strong professional study. The essence of the balance sheet data is: it was a cost reduction, it was a slimming down, and it was an increase in efficiency. At least, the figures show what the Secretary of State said that the numerical results of this are already visible in the last year's balance sheet. At the same time, Mrs Secretary of State mentioned her essence with an emphatic structure that it was a centralisation programme. This expresses the economic philosophy of which there has been quite a lot of debate since the change of regime, how much the state should be, how active the economy should be. After all, this hundred billion-dollar credit is not so much at national level, but if you look at the projects that this 100 billion - 100 billion-dollar loan has been made in your contribution - then the Development Bank operates or intends to operate as an active economic centre. So it is certain that if the main sources of development of the Hungarian economy are the thousands of billion European Union, the Hungarian Development Bank as an active economic development centre can make a useful contribution to this as a complement. The extent to which this amendment of the law will be reflected, that such direct services will be authorised by law, that the bank will be able to exercise direct or indirect control towards the companies and in their control, will be subject to the authority of the Hungarian Development Bank and the MFB, depending on a ministerial decision, to grant credit to certain companies with exclusive right... - that is, there will no longer be an option for the company in question, the Minister - or the Minister of State Secretary's proposal - will say that you like it or not - you will certainly use financial and accounting services from the MFB, as stated in the supplement, risk management, control, asset and resource management services, I think, also a uniform IT service, which will hopefully be more modern than what is in practice now, because otherwise, what is the point of legal authorisation. Similarly, human resources management and good faith may not want to broaden the employment background of Fidelitas, but will hire real professionals, but in the spirit of centralisation, the Minister is also authorised to designate which company should use the bank's services in this respect. Similarly, with regard to organisational and process regulation services, procurement, Purchasing, which is a particularly sensitive area, and there is really a lot of savings in a group acquisition, not to mention operation. Therefore, it is certain that the rewriting of the MFB law in this direction will provide significant opportunities for centralisation, and hopefully this will also make the management opportunities more efficient. Some of our comments relate to the last sentence of the author, which, in our view, requires an extension of the preamble. This is the part that the Hungarian Development Bank - and perhaps the KDNP representatives' presentation - will be able to lend to church legal persons in the future, and can also provide services to church legal persons. In our view, this is now in conflict with the preamble to the MFB Act, as it is said that the Hungarian Development Bank is planning to finance and credit organisations carrying out an investment or development of national importance, which is worth supporting through state resources. Obviously, another case is the assessment of the social work of church legal persons. It's a separate perception, the perception of its social usefulness is also a separate story. However, the activity of national economic importance under the preamble does not appear to be detectable at present. In addition, this extension of creditability occurs at a time when the government wants to move, when, in the EU's view, Eximbank is essentially financing public finance tasks due to its credit operations, and also tasks that should be assigned to the general government deficit... -. I was about to say drift, but the whole point of the process is the same. However, this would affect the size of the sum of government debt and it might look different. So this is a relatively delicate area, in our opinion. The authors argue in the explanatory statement that the companies concerned provide important services and that the transparent and efficient management of public assets requires a single group of companies. This is, if it is accompanied by sufficient transparency and prudence, unlike the attempt to submit legislation to national bank foundations, to make it a secret, and that public money is not public money... - here there is public money, the Bank of Development is the bank of the state, so the proper transparency must be ensured here. However, it is quite difficult to talk about transparency on the basis of some specific experience when the legislation in vain determines the scope of activities which the Development Bank, Minister János Lázár, may at any time decide to allow ownership, acquisition and financing in respect of other companies. Therefore, we do not see transparent operation guaranteed. It's hard, it seems a little excessive to mention that at all. In the money market, it is not uncommon to build a stronger network of relationships within a group of companies. Therefore, this is a tendency to create a stronger network of connected groups of companies, particularly groups of companies linked to the ownership sector. In our opinion, the Hungarian Development Bank could solve this without any particular difficulties, essentially without the framework of this amendment. [[18.10]] Only by relying on ownership rights would you be able to strengthen this cooperation network. That is why there are professional opinions that this is more about the fact that Minister János Lázár wants to be authorised to control these decisions manually, by subtracting the decision-making powers of the company's managers, so that he can appoint these sensitive services from the MFB, so that he can use them in the designated way. He wants to decide for himself how to make these contracts. In this sense, corporate responsibility is difficult to enforce. In view of all of this, there are still elements of the proposal that can be assessed professionally and decisively. The oral amendment was very honest that it was a manifestation of a centralisation programme. The extent to which this centralisation represents a more effective operation under market conditions, there are discussions about it. And the fact that the principle of the separate functioning of the state and the church, which in Europe, let us say, since the French Enlightenment, has been quite clear about the extent to which this kind of enlargement can fit, also requires judgement. In our opinion, churches receive support from the state in a way guaranteed by the law for their social activities, and receive funds. The fact that it is extended on a branch of a bank, that it can also lend to church legal persons, may affect the theoretical boundaries of the separate functioning of the state and church, so it is questionable whether it is eligible. In view of all this, I would like to congratulate Mr Vejkey on his professional work. And if these explicit business support goals, which have been said here in the expo, are favourable lending opportunities, co-financing has been awarded to EU proposals, they really do exist in reality, and not only do we experience such advantages for designated Fidesz companies, but also, let's say, more widely, the beneficial effects of this will be reflected, then after a while we may be able to say that this amendment has been effective. Now, on the basis of the description, we do not see a full guarantee of this. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2016-05-25-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey, will be here to speak. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-25-141	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that I said what I thought was necessary as a rapporteur in the expozee, I do not wish to say any more at the moment. Then I would like to make a statement as a rapporteur. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-25-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-143	Thank you, Mr. President. As my fellow Members certainly know, Jobbik is a believer of the active and entrepreneurial state. As a result, we are fundamentally supportive of any government proposal that serves this purpose and expands opportunities in this area. What the Minister has said here - because you, as an experienced senior leader from the competition sector, have more insight into these issues than most of our fellow Members here - I think it is very important that, if you want to implement in Hungary the strategy supported by Jobbik in the banking sector, which is also supported by Jobbik, so that the Hungarian share in the banking sector is over 50 percent, and we support the Hungarian economy with various other banking and other means, then these steps must be taken, I believe, because there are several reasons for this. On the one hand, it is easier to control processes. The Minister, as I mentioned, came from the business sector into the world of politics. It is easier to manage these many companies with public interests if they have a common administrative management and control. It is also very important to mention that Jobbik has repeatedly urged that the role of Big Four, the role of the four major international audit firms in the Hungarian economy, in addition to the expansion of management tools, is, in our opinion, overgrown. When I think about the Hungarian National Bank, even the activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will be audited by American audit organisations year after year. And we do the same with a number of public companies, including companies that are otherwise protected by national security, which manage sensitive data. And if, where appropriate, an American-owned company conducts an accounting check on these, this company will certainly have sensitive information and, as has already been proven more than once, will end up with different intelligence organizations. Therefore, for this reason, even for national security reasons, although this proposal does not explicitly refer to this, it is worth considering whether Hungary should proceed on this path. I believe it will be necessary. I also think it is very important to say that it has not yet developed its practice, although this law will also provide an opportunity for public sector companies to operate on the basis of performance indicators that are typical of the competition sector. This is important because we have the 2017 budget ahead of us, and we are currently discussing it. For my part, I have also repeatedly mentioned to the government that these clear performance indicators, such as data on staff management, should appear. There is also a public organisation, and even a public company, where they show the number of people they want to work with; there are those where the law defines the number of employees, the size of the budget. It is possible to see from the contribution to the common good, or, where appropriate, if such an organisation carries out an activity, from the proceeds of fines, from the profits generated, or from which this output performance is produced by such an organisation, but it would be very important that these principles are generally reflected within the public sphere, including those applicable to economic entities. I think it is important to take the step that my fellow Member Vejkey has taken today, based on his own motion, because with these steps to centralise the administrative processes of these companies, we can move in the direction of a more transparent public administration in these areas. However, it is very important to say that it depends essentially on practical implementation, how the government will embody this in practice, whether it is in the interests of the fight against corruption, or if we are to centralise corruption. There have been ideas that could have been basically good, but practical implementation has been fairly false. In this case, it is important to pay attention to the fact that with a very strong central control, I am convinced that in each of these areas, public funds can be prevented from disappearing and that corruption can indeed be combated. It is also important to say what my fellow Member, Józsa, has already mentioned that there is an opportunity to amend the law, but I also feel that it would have been worthwhile to amend the preamble to the bill, because in this way, I believe that this bill is legally objectionable; and if it is objectionable, then I also believe that someone will do so. So this is where it should have been clarified. [[18.20]] I do not wish to propose an amendment to it because the opposition amendment proposals are typically voted off by the government side, but I respectfully ask my fellow Member Vejkey that, if possible, this bill should, in this round, before the House vote on it and adopt it, be nice to amend it in this way, because I believe that this legal concern can be clearly and surely eliminated in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company We have a bill on the amendment of the law before us. This is a very short proposal, but it also represents a change in the life of the financial institution on two points. One of them, as is already the case with enough polemia in the lead speakerial round, is that the amendment of the MFB Act will enable the funding of church legal entities to take place. This is important because they also do not miss out on development sources which are otherwise available to many other economic operators registered in Hungary. I think that Congressman Józsa is wrong to question the principle of separation between the state and the church in this amendment. It's not like that. Churches take on a wide variety of public tasks and do a lot of things that enhance identity, build a community, and sometimes do this by intervening economic enterprises. Another element of the amending proposal is that MFB Zrt. For group 1 companies, the bank is granted exclusive right to carry out the following services in a commercial manner. These include financial, accounting, control, IT, procurement, operation, human resources management services. The issue of the amendment is that in the future, the above services aimed at improving efficiency will be provided by the Hungarian Development Bank to other member companies as if they were provided to their own department. I believe that this measure contributes to the announced bureaucracy and cost reduction programme, as the centralisation project can achieve significant savings. Among other things, it will be possible to eliminate duplication in many areas. The question may arise as to the impact of the MFB on the market for these services by providing these services. In view of the fact that controlled companies typically resolve these activities by relying on internal resources and on one of the members of the listed companies, there is no distortion of the market since the granting of exclusive rights does not affect trade between EU Member States. In order to make MFB Zrt. and the transition between the group members should be smooth, and in the future the leaders and employees of the organisations will be obliged to provide each other with all the necessary data and information. Of course, MFB Zrt. the provision of services with this exclusive right will also be included in its activities. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is clear from what has been said above that the expansion of the tasks of the Hungarian Development Bank in this direction will mean even more efficient operation and greater transparency in the life of the organization and its. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-25-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Secretary of State Lászlóné Németh. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-05-25-147	Thank you very much. I'd like to reflect on a few things. Congressman asked me where this zero percent loan could be borrowed. Well, yesterday, 26 MFB points were opened, one in Kecskemét, for example. Allow me not to list all 25 of them by heart right now. By the end of the year, there will be 445 such points across the country, and in the coming days we will also issue another public procurement for the expansion of additional MFB points. So that's how many places we'd like to market it. In this context, we have also announced a framework of 44 billion, with a 15% zero-percent interest on the support of the SME's economic development programme, with a simplified loan award. All of the banks operating MFB points will deal with them on the basis of the manual issued by the Hungarian Development Bank and on the basis of a contractual model. [[Dr. István Józsa: How much is a credit limit?]] 600 million. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's nice!]] That's what I wanted to respond to. It has occurred to me what it means to develop products in one place. Here I would like to give you one example, the Garantiqa credit institution, and there is also the Hungarian Development Bank's own refinancing credit line product group, regardless of the EU. I think it will be a very important thing if Garantiqa's guarantee products for credit are developed on the same basis and on the same approach as the developers in the Development Bank say that from now on they will finance someone with a framework on such a basis. That is what we mean, for example. About what centralisation means in procurement, I think it's not worth talking about, because it's very clear to everyone. What is very important is very interesting, it was such a program that we started with, which has already produced results. In the past, he had a small business development institution with the same product scope, for example through EU funds, which had such a name, had a regional development holding company, had an MV Zrt. to touch only the largest ones. It just doesn't make sense, so you can't do that. That is why, for example, we have decided in this area. As a matter of fact, how much this gives us the possibility of manual control: here I would just like to indicate specifically that you said that it can already be done. I simply think that by setting out a declared direction, route, the question is whether it is controlled manually, I'm not sure this will ever happen, but it might be possible to take it out of the picture. It's church funding. Let me refer you back to my commercial bank experience. Yes, there are such things as financing the economic activity of churches, even commercial banks. I can't see why we shouldn't do this if they're doing this kind of activity, and it's in the development bank's product range. Maybe that's all I'd say. As regards transparency and transparency, as Mr Volner mentioned: I would like to say, we very much hope that the Hungarian Development Bank will win the title given by Transparency International for the previous years, for example by 2014, that it is one of the most transparent institutions. I'd like to keep it, and I hope it stays that way. It's always a big question of how to think about auditors. For example, in the case of an MFB group, when we go out with a bond issue, there are expectations, and even though we think that professionally at least as good Hungarian audit firms are operating, we cannot necessarily apply them. Finally, I think that the centralisation that we intend to implement in the case of HR will help to promote what Mr Volner has also said, namely, to carry out an identical performance assessment, and that the additional activities within the group will be defined in relation to each other, if the activities of each person are scored. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.30]]
u2016-05-25-148	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-149	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank the Secretary of State for the valuable additional information. I'm sure the companies will be very pleased with the opportunity to apply for zero percent credit. But if you look at this, this condition is too favourable to have only 44 billion forints available. After that, there may be footnotes in the manual that tighten this up, that it is not so easy to apply for it. By building the network of contacts within the group of companies, I wanted to point out that, among these options, the management of the MFB and the management of the companies concerned would be able to voluntarily strengthen this network on a market basis. The derogation I see in this legislative mandate is that from now on, let us say, Minister János Lázár, you and you can tell us to what extent you and you will cooperate, which will certainly reduce the business space of companies. In the spirit of centralization, this may be effective. It is impossible to see, of course, such a legislative proposal cannot be so detailed, probably the study could give examples of this, that if it takes responsibility to this extent from the managers of individual companies, let us say, a ministerial measure, then what responsibility, what interest can be added to it, so that a firm that is designated above what kind of net it should operate creatively, prudently and effectively. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-25-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the rapporteur on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-25-151	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the Prime Minister's Office, including the Hungarian Government, Fidesz, KDNP and Jobbik for their statements of support, which have been made clear. As we have heard, the MSZP is only half in favour of our presentation, and even wants to be a national, so we thank you half the time. We do not know the position of LMP; LMP did not participate in the general debate, but we trust that it will also support the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill provides for transparency and responsible management of public property by MFB Zrt. It shall grant limited exclusive rights to provide certain services aimed at improving operational efficiency as its own departments, which is the most appropriate solution in the light of public procurement and State aid rules. With regard to these companies, these services are most effectively provided by MFB Zrt., which exercises control only with the greatest transparency and the greatest rationalisation of costs. capable of stretching. Services MFB Zrt. it will have no distorting effect on the market and, due to the nature of the services, the granting of exclusive rights does not affect trade between EU Member States. The amendment also contributes to the creation of a strong, coordinated group of companies, capable of integrating and effectively solving development policy objectives, tasks, and also of financing church legal entities, in addition to the professional care of basic activities. Please support the bill amending the MFB Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-25-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát, in a five-minute time frame:, How much longer? Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr
u2016-05-25-153	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik is of the opinion that one of the potential driving sectors of the coming decades could be the sum of the so-called sharing economic sectors. Obviously, we mean farming models and systems of a Community nature where, where appropriate, non-exclusive companies and service providers can enter a model that connects with the citizen, the consumer, but, where appropriate, by strengthening network links between them, by using modern technical tools, by saving costs, by making practical progress and by developing new economic sectors, if this is done in a regulated way by a nation state giving itself something. At the same time, we can see that the current government of Hungary completely misinterprets the situation that is inherent in the possibilities of spilling out otherwise modern economic assets. Already once, with the quasi banning of online gambling sites, it has been a huge failure, since ever since, with the use of a server and two additional clicks, virtually anyone can access the affected sites. And we have a somewhat similar feeling in the case of Uber, where, in my opinion, Jobbik represents a professional and calm position which, on the one hand, does not aim at banning the Internet, but does not support the spread of tax fraud and tax avoidance mechanisms. Thus, Jobbik takes the view that apps and internet applications cannot be banned between these two extremes. CHAPTER XXI It is simply a childish idea in the first century that any long-term and lasting restriction can be achieved. At the same time, we can see that the activities of economic sectors or groups of companies that enter our country on the basis of their tax optimization technology and strategy are at least as unacceptable as they are, after pumping out their profits through a well-organized international business network in Bermuda or other tax havens, essentially negligating the payment of profits, avoiding public burdens. And although what they are doing may seem legal, Jobbik believes that this internationally organised network cannot be allowed into the entire Hungarian national economy without consequences. To sum up, Jobbik does not want to ban Internet apps, but does not allow the reins to be thrown between horses. We therefore do not contribute to the further spread of these tax avoidance mechanisms in other economic sectors. Therefore, Jobbik's proposal for a resolution submitted this week is precisely aimed at allowing the government to sit at a negotiating table with the parties instead of the North Korean type bans. From the Baltic States, we can also set a positive example for such a sit-down, or even from Jobbik's practice, as regards the technique of the foreign exchange-credited or most recently of the animal protection round table. And after sitting at a negotiating table, it is proposed to involve, with a flat rate of taxation, service providers and stakeholders operating in one or another of the sectors covered by the sharing economy. Similar to this form of flat-rate taxation, they can already be found in the current Siya Act, but we can see that in this economic context it is the easiest way to move those who have the self-interest in obtaining this type of protection, because only after paying public burdens can they claim the full range of public services. Of course, not only do we focus our strategic ideas on Uber, but we also see the efforts made by Airbnb in relation to the various accommodation and room sharing sites that arise in the case of a Hungarian entrepreneur if he wants to operate a pension or hotel. And we can also see how many clicks you can make and rent a hostel from a private home on Király street via the Internet. [[18.40]] Overall, Jobbik's strategy is that, in addition to increasing the degree of control, moving towards public burdens, we want to provide guarantees to both users, service providers and employees that they will not be exposed to the games of an international tax optimisation group. We recommend to Uber drivers that when a competing app appeared in an overseas city, drivers received a text message saying that from now on the tariff should be reduced to half and managed as they can. Obviously, if they built their life strategies on this, they could end up in an impossible situation. Jobbik's strategy, therefore, is to put Hungarian citizens, taxpayers, in the best position, not on the ground of bans, but not in an extreme liberal way, but rather in a fair nation state, building a national economy, with radical but just solutions in this market, so that everyone who can provide it at a cheaper price, who can use it, can use it cheaper, but the party of order can only imagine it on the ground of order. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-25-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:41 p.m.]]
