u2016-04-13-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. A general debate on the bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications will follow until closure. Government referral T/10097. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-13-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as Mr President said, the government has tabled a bill on the amendment of the Electronic Communications Act. The bill is primarily for harmonisation of laws. At the same time, its provisions to facilitate the construction of high-speed communications networks will also play an important role in ensuring that everyone in Hungary has access to the achievements of the digital age, so if you allow me, my fellow Members and those who are monitoring our work, I will also say to them that I will obviously refer to these links. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Today, competitiveness, development and well-being are meant by digitalization, and Hungary's Government is committed to digital development. Based on this commitment, we have consulted Hungarian citizens online on the possible directions for these developments. Thus, based on the opinions and suggestions of our fellow countrymen, we have prepared the programme of the Digital Prosperity, which provides concrete, accountable tasks for the next period, thus providing assistance to the people, thus setting out tasks in relation to Hungary's digital development. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main objectives of the Digital Prosperity programme is to ensure that everyone in Hungary has access to affordable, high-quality Internet connections. This year, therefore, we can propose to reduce VAT on internet subscriptions, and we plan to ensure that subscription fees are also reduced. This is not a small struggle, there are a lot of tasks ahead of us, but we are ready to begin this commitment. In cooperation with service providers, we intend to make available an internet base package, which is also available to those in need. We design free Wi-Fi services in the centre of all Hungarian settlements, we design free Wi-Fi in schools, universities and in higher-visibility libraries. We also aim to ensure that by the end of 2018 at the latest by the end of 2018, every household that requires this can have access to the super-fast internet. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to meet the above-mentioned objectives and in general to benefit everyone in Hungary from digital development, an adequate network infrastructure is required. It all depends on this, because it is in vain to make Wi-Fi for all settlements and schools, if the connection is constantly lost, or if we make the Internet available to more of our compatriots, in return they will receive only a slow, unsuited service to serve today's modern needs. It is therefore important that developments be made across the country, both by service providers and by the state, which are able to meet increased demands in a stable and good quality. However, these developments are extremely complex and costly in themselves, as we are talking about the new installation or replacement of thousands of kilometres of communication cable. In addition to technical difficulties, a number of administrative obstacles have made it difficult to develop: the acquisition of official authorisations and ownership contributions are both cost-intensive and time-consuming processes. These difficulties slowed down, slowed down developments, and, ultimately, if we hadn't changed this and changed it earlier, Hungary would have been lagging behind, and if we hadn't removed the obstacles on the road, Hungary would have missed it. Because of the prolonged networking work, we cannot keep up with the growing needs. We believe that we cannot afford this lag, and Hungary cannot afford this lag. We therefore need to create an environment that enables cheap, fast and flexible network development. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill you can read before you, presented by the government, serves precisely this purpose, continuing the legal accessibility started in 2015, further simplifies the procedures, specifications and conditions for communications networking work. In this context, the bill sets out the following important provisions, and, if I may say so, fellow Members, I would like to talk about the most important parts of the bill in particular. First and foremost, network developments should be implemented by using existing utility elements and recycling them. The most expensive and time-consuming part of network development is preparatory work. The current proposal therefore requires that, where possible, existing utilities are used by service providers for development. Cables for super-fast internet access should therefore be installed primarily on existing electricity columns or public utility tunnels for plumbing. This results in significant time savings and cost reductions, as there is no need to build a separate column or cable tunnel. If you don't mind, I'm done dissecting the details of this. Secondly, it is important - and I would like to talk about this - that development service providers will be able to easily and quickly access information on the public utility network. On the basis of the current bill, data on existing utilities will be available from a central electronic register, such as the location of columns suitable for the installation of communication cables. This can make designing improvements significantly easier. So far, these data have only been available to individual utility operators, so they should have been contacted separately. The following part of the bill: we believe that this proposal promotes and encourages cooperation between the service providers involved in the development. For rapid and inexpensive developments, it is essential that the service providers involved cooperate and mutually assist each other in achieving the development. It is also important to ensure coordination of construction works, avoiding, for example, the need to reopen the newly built roads in a few weeks due to the replacement of a wire or cable. In many of the provisions of the proposal, it encourages the parties concerned to cooperate and to consult, and in the event of a dispute, the Communications Authority will help to reach a settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an important proposal on the current bill so that the super-fast internet can be easily introduced into all new or renovated buildings. I also believe that in 2016, it may be a fundamental requirement that all new or renovated buildings are ready to connect to the high-speed internet network. The bill would therefore require proper preparation of network connection during construction and renovations. In addition to the ones listed here, honourable Members, the bill also contains technical amendments - if you have read the proposal, you may have encountered them - which have been required by the official experience of recent years. [[9.10]] In parallel with the preparation of this bill, a number of provisions will be laid down by the government at the enforcement level, also because of the fulfilment of our objectives. In short, the bill, which you read, is primarily aimed at implementing EU obligations, while at encouraging the cooperation of the service providers concerned and the reuse of existing network elements, to build a super-fast and inexpensive Internet network. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The government's aim is to provide as many people as possible to access the Internet as possible with this amendment and the parallel implementation regulations, so that as many people can benefit from the economic and social benefits of digital development as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, We have done a lot so far, and we are working a lot for this in the future, and with the successful closure of the applications - I would like to inform the Parliament - the construction of the super-fast internet network will start in 139 Hungarian districts in the second half of the year. We are taking this modern technology to settlements where there has been no quality Internet connection, and now with this program in 139 Hungarian districts we are creating the possibility of access to quality internet for nearly 800 thousand Hungarians. We will soon launch training for nearly 100,000 people nationwide to acquire the knowledge, digital skills needed for the world of the Internet, access to broadband internet in all schools and upgrade existing Internet connections in schools. Free WiFi access is provided in every settlement in the country, as I said before, and in every school. The bill before you will therefore help to meet these objectives quickly overall. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled by the Government. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Törő. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-3	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the proposal is to take measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. Completion of national transposition of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The aim of the Directive is to ensure a uniform set of minimum rights and obligations for certain public utility operators within the Union to facilitate the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and coordination between public utilities. The objectives of the Directive are also consistent with the government's steps towards legal accessibility for broadband networks, with the points of the Digital Nation and Digital Prosperity Programme. At least 30 megabytes of internet access will soon be available to all households, and at least one public institution in each settlement will have free WiFi services available by the end of next year, which will be extended to the interiors of all educational and public education institutions by the end of 2018 and a digital education strategy will be developed. From January 27 to 18 percent of the VAT on internet services will be reduced next year, and a basic package will be introduced to enable those who have not yet been able to pay for the Internet to use it. The Hungarian infocommunication sector is expanding by around 7 percent a year, with 311,000 directly and indirectly more than 400 thousand people working in the sector, most of them in multinational companies. It is important that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises also appear in the digital space. In the age of digital enlightenment, companies that do not acquire digital skills will eventually fall behind in competition. It would be vital for Hungarian SMEs and for the economy of the country to operate on the external markets as well. And although there is no cheaper and more efficient way to participate in international trade than the Internet, only 64 percent of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have their own website. The lack of digital skills is one of the EU's most pressing problems, almost half of the EU's population do not have adequate digital knowledge, and by 2020, 90 percent of jobs will require such skills at some level. As a result, almost a million jobs remain unfilled. The present proposal, the amendment of the Electronic Communications Act, aims at the full transposition of the Directive. This will lead to further accessibility in the regulation and facilitate a simpler, faster flow of networking investments. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Árpád Velez. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-04-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The objectives of the bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications define the country's digital development in the long term. The targets are mainly one of the requirements of the EU 2020 strategy. On the one hand, there are measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and, on the other hand, regulatory needs to help transparency and enforcement. The EU's objective is to give all EU citizens access to high-speed internet connections with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabits by 2020 and at least 50 per cent of the network with a super-fast bandwidth of 100 megabits. In order to achieve this objective, coordinated and complex measures are needed. In Hungary, development has already started with the cooperation of market and state actors. Accordingly, the purpose of this bill is to ensure that the provisions of directives that have not been transposed are in line with the EU Directive. The amendment also allows the Authority to deal with BIX on the issue of net neutrality, which is becoming increasingly important in the European Union. In fact, BIX may facilitate or impede the implementation of the principles of net neutrality by prioritising or failing the data traffic of individual service providers, which, as a result of the modification, is subject to the amendment of the Authority to the Eht. will be able to act by official means to ensure the proper functioning of the entire Hungarian Internet network. The MSZP has established its position on the basis of the above facts and, on this basis, notes the following in relation to the amendment of the law. The aim of the bill, i.e. the development of broadband Internet networks, must be supported. The bill is in line with the government strategies for the development of the infocommunication sector and the EU objectives adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. Directive. It should be noted that the period of the Orbán government between 2010 and 2015 was not about infrastructure developments, but about obstacles to them - utility tax, telephone tax, revenue-related communications tax, Internet tax and the rest. Today, without these special taxes, the infocommunications sector would be much more advanced in Hungary, and even the Prime Minister's promise to access broadband internet for all households in 2018 would be more realistic. There are noticeably many punishments and fines in the material; for example, there is already a failure to post a warning sign of HUF 50,000 - we consider this to be a great deal. We know that legislation needs to be changed, because it is right, and we need development resources, and that is okay. But we have spent a lot of money to improve the network, and the question will be whether it will promote competition from the point of view of customers and, above all, citizens. From a customer-side perspective, development may not be fully effective and services may become more expensive, which are quite high in EU comparison at the moment. [[9.20]] However, improving the value-for-value ratio is a key issue, in particular one of the most important aspects of EU directives, in terms of competitiveness. Therefore, it would be good to see full transparency in the implementation process, and accordingly, the investments that are linked to the implementation will be followed up and monitored throughout. The MSZP is also aware of the remaining delays in the Europe 2020 Digital Agenda, so I am taking this opportunity to remind my fellow Members and the relevant government actors. Based on the 2015 data of the digital economy and society indicator, Hungary's overall result is 0.41 and 20th in the 28 EU Member States, which is by no means a good result. It is sad that Hungary's performance is below average when we look at digital public services as online government, public administration and health services. Only 31 percent of Internet users regularly use e-government services, and only 2.2 percent of general practitioners electronically deliver recipes to pharmacists. In the field of the integration of digital technologies, Hungary also falls below the majority, only 16 percent of businesses use electronic information exchange technologies, 5 percent use cloud services and 8.9 percent are present in social media, which is one of the lowest rates in the EU. Hungary is a group of low-performance countries on this subject. 75 percent of Hungarians use the Internet, which corresponds to the EU average, but if you look at the existence of digital basic skills and the proportion of ICT professionals, Hungary's performance is below the EU average. Particular attention should be paid to the development of digital skills and the quality and expansion of higher education in science, technology, technology and mathematics in the future. On this basis, we can accept the amendment of the law, but we expect further rapid and prudent measures from the government, which will help to properly manage other guidelines for the Europe 2020 Digital Agenda. The Socialist Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-04-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik, as an Internet-friendly party, basically supports this proposal. Except for one point, we welcome this bill. However, before I agree to an autopsy on why it is justified for all Hungarian citizens to have access to high-speed Internet connections by 2020 - at least by 2020, although you have promised 2018 in previous years - I would say that if this is already enshrined in law, this is certainly a step forward. We have a proposal with a view to improving consumer protection, as I said, except for one point, but it has led us a long way to reach this decision. According to KSH's 2015 summary, the proportion of people with broadband Internet access households in Hungary is still only 75 percent. It's been a long drive. Let me quote Viktor Orbán, and he quoted him in his famous unveiled speech by Gábor Kubatov, when he said that Viktor Orbán was not very good at computer science. We've made a lot of progress because, for example, he can already receive and send text messages, and he knows the difference between fax and e-mail, laughing with young people behind his back. It's not that funny, although sometimes we don't know whether to cry or laugh at the government's attitude to the Internet. It is enough to think that they have set off towards the Chinese-Iranian type of Internet censorship, taking legal action in this regard, and even, László Kövér, as a state in the state, has banned the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info, and even the vice-presidents and committee presidents of the National Assembly can no longer order the Magyar Nemzet. In that sense, László Fat is a XX. He's a 100th-century politician who's still in the print press in the first place. In that way, he understands the XXI. The challenges of the century were to give instructions to the IT department - although László Kövér did not know much about it - to block the most read right-wing news portal. Well, this is where the National Assembly is. I think that we should therefore welcome the government's move from the Internet tax to the development of the Internet. Especially after, for example, Tamás Deutsch voted against net neutrality in the European Parliament last autumn, in contrast to his loud words, together with the politicians of Fidesz. If you are debating this, of course, I would be happy to express this question, because Jobbik had a proposal for a decision in 2012 already in the previous cycle for net neutrality, which you would, of course, like to sweep off. Where did we get here? To quote something good from Zsolt Nyitrai, the specialist politician of Fidesz: the Internet is a genre of freedom. These are not the prevailing trends in the world to tax the Internet, but rather to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. What nice words, but he didn't say that when Fidesz wanted to introduce the Internet tax, but a year or two earlier in 2008, when the left-wing government wanted to introduce the Internet tax. How many and how many issues we see from the VAT on basic foods in many areas, how loud the MSZP is from the opposition and, by the way, asking for legitimate things on the government, which they themselves voted off, or, when it comes to the Internet tax, they wanted to introduce. After all this, we must welcome this proposal, that we have come this far. We had to exert a wide range of social pressure on the government to see that the Internet needed to be supported, as it serves the development of the entire national economy. However, there is a specific paragraph, paragraph 4. §, which we absolutely cannot agree with, because we think they want to ban again, this time on the grounds of competitive tendering. More specifically, they want to hide it. The situation is similar to what we saw at the Post Office, and the reasoning is essentially similar. The situation there was so much worse that it was about state-owned companies, and here it is only about the use of state assets - frequency, public frequencies, frequency bands. Jobbik cannot support the encryption of the tendering procedure in this form, so we also have an amendment proposal. It can also be seen from the method of competitive tendering that policy is shaping the economy with artificial interventions, forging a competitive advantage for the legislator, and not for the economy to shape the policy. Article 4 § is the most unacceptable in the proposal, I could also say that the only unacceptable proposal, although there are still funny proposals. For example, the 11th edition. §, according to which they can regulate in a government decree exactly where, but basically also at government windows, they can provide information on the conditions for the development of infrastructure. That sounds great, but it's a little like when Strabag announced in the media near Fidesz who wants to build an underground garage or a bridge on their own property. In this case, we're in a little similar shoes. I do not think that it should be legally stated that in Hungary, some companies - UPC, Digi, Magyar Telekom - who are interested in the development of internet infrastructure will have access to information. It is as if we were regulating how János Lázár can reach out to, say, Viktor Orbán. So I think that this legislation is a little over-regulated, but what we do not agree with specifically is, as I mentioned, the 4th. §. Of course, there is something I would like to highlight from the law, because we think it is very good. That's 20. §, it's a tightening up, if I'm reading it correctly. Previously, the GTC could hide the stages of the unilateral amendment of the contract, and now only in the cases provided for by law will it be possible to do so. In addition, in the future, the rules governing the amendment of the contract with a binding attitude will be laid down by the President in a regulation, which is definitely more stringent than the current one. This is a good direction, because service providers have often been bitter and shortening consumers. The amendment allows the Authority to deal with BIX on the issue of net neutrality, which is becoming increasingly important in the European Union. It is very painful for us that after all this - with Tamás Deutsch's vote - Internet service providers can block torrentisation, slow down e-mailing and websites that do not pay or do not like it. I think that this decision by the European Parliament is unacceptable. In this regard, we also expressly protested, because they served not the interests of the Hungarian people, but the international capital in this regard, which, if anyone were to argue, I would be happy to explain, although this is not the subject of our proposal. [[9.30]] Jobbik has put forward a proposal for net neutrality in previous years precisely because we thought that the Internet was not meant to put large companies and privileged communities in a favourable position, but to continue to serve the development of humanity and to ensure free access to information. On several occasions, we have tried to get the government to consider the idea of free internet. It seems not entirely unsuccessful, because if it is a half-solution, but finally now, following the positive experience of the Internet-friendly settlements initiated by Jobbik, the government will provide free WiFi access, as planned from 2018, the year of the election - perhaps not by accident. In any case, free Wi-Fi is already available in the good towns in the main squares or other public areas of the settlements. This positive example was also what we were proud to advertise both on the borders of the settlements with a table with an Internet-friendly settlement, a regular sign beside the sign of the name of the settlement, and a good example throughout the country. That is why Marcell Tokody proposed it, and even accepted it on the proposal of our congressman in Budapest, the Municipality of Budapest to explore the possibility of free WiFi services throughout Budapest. In addition, I think it would be good to use not only a fixed local wifi solution, but also, let's say, a mobile internet option throughout the country, to make it a subject-right. We could almost include it in the Fundamental Law of the 21st century today. The right to access the Internet in the first century. By the way, the free basic internet to make the government feel a little bit more comfortable could be a continuation of the reduction of the rent, as it would also reduce the fee for Internet packages. We need to talk about this, and that is what we need to talk about first and foremost, and not just about the development issues that have been dissected in this bill. After all, the government announcement that was promised earlier in 2018 is still misleading, and now by 2020 there will be broadband internet everywhere. I mean, it's only gonna be where they can pay top-notch fees in international comparison. For example, in the European Union, the third lowest is the proportion of mobile broadband users on a regular basis, at least once a month, and we should, therefore, speak more intensively about the reduction of charges. We have also drawn attention to this about a year ago that there is a need for a reduction in fees. Just like the government suggested, tax cuts. However, we have been drawing attention to this for a year now, the EU's so-called VAT directive, the VAT directive, does not allow us to reduce VAT on the Internet, since there is no internet service in the specific tax list. However, even though we drew attention to this a year ago, the government did not move its ears until this year. He took this step this year; we had to publish a number of communications, speeches and take action. In fact, we initiated a consultation with Tamás Deutsch last year on making the basic internet free and therefore the Internet VAT reduction problem. However, the prime minister responsible for the national consultation on the Internet has decided to cancel the meeting in vain, accepting our initiative, the specific date of the meeting, referring to the last minute's job accumulation. After that, he referred to his long freedom, or to his refusal to negotiate with Jobbik for the time being, or ever since. I think it's incorrect. It is true that, despite his earlier promise, the Prime Minister responsible for the consultation is not willing to consult in the system of national cooperation which has been mentioned much, and he added his failure to speak and his lack of office even by proposing a demented version of Jobbik's proposals. The same without prior consultation as prior social debate in the case of the Internet tax. This lack of credibility and professionalism of the government, as the reduction of VAT on Internet charges is contrary to the EU VAT directive, as has already been pointed out. Therefore, without these substantial steps, it is not possible to reduce the extraordinarily high tariffs in the EU comparison, which would otherwise result in a competitive disadvantage for Hungary even with 18 percent VAT. The 18 percent VAT is more of a normal VAT compared to the 27 that is currently the world record, so this could be considered normal rather than some kind of discount. There is a need for a shift. According to Jobbik, the government could make the advertising tax proposed by Jobbik free of charge, for example, the basic internet. A good step in this direction is the provision of free Wi-Fi in the main squares of the settlements, as the government now proposes, because the best-run municipalities have already had absolutely a successful examination of this practice under the aegis of the Internet-friendly settlements movement, but the Prime Minister's Commissioner has forgotten to refer to it. That's okay. We are also pleased with a half-solution, although it is a bit painful that the Internet consultation was concluded with a value of HUF 113 million plus a record VAT framework when I last looked at it; since then there must have been even bigger expenses. On this basis, I think it should have been agreed with an interested parliamentary party. After it has been announced that an EU item, in particular, would now be justified in its dual capacity to be here, Tamás Deutsch, but that is why we are proposing the closure and elimination of all loopholes in job accumulation, because it seems that even those responsible for consulting the Internet as prime minister are unable to honour their task. I would ask you to consider Jobbik's proposal for a free internet so that we can reach settlements, small settlements, or farmland areas, with free mobile internet, where there will certainly not even be broadband internet in 2020. It is also important to note the competitive disadvantage that the issue of extremely high internet charges is for our country. The Internet is very expensive for the surrounding countries as well. For example, when you look at income relations, the worst is the comparison. In Denmark, the average fee is only EUR 20, while the net average wage is around EUR 4000, we have almost EUR 500, i.e. more than 20 times the price difference, so we can talk about a 2000 percent difference in comparison between the average price in Hungary and the average price in Denmark. That is why we say that free basic internet would be absolutely feasible from the revenue of advertising tax. I think this could boost telework, remote control, reduce car traffic. For example, the congestion charge should not soon be on the agenda here in Parliament, but we could lead to serious developments. After all, access to information is subject to Article XXI. At least as essential as the need for society in the 20th century [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Like heating or bath water. At last, Viktor Orbán should understand that. I hope Tamás Deutsch shows up sooner or later and gives him this information. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-8	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me have said everything about the directive and the bill, there have also been speakers who have spoken much more, so I do not wish to repeat what has already been said, and I do not wish to mention and respond to the irrelevant things. However, I think it is important to emphasise, on the one hand, that the bill also represents a major step forward for our non-nationals across the border, taking into account the restrictive provisions of geo-blocking. On the other hand, I think it is important to emphasise what no one has said, however, that a simple e-mail does not constitute a private document. A lot of our compatriots don't know that, and they think that what they sent by e-mail, whether it's an order or a statement, is a full legal statement. That's not true. This is only capable of producing limited legal effects. The e-mail will only be full and full if it has electronic signature and time stamp. Such e-mails, however, are extremely limited. I would like to point out to our fellow citizens that if you wish to have full effect by e-mail, you should pay attention to this and send this type of letter. In conclusion, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill; please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2016-04-13-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At a recent economic conference, Minister Mihály Varga acknowledged the government's commitment to the European Union and confirmed in the Government's decision on the development programme for the Digital Nation, that by 2018 it will make Internet access at a minimum speed of 30 megabits available throughout the country, but this will require a serious pace of development by telecom companies, which is hampered by the tax burden on the sector. At present, every new meter of laid wire creates a new tax burden for companies, and as a result, developments have been practically frozen, although Hungary is below the average of developed countries in fixed-line residential internet services, few use it. The employment share of the IT sector is also lower. According to a study by the World Bank, the 10 percent increase in internet penetration causes a 1 percent increase in GDP, i.e. the more people online, the richer a country. In the cultural dimension of electronic communications, I would like to point out that this creates the technical foundations of a new kind of publicity, e-democracy. An important aspect for LMP is that full access will enable all members of the political community, i.e. individuals and their smaller and larger communities, to regain certain functions of social organisation. The system operated on the Internet would enable everyone to be informed on a wide scale, the necessary awareness of decisions, and direct participation in all relevant aspects of decision-making processes. We believe that access to information and the possibility to directly influence decision-making processes will increase civic activity. New forms of reflection and majority consideration of individual initiatives can also be created, limiting the means of political manipulation of party propaganda. Information asymmetries between elected representatives and their voters may or may at least be significantly reduced. I would point out here that citizens would be given much wider opportunities to monitor the operation and management of the state, and that, of course, full access would also provide a wider space for dealing with their skills and problems. Even today, it is an important aspect that for a large part of Hungarian society, only electronic media and Internet services offer some kind of culture, and for Hungarians and diasporas across the border, the cultural offer of Hungarian media, available even via web, is particularly important. With the development of the appropriate technical infrastructure, the values of culture can become even more accessible, regardless of where the user lives. In virtual book, picture and sound rooms, interested persons are free to search for works of interest without temporal and spatial constraints. Online bookstores can provide fast and inexpensive access to the works of Hungarian and universal literary culture. Of course, the continuous systematic digitisation of cultural goods remains an important task. In this way, Internet access creates the opportunity to address certain territorial and social differences, as virtually anyone and anywhere else has a higher chance of accessing educational material, film, images, dictionaries, encyclopedias and other digital information stored in any subject. As a result, it will be easier to participate in a particular project or even distance learning. In Péter Agárdi's words, which I quote: In the second decade of the century, and in the universal culture, national quality and identity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One thing I can think of is that we all know that fiberglass cables have light pulses to transmit information. At the time of the 19th century, The great poet of the century did not think that the light of the spirit could not only shine on the windows, but it could also travel on fiberglass cables. We want this to happen as much as possible. The Possibly Other in Politics supports this. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-13-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. To speak again from the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák has applied. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-13	Dear Parliament, I am very sorry that there is no substantive debate on such an important issue. In fact, we are speaking side by side, so I urge Mr Secretary of State to respond now, when we may have a chance to respond in return, and not in a closed manner. In particular, I would like an answer to 4. As we welcomed the proposals with a view to improving consumer protection, we raised concerns in Article 4. With regard to §8, it appears that, like Posta, I would like to re-encrypt the conditions under which the State's spectrum is used on grounds of competitive tendering. This is unacceptable to us. At the same time, I would like some debate to unfold on net neutrality, because I think that a rather hypocritical and unreal communication decision has been reached in the European Parliament. This was born in October last year, and Fidesz also supported the EP's decision to basically pave the way for a two-speed internet. According to the decision, some content appears in a faster and better quality in exchange for the additional fees paid to ISPs. This will give giant companies another huge advantage, putting at a disadvantage the small and medium-sized businesses of the European Union and, where appropriate, Hungary, as their web content will be slower and more difficult to access. Gergely Farkas, head of our youth department, and our IT cabinet president Zsolt Németh have also presented our proposal on net neutrality in the autumn of last year and several years earlier, even with our fellow Member Péter Schön. I think that, since this was not a sufficient response at the time, it was swept away by the fact that its proposals were not even built in, the government did not embrace these proposals, so I think it should be pointed out again that the regulation adopted with the vote of Tamás Deutsch is a huge disadvantage for the Internet audience, as instead of free choice, the Internet users will first find the content that can be achieved faster or for which multinational companies pay. The legislation gives Internet service providers the right to decide from now on how quickly users have access to certain sites, to prohibit torrentisation or to slow down access to certain encrypted content such as e-mails. These measures are completely contrary to the original objective of net neutrality, i.e. the need for Internet service providers to judge online content, websites and platforms in the same way. It would have been prohibited to directly block or slow down competing websites, online services or programs. We believe that the decision is ultimately wrong for the users, i.e. the Hungarian people, because the European Union has abolished the net neutral Internet by once again creating an advantage for multinationals with huge assets. It is particularly sad, but it is not surprising that Fidesz and Tamás Deutsch, the prime minister responsible for the national consultation on the Internet, have also supported large companies on this issue. It is very painful that he is not here, nor is he participating in this debate, nor is he willing to consult Jobbik, who is fighting as an ensign on the free internet, but let me quote positively once again - testifying to our constructive opposition - a politician. I have quoted Viktor Orbán and Gábor Kubatov, Fidesz politician Zsolt Nyitrai regarding the condemnation of the Internet tax, too bad he didn't do this when they themselves suggested the Internet later. In any case, let me quote L. Simon László, who, as State Secretary, responded to our proposal on our e-mail internet in the closet of the ad tax, at least there was a reaction to this, even if it does not seem now, but let me try to provoke it. Then he answered quite well. Don't be alarmed, Mr. President, I won't quote anything perverted from him again, not his poems. What he said, however, was that if this continues to be the case, i.e. the rise in domestic internet charges or even the high price, as we are currently in the area of Internet services, László L. Simon said, Hungary will be severely disadvantaged. Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do here, and in some places there is already more internet access than we do in many areas of the country. [[9.50]] It's been a problem for many years. In France, Germany, Austria, income conditions are much higher than we do, and in fact, broadband access is cheaper. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area, said L. Simon László. Then, turning to the Minister, he said: "We also ask the Minister and recommend that the government intervene with effective means in the market process, and that we do need to achieve much cheaper internet access and reach much wider layers and overcome the competitive disadvantage that is already felt. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, L. Simon László said that it's exceptionally rare, in a state of grace, to say that he agrees with me on something, which he doesn't think happened once in the past four years, but I'm sure of it. I am sure of that, and if we have managed to get on the green side with him, but it is not a simple case, then I hope that with the much more constructive Secretary of State, who is more well-versed on the subject, we will be able to get green on this issue; and I hope that, even here in the context of the debate, in his worst case, when we can no longer respond, but I do not wish, especially if he provides his support, at least his support in principle. I understand that they may not give money for this, because we need money for every other government lobby, for oligarchs, not for you to decide, but at least professionally say that it is justified to talk about the free internet. Because the 27 percent of the world record VAT will be reduced to 18 percent, if the European Union will at all allow it, as I have called attention to this problem for a year now, I am glad that they will slowly take action, but this is not a solution in itself. In order to reduce internet usage charges and at least to make the basic internet free, which would be necessary for the entire national economy, this is not a social issue, I would rather consider it a fundamental right, otherwise, to broaden the movement of Internet-friendly settlements launched by Jobbik, and to ensure free access to basic, preferably mobile internet as a fundamental right, in addition to the introduction of free Wi-Fi services in public areas, in all settlements. In this connection, we would expect the Secretary of State's support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-13-14	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Ákos Kara, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-04-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, thank you very much for your positive opinions and comments. Indeed, we are talking about a crucial and important issue for the country. Thank you very much for the constructive and positive opinions in most of you and for the points where you expect answers to your questions. First of all, I would like to point out that the plan and the aim remain unchanged, that by the end of 2018, we want to make it available to Hungarian households so that they can connect and connect to the super-fast internet if they want to, if they want to. In this programme, it seems to me that my colleagues and I are in constant consultation, we are holding deadlines at the moment. This is a very important objective, not only because it is a key government objective, but, as all speakers have said, and I have said it several times among the walls of Parliament, from the point of view of Hungary, from the point of view of Hungarian families and Hungarian people, an extremely important objective is their lives, their everyday lives, their work, in all other respects. So we are paying particular attention to this. By the way, those of my fellow Members who are dealing with this, they know very well that this commitment at the end of 2018 will, by the way, lead us to a large number of EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the professional debate, there was obviously also a political debate. It is very important that there are no loose ends, so I would like to say that there was no Internet tax, there is no Internet tax, and there will be no Internet tax. So my position has always been clear on this, and the Ministry of Development has always been clear on this. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there are many questions that have not been raised in connection with the bill. Some of them, to which we must respond now, but, if you will allow me, the framework of the law would not bring with it that we can now discuss all the existing issues relating to the Internet, not even because, by the way, a lot of topics have come up that I believe have already been discussed and exchanged. First of all, I would like to say to the LMP that this is a very important thing, and I would say that if the Member were here, but I say it because it is important, so I respectfully say to him that none of the developments in Hungary have been frozen. We are just about to implement, in 139 districts, the infrastructure improvements needed for broadband internet, in terms of voluntary commitment, government and EU resources, together with businesses. And that's what I said before, that we're on time, that we're good with it, that we can keep up the deadlines. Now, in this state, I can safely say that. And I would like to confirm once again, so the opposite is happening in Hungary, the country is preparing for the biggest development of this type in recent years. And for the better Member, I also say to my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, that I very much hope that there will be a lot of Hungarian businesses involved in this development. I very much hope that many Hungarian businesses will and will play a role in building the super-fast internet. That will obviously be decided by the dedicated bodies, people. Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of Internet neutrality, if you will allow me, my fellow Member, I will not comment now, in the context of this draft law, as this goes beyond the scope of the proposal that has been tabled, but I would like to point out that this has already been discussed between us, and we have discussed this in Parliament, but it may be necessary to give us an opportunity to discuss this part, because I have a different opinion from you on the consequences of the EU decision adopted and related to it. Ladies and gentlemen, Look, I'd like to come up with anything else... yes, we're talking about providing the internet base package that's available on the basic internet, and then I'd like to be connected to the Internet consultation. This was a very important thing, as tens of thousands of people gave their views on the Internet consultation initiated by the Prime Minister's Commissioner. And indeed, as a result of his work and this consultation, there have been a lot of legislative proposals or intentions to assist the Internet and will be presented to the Parliament. So I think that, in this sense, the Internet consultation was a very important and case-supporting process. In fact, in relation to the draft law, I do not think that any other kind of comment has been made that should now be responded to, so I thank the President and my fellow Members for their patience, and then I would like to ask the fellow Members to support and support the Government in adopting the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-13-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9894. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-13-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. T/9894. Legislative bill No. 1 amends the rules for submitting the referendum question. Under the rules in force, a question on the same subject may not be submitted after the submission of a particular question by the date and in the cases provided for in the referendum law. This is the so-called submission moratorium. On 23 February 2016, two parallel referendum initiatives were submitted, on which a number of appeals proceedings were initiated. In order not to repeat the submission-related events, the government requested proposals from the National Election Committee to amend the referendum law. Taking into account the proposal of the National Election Committee for a moratorium on submission, the Government submitted its bill amending the law on the initiative of the referendum on 1 April 2016. [[10.00]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The problem of the moratorium on submission in time stems from the fact that, while the previous regulation did not provide a question of the same subject from the date on which the question was validated, the current legislation provides that the question is to be submitted at the starting date. Since the decision of the national electoral committee certifying the referendum initiative or refusing certification can be brought to the Curia under the referendum law for redress, the procedure on one issue is closed if the deadline for appeal has failed or, in the event of an appeal, the Curia has reached a final decision. From then on, a new question can be presented, which thus affects the beginning of a moratorium. It is necessary to amend certain provisions of the referendum law in order to avoid a repeat of the unworthy situation experienced. The root of the problem is due to the moratorium on submission, and it is therefore appropriate to set the starting date later in the procedure, thus allowing parallel collection of signatures on issues of the same subject, so that the order of the submission would not decide between the same issues, but the speed and success of the collection of signatures. This will ensure the primacy of the initiative with greater social support. The most appropriate date for allowing parallel collection of signatures is the final decision of the National Election Commission on the control of signatures. This will allow the signing of referendum initiatives on the same subject to be carried out simultaneously, and the moratorium would therefore be accompanied by a final national electoral committee decision on the existence of a sufficient number of signatures instead of submitting the question. In this case, it is necessary to determine when the National Election Committee will decide on the same subject. It is best to make this decision when the question is validated. The first of the initiatives on the same subject should be informed on the basis of a personal notification, since the first of these issues is not conceptually possible, as the first of them is the first to submit the same subject, since the initiatives compete with each other in the event of further questions being verified. In order to inform voters, it is necessary to keep a table of initiatives on the same subject and to keep a register on the Váltas.hu website. On the basis of the proposal submitted by the National Election Committee, the proposal contains a significant reduction of the parallelity moratorium as follows. In the case of an electoral initiative, it is possible to submit a question on the same subject until the decision of the National Election Committee on the existence of an appropriate number of valid signatures on another issue on the same subject is final. No further questions on the same subject shall then be submitted. The collection of signatures already in progress shall be terminated, the signature collection sheets shall be returned to the National Election Office. Under the legislation, the Government and the President of the Republic cannot initiate a referendum on an issue in which the referendum initiative has already been definitively validated. Dear Parliament, In addition to changing the rules of the moratorium, the proposal includes the following amendments. As I have already said, it is proposed that the National Election Committee decide on the existence of the same subject when verifying the issue. In the case of a number of identical issues, the National Election Committee will inform the organiser of the first question in writing, and the voters will also be informed of the initiatives on the official website on the same subject, as I mentioned. The proposal provides for rules similar to those applicable to the management of recommendation sheets used in parliamentary elections for signature collection sheets. As a result, the organizers of the referendum may collect the supporting signatures on signature collection sheets issued by the election office with a unique identifier. This requires the election offices to check sheets in uniform format, which can be easily scanned, and from a data protection point of view, it is an advantage that the organisers will have to account for all sheets at the end of the collection period. The proposal clarifies that the results of the verification of signatures are set out in a decision of the National Election Committee. The new rules on the moratorium established by the proposal should also apply to referendum initiatives on entry into force. Dear House, The amendments outlined above would represent an important step forward in the regulation of the institution of the referendum on a priority issue. I therefore ask that the bill be supported in the vote after its discussion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the bill before us. There will be two kinds of debate: one will be about competing referendum initiatives and the other will be about political profiling. About the latter, according to his profile, which party he belongs to or which party he acts for, I do not wish to take a stand, so I will do the following. Dear House, In theory and sometimes in practice, because of competing referendum issues, the problem of competing rights will be put in the hands of the referendum, as long as the referendum initiative cannot be used because someone else has exercised the right to initiate a referendum, his right to be left behind. The root of this problem is due to the moratorium on submission, and this problem is created because of the fact that the Secretary of State has presented in detail that a moratorium on submission is contained in the law; otherwise, the law currently in force is regulated differently from the previous referendum law. As this is the root of the problem, so in the case of competing rights and rights competing on competing referendum issues, the most important issue is the starting date for the submission of a moratorium, it is therefore appropriate to set the starting date later in the procedure, thus allowing parallel collection of signatures on issues on the same subject. This has been proposed by the National Election Committee and the National Election Office. This would not be the order of the submission, but the speed and success of the collection of signatures, so that the primacy of the initiative with greater social support can be ensured. It follows that the problem of the competing rights mentioned above will be decided which referendum initiatives will be supported by several signatories, more proactive citizens. In accordance with the above, the most reasonable date is the final decision of the NVB on the control of signatures in the event of the permit for the parallel collection of signatures. This will allow the signing of referendum initiatives on the same subject to be carried out in parallel, and the moratorium would therefore replace the submission of the question with a final decision of the National Election Commission on the existence of a sufficient number of signatures. In this case, it is necessary to determine when the National Election Committee will decide on the same subject. It is best to make this decision when the question is validated. [[10.10]] The first of the initiatives on the same subject should be informed on the basis of a personal notification, since the first of these questions is formally excluded from the scope of the same subject, since the initiatives compete with each other in the event of further questions being verified. In order to inform voters, it is necessary to keep a table of initiatives on the same subject and to keep a register on the Váltas.hu website. In addition, there is, of course, a need to regulate the fate of ongoing initiatives at the time of setting up the moratorium, which may arise in several cases if the new legislation is introduced. I do not wish to discuss this in detail; this is what the Secretary of State has spoken about, and it is also detailed in the bill. So the most important issue, the most important legal problem that we have to solve in this situation, is that in competing referendum matters, all citizens who initiate use their right to initiate a referendum, these citizens, until the priority issue is finally resolved, can collect signatures. Of course, it will cause an interesting and practical problem that the referendum initiatives that are classified as being on the same subject, but which are not necessarily referendum initiatives with the same wording, how will voters react if they find that signatures are collected for several referendum initiatives on the same subject. However, since it is not excluded that multiple referendum initiatives are supported by voters, they do not need to take a position on this issue from their point of view at the beginning, and only if the National Election Committee finally finalises the referendum initiative. Dear House, So, in our view, the government's proposal is a fair and practical problem, and it is not only a recent proposal, but also a solution to the problem that has occurred in the past. I trust there will be a qualified majority in this House. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, when we are discussing this issue, it is worth recalling first that, during the constitutionalisation, the government and the governing parties have dealt the most serious blow to direct democracy when they have changed the rules on the validity and effectiveness of the referendum. There has been no effective and valid referendum in Hungary since the entry into force of this provision. This is why it is an important issue, of course, but compared to this, a marginal issue that we are discussing today is the return of this change or change, which is primarily important for this institution of direct exercise of power to function again in Hungary. It is also worth considering bringing the institution of the popular initiative back into the legal system. I know that this has led to a number of unpleasant debates for you in the last term, however, although Hungary is not fundamentally based on the principles of direct democracy, it would be worth maintaining these two institutions of direct democracy on the one hand and on the other hand keeping them in such a way that it can be used and enforced, because there are rules on how to collect signatures, how to initiate a referendum, if there is only practical hope to hold a valid and effective referendum. Once again, I would remind you that in the event that these rules had been in force, there would have been a total of two valid and effective referendums in Hungary during the last 30 years - 27-28 years - during this period, i.e. almost three decades. I think that when we talk about this issue, it is worth putting this on the table in the first place and asking, and what is more, calling on the parties of government to submit a change proposal to this effect or to initiate a consultation on this. The other, which is a more concrete background to this proposal, was known by everyone. Congressman Répássy has also pointed out that there is obviously going to be a discussion about this. Of course we'll talk about it. It will be said that the past period and, rather, that recent events have highlighted almost all the problematic points of the referendum procedure. This happened because there was a referendum initiative by the Socialist Party on Sunday's lockdown, which the government thought should be prevented at all costs, because every survey showed that 70-75-80 percent of society - depending on how much they said, but about these numbers - would oppose the lockdown on Sunday and would support such a referendum initiative. This is why the National Election Committee and the National Election Office, with the active and active participation and assistance of the Socialist Party's referendum initiative, have been hampered by various methods. If, in my view, you are using all the legitimate and, by the way, legitimate means that go far beyond what I consider to be legal, then it shows, as a matter of fact, what problems there are today in relation to the referendum procedure and where they need to be amended. Of course, the most... - let me put it this way - the bottom of this process was when bald thugs linked to one of Fidesz' Vice-Presidents prevented the MSZP's representative from submitting the referendum initiative. It is worth noting this here because, on the one hand, it is not possible to overlook such an event if we are talking about it, and not only because it has endangered not only the referendum, but also basically the democratic order in Hungary, but also because if there is no such event, there is no such event, which has caused a public uproar not only in Hungary but also at international level, this proposal is not before us today. I can tell you that for sure. The reason I can say this so firmly and surely is because the head of the National Election Office has been saying, months ago - perhaps even if I measure this time in years - what problems there are with the electoral rights system and what problems there are in the referendum. The head of the Election Office said these problems at a number of conferences, including a number of which I was also present, whether as a student or as a lecturer. The government didn't move his earstick. In other words, if there is no such scandal, there is no such unprecedented attack on democracy, then this proposal is not before us today. At least that's the benefit of it. I think that when we judge whether or not we can support this proposal or how we stand it, it is inevitable to know and describe these precedents. Just because, as I will explain, many of the proposals made by the head of the Election Office have not been incorporated into this law. [[10.20]] The only thing he wants to regulate is the one that's become a public scandal. This is yet another indication that nothing else is being done but to ease the moods in this regard and, if possible, not to allow for such a situation of public scandal in the future. This is, by the way, a good side effect of this proposal. What I would like to highlight from it, therefore, as a positive and positive point, is that it significantly reduces the rules of the moratorium on submission. However, as I said, and I would like to be specific here, many elements of the drafts on the National Election Office's website have not been included in the proposal, which have been left out of the proposed bill. These include, for example, the idea of restricting the right to refereeship and, in practice, a completely pointless signature of support. This currently represents 20-30 voters. So, they wanted to drastically increase the number of these to at least 200-250 people, it would have been worth considering. They abandoned unreasonable claims on the submission of the customer gate, left the provisions which would have increased the powers of the NVB, where in several cases they could have rejected the referendum initiatives from a formal point of view compared to the current one. But I will go further: according to the experience of the past period, both the National Election Committee and the Curia have adopted an interpretation which is unduly narrow, restrictive, not only self-absorbed from the point of view of the initiators and voters of the rules on the legal institution of the referendum, which, in fact, led to the emptying of participatory democracy, and I will put it in parentheses: of course, in addition to the proper promotion of this legislation. The MSZP had its own legislative amendment proposal, which you rejected yesterday during the vote, i.e. did not allow it to be included in the series of subjects or discussed. The purpose of these proposals, or the purpose of this proposal, would have been, in addition to the proposal before us at the present time: to clarify the requirements for referendum issues, to define clearly the rules of the referendum procedure and to protect the legal institution of the referendum. What we miss most about the proposal before us, and what they were in ours, I would like to highlight a few aspects of this. The legal requirement for clarity of the question of referendum would have been or would have been necessary. Today's case law is amazing. If the issue is in line with the common language, it is considered to be an infringement of the requirement of legislative clarity, whereas if a precise question is presented to them, it is considered incomprehensible to the voter. You know, it's a case of this, or there's no hat on it, which is typical, which expresses that the question should be clear primarily to the voter. So this would be the better way of putting it, that it must not be clear from the legal point of view, but it must be clear to the voter what the goal is to achieve, and it is sufficient for Parliament to set the direction of the decision resulting from the effective referendum. On the other hand, the legislative barriers to a referendum must be interpreted restrictively - that would be the right thing to do. At present, both the NVB and the Curia have adopted an extension interpretation of the limits of the powers of the Parliament and of the prohibited subjects, on the basis of which a referendum on a substantive social policy or economic issue cannot essentially be held. In addition to repealing the current absurd regulation on parallel referendum initiatives, a moratorium on parallelity is set up in order to order a referendum. Accordingly, the collection of signatures may be initiated on issues of the same nature. The Parliament also decrees a referendum on the issue where the necessary number of referendum signatures was first informed. This regulation provides the author of a serious social issue with the right of priority, and does not impose public law requirements on the effective printing of the electoral office's serial number agency's vending machine. What I would like to point out, and here only as an adjective, is that I am pleased that the Secretary of State has already said otherwise here in the Expo, but we consider his justification to be cynical in certain places as a bill. For example, when it literally says that, at the end of the moratorium on the submission of referendum initiatives on the same subject, this bill will be used to prevent situations that may arise. Now, after the series of events on 23 February 2016, I think you could have left this word, perhaps, out of the explanatory statement, as the Secretary of State has rightly left out of his own speech. The majority of the objectives and instruments contained in our own proposal are not reflected in the proposal, here they would refer back to the wording there, none of the proposed objectives under points (a), (b) and (c). This only partial identity concerns the problem of competing initiatives, giving benefits to issues with real social support. This solution is better, as Mr Répássy said, than the current one, but we do not believe that it will create a level playing field, even so, because if, for example, one issue is certified by the NVB and another parallel initiative is not, but both are given a green lamp during the Curia review procedure, then the decision-making speed of the Curia actually decides who can collect more signatures, or at least has a very significant advantage. The proposal lacks the guarantee clause which would significantly reduce the deadline for the Curia's decision, from 90 days to 30, for example; on the other hand, it should be noted that in the example outlined, the decision in the Curia should be taken at the same time as possible, so that no competitive advantage of any initiative is derived from the time of the Curia's decision. In the NTI proposal, the President of the NVI would have produced a specimen of the signature collection sheet. The proposal does not take over this solution, but at the same time the NVI issues all signature collection sheets with a serial number. Here, the financial penalty for unset sheets is HUF 1000. The proposal therefore, and I say this as a criticism, maintains the deadline for a 90-day remedy for the Curia in an unacceptable manner. In summary, Mr President, I would like another 30 seconds. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. The government proposal does not contain any important guarantee rules. So, as far as the content of the referendum question is concerned, I am thinking of narrowing down the interpretation of prohibited subjects, and in practice this proposal only solves the competition for submission. Therefore, the proposal is uneven, and there is a great deal missing, we would have liked to see a more complex proposal before this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-22	Thank you very much, Congressman, and thank you for keeping your 30 seconds. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on recent anomalies [[Defiance. Dr. András Schiffer: Anomalies?!]] Christian Democrats consider it necessary to redefine the moratorium on the submission of referendum initiatives on the same subject, in order to avoid an unworthy situation before the NVI in the future. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The question arises as to why the problem of submitting a moratorium arises, even if András Schiffer does not like it. The appropriate legal answer to the above question is that while the previous regulation, i.e. the 1998 III. Law 12 §2 of the Act provided that, if the OVB had validated the signature collection sheet or the question, there were no new specimen of the signature collection sheets on the same content, or there was no legal possibility to present a new initiative for ordering a referendum, until the referendum or the rejection of the initiative, or until the deadline for the submission of the signatures had failed, the rules in force, i.e. the 2013 CCXXXVIII. The mere date of submission of the referendum question itself should be the guiding principle for determining the starting date under law. [[10.30]] As the Nstv in force is the basis for the Nstv decision approving the referendum initiative or refusing verification. on the basis of the Court of Justice, the proceedings on a referendum issue are therefore closed today if the period of appeal has failed or, in the case of an appeal lodged, if the Curia has made its final decision. From that date on, the new referendum issue can legally be submitted, which, of course, affects the beginning of the moratorium. Here we are faced with the question of who and why it is faster to submit a new referendum question. So here comes the paradox of Zenón, so to speak, the modern-day problem of Achilles and the turtle case, in which, as we know, the Curia made its own decision on a philosophical basis, so they became the last. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the last of the first.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Sometimes the image of the senses is misleading, and the movement is an illusion, so the result of the race for the NTI time stamp is difficult to determine. In order to avoid such future reflections, the Christian Democrats support the easing of the moratorium on submission, i.e. the possibility of submitting a referendum initiative on the same subject by the voter until the decision on the existence of at least 200,000 valid signatures on another issue of the National Electoral Commission on the same subject becomes final. Upstairs at the same time... [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] - thank you, Mr President - they also mean that neither the Government nor the President of the Republic could initiate a referendum on an issue where there is already a legally validated referendum initiative. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, the NTB would decide on the existence of the same subject at the time of the verification of the issue. In the event of a number of identical issues being verified, the NVB would inform the organiser of the first question in writing and inform voters of the above facts on its website. The bill provides for rules on the handling of reference sheets used in parliamentary elections for the collection of referendum signatures, which in particular means that the organisers of the referendum will only be able to legally collect their supporting signatures on signature collection sheets issued by the NVI and individually identified by each sheet. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the one hand, the above provision facilitates the exercise of the rights of the organisers of the referendum, because the initiators are free of the tasks and costs involved in copying the sheets and, on the other hand, it means that the NVI will be able to verify the correct and fast processing of high-quality signature collection sheets and, on the other hand, the law is a significant step forward from a data protection point of view by the organisers of the referendum at the end of the collection period of all signature collection sheets. The bill also clarifies that the results of the verification of signatures are set out in the NVB Decision and settles that the new rules should also apply to the referendum initiatives in progress at the time of the entry into force of the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the Christian Democrats support the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. T/9894. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-13-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to talk about the political culture in Hungary and quite simply how this country works. We know well what happened in February at the National Election Office, and I do not wish to repeat this in detail, but it is also a very important aspect of the whole question of the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, who is the author of this bill. This was asked three days after the events at a press conference by László Trócsányi, and he said that he had no responsibility because the National Election Committee and the National Election Office did not indicate to him the problem of such problems with this regulation. This was done in February 2016. July 20, 2015 - July 20, 2015! - we read in the MTI that Ilona Pálffy NVI President informed the Minister of Justice that the consequences of the rules on the handling and reception of referendum issues are unclear, so the President of the National Election Office is initiating a legislative amendment to the Minister of Justice. A week later, on July 27, 2015, we read that the President of the National Election Office initiates the Minister of Justice to cease the so-called parallelity moratorium on referendum issues currently in force. On Monday, Ilona Pálffy said that the aim of the amendment was to collect signatures at the same time on a number of similar issues and to hold a referendum in which the 200,000 supporting signatures were collected as soon as possible. On 22 October 2015, anyone who comes up with an appropriate question - the President of the National Election Office proposes - can start collecting signatures even if there are other similar referendum initiatives. The current regulation, whereby the owner of a business open the other day on Sunday with a false question got in the way of the socialists, already jeopardises the seriousness of the legal institution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the President of the National Election Office drew the attention of the Minister of Justice to all these problems months before the events. [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right!]] He has done so on several occasions, in particular initiated a legislative amendment with the Minister of Justice. And you didn't do anything with that question for six months. That's why what happened in February happened in front of the National Election Office. Obviously, when there is some scandalous event in politics or political culture, the name of Gábor Kubatov always comes up somehow. And while we are at a political culture, it is worth recalling the event when the so-called Cubatov recording, known to everyone, was made public about what the Fidesz replied about this, what was the answer of Gábor Kubatov. It was, my fellow Members, that a few days later, a similar voice recording appeared on one of the video dividers, on which an alleged socialist campaign activist spoke about the fact that the MSZP also operates a similar system and similar illegal databases. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Turns out it's a fake!]] However, this recording was distorted by a cheap program that the alphahir.hu news portal was able to restore to the original recording, and it turned out that Gábor Kubatov's personal secretary was the [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Wow! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes, you did.]] who pretends to be a socialist campaign activist and tries to frame the MSZP like this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: double agent!]] [[10.40]] Of course, you don't have to worry about them, just see what a political culture Fidesz Vice President represents, because he'll turn up here during the events at NTI. It was not only outrageous that these bald people were sent there and tried to prevent István Nyakó from submitting this question, but also - it turns out from the record - that these people were sent there to blame the Jobbik, as if we had sent them there. In the beginning, they were in two groups, and they talked about the fact that there was a Guardian group, so they were trying to make them appear, so they were trying to make it look like Jobbik was the one who wanted to prevent the MSZP from starting a referendum by such means. It's amazing how low some people can sink in political culture! Turning to the further outrageous part, I see the importance of collecting signatures not only professionally and not only logistically, but only on the signature collection sheets issued by NTI. We have also heard from Gergely Bárándy that the president of the National Election Office did not suggest this, but suggested that the NTI President only issue the sample, and that then voters and organisations can multiply the signature collection sheets themselves. This is important not only because, in the case of a referendum, it is extremely important that more organisations together - civil society organisations and parties - want to collect signatures; it is much easier logistically to send these signatures to any point in the country via the Internet. But it's not just logistics that interferes here. When I read the explanatory statement, which Imre Vejkey has just described literally, that the organisers are getting rid of the costs of copying the sheets, then it should be added that the state will, on the other hand, obtain these costs, the order for itself, so from now on, through the National Election Office, it will be the State that can give the printing costs of referendum questions and referendum signatures to some company. Let us look at the political culture in this regard that your government has achieved in recent years. In September 2015, we read in the Magyar Nemzet that the company of Ákos Erdős, who had been hit sharply by Fidesz, received a 2.5 billion-dollar deal on a tray, because, without open public procurement, ANY Security Printing Company Plc., linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány's former business partner Ákos Erdős, was appointed in secret for the production and delivery of the three national elections in 2014. [[Moraj in the benches of the opposition. Dr. Imre Vejkey: Public procurement only!]] No, without open public procurement, NVI provided data to the Hungarian National Government; without open public procurement, citing national security interests. I'm going to get to the point of what the national security interest was in this case, but let me just tell you what kind of money we're talking about. For the printing products of the parliamentary elections, the company received HUF 901, 934 and 580 million for local and national government and for the European Parliament. [[Pocket money!]] According to the National Election Office, the application of the rules of open public procurement, the publication of the documents and technical specifications forming part of the call for proposals would seriously jeopardise the safe conduct of the elections. [[Dr. Vas Imre: That's right!]] Therefore, a simplified procurement procedure was carried out. Who created the possibility of this eased procurement procedure? The previous Orbán government in 2011, in a government decree. The National Election Office also added that it is in the interest of national security to provide ballot papers with anti-counterfeiting protection and security features. I see the Secretary of State nodding, I am very pleased that you think so, but then explain to me that you should be so kind, Mr Secretary of State, that while NTI refers to national security interests, this company, ANY, has a significant share of foreign companies. [[Dr. András Schiffer: At least it's not offshore!]] So you will produce it without open procurement procedure with Ákos Erdős' company, a company with a foreign stake in two US companies, EG Capital LLC in the United States and Digital Forest LLC. The former is the interest of Ákos Erdős, Chairman of the Board, and the latter, what God gives, his son, Tamás Erdős. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] They are not ashamed to attack Ákos Erdős and the then Gyurcsány government, for example, during the public education debate day, István Hollik, for the purchase of the National Textbook Publisher under scandalous conditions. István Hollik was right about this, but here you are criticizing the then Gyurcsány government and Ákos Erdős, while giving him a 2.5 billion-dollar business without open public procurement. It is not, Mr. Secretary, that this printing activity is once again being acquired by the government through the NTI, and I would like to give this opportunity to Ákos Erdős in such procedures, would it not? Because, yes, the president of the NVI, once again, in his professional proposal, did not suggest that. It did not propose that signatures should be collected only on the signature collection sheets issued by the NVI, but that the specimen should be certified by the President of the NVI and then duplicated by the organisations involved in the collection of the referendum signatures. Logistically, it's much more logical. You have collected signatures, you know very well why this is necessary. The collection of a referendum signature is not the same category as, let's say, the collection of a recommendation for candidates for representatives. It is not the same at all, it has a very different nature, as civil society organisations can also participate in the collection of signatures. Logistically, it is not justified to collect only on signature collection sheets issued by the NTI. This will make it very difficult to collect signatures, and this administrative measure alone will make it much harder to hold a referendum in Hungary. Another issue in this context is the imposition of a fine. We should also remember, and it is also related to political culture, how the fine was imposed on the law during parliamentary recommendations. First of all, I think István Szávay has submitted a wrong law, and it was presented as an electoral procedural law that the number of referrals should be passed to the nominating organisation as required, and then we drew attention, I think that this regulation is wrong, because if someone stands in front of the Election Office with a truck and tells them to fill it up, then the electoral office staff will have to fill it up, because if he requires so many sheets, then it will have to be packed. We recommended that the quantity required to collect the valid recommendations be transferred to the nominating organisation plus 20% due to the error rate. They didn't accept it, but they brought in the fine, saying yes, they'd have to hand over as much as they needed, but they'd fine you if you didn't bring it back. This is also a bad regulation, especially in a referendum, it will be much harder to operate, I will say it again, because it is not one or two nominating organisations that participate in a referendum, but a large number of civil society organisations, such as the 2009 referendum signature collection that would have aimed at preventing or converting reimbursements. Many civil society organisations have been involved in the collection and it is unviable to try to apply this fine here as well. I simply do not understand why it is not good in this case to give them what is necessary to collect the 200 000 valid signatures, plus because of the percentage of errors, if they are already thinking about the sheets issued by NTI. I think, once again, during a referendum campaign, there is absolutely no reason to make such restrictions. Of course, taking advantage of the political importance of the moratorium on parallelity now opens the referendum law, but there are a number of sensitive issues that are simply not mentioned in this regard. Mr Gulyás Gergely, representing Fidesz, took part in the five-party consultation convened by the LMP, and I thank him for this, although this may have been only his own idea, because otherwise they are shutting down from any other substantive discussion, and we can see that they have not even received the proposals of the NVI President. There is no mention of what will happen to the issue of local referendums, nor of the establishment or composition of the NVB in this proposal, and of the financing of referendum campaigns they simply do nothing, change nothing, regulate nothing. [[10.50]] So I have to say that, as an opposition party, the LMP has put a much more meaningful, much smarter, much more sensible proposal on the table than the Minister of Justice has put forward. It is decided that there are substantial changes in the LMP proposal, and they are touching this system in substance, and you are only trying to make a political compensation with this proposal, because you already see that the events cannot be sustained, because there is such an outrage. Therefore, this bill does not touch the substantive questions, which it touches, and in many cases very badly, not, of course, to resolve the issue of parallelism moratorium well. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-13-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to briefly respond to the colleagues before me. First of all, I have two questions for Mr Vejkey, and I hope that we will have an answer in this debate. My fellow Member, what cheering camp in Ferencváros do you think is called an anomaly? Tell me. Which cheerleading group took the name of the anomaly? Because it wasn't an anomaly, you know. Secondly, I would like to ask you, as the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party, to give a clear, direct answer, especially after your voting attitude yesterday and the day before yesterday, whether the Christian Democratic People's Party stands for Mrs Erdősiné's referendum initiative. Do you collect signatures for the success of the referendum initiative of the Christian Democratic People's Party Erdősiné? Answer this question, and the angle will come out of the bag that it was indeed an anomaly or something quite different. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, What you're doing is pure damage control. It is simply a matter of pushing over the bike in February, using the popular expression of their minister, and trying to distract attention. They're trying to distract attention by playing tricks yesterday, by revoking the store lock, and by using this bill. You're not gonna get away with this. I very much hope that the National Security Committee will take seriously what happened at the end of February, and that we will have a clear explanation of how these hooligans and thugs got there, how Mrs Erdősini got there, who is Erdősiné, what is her relationship with these thugs, and who has held political training for these thugs to play the charade that my fellow Member Dóra Dúró has just told us on Constitutional Street. That's what you should answer, Mr. Secretary. We should answer where the investigation is taking place, which clearly, in black and white, presents to the Hungarian people what is the shameful action that took place in the Constitution Street at the end of February. You're not gonna get away with this. First-rate national security risk in a country when a leading government party is connected to half-criminal groups, hooligan gangs. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He's not afraid, he's scared!]] Please answer that. The wrinkling of the referendum law will not undo this. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is, of course, forward-looking in several elements, while not even taking into account the proposals made by the President of the NVI. Of course, it is also true that what the better-speaker has just said, it is obvious that in the collection of signatures the situation must be taken into account that, unlike the parliamentary elections, the institution of the referendum is not reserved primarily for the parties, but for an institution for which occasional organised citizens' communities and civil society organisations are also entitled. So when it comes to the correction of this institution, when it comes to how the institution of a referendum could be made alive, it is not primarily about the parliamentary parties, but about the citizens' communities that are trying to obtain mass support in relation to a decision, a violation, a proposal from citizens. As far as the proposal is concerned, since it concerns a fairly narrow circle, so it is likely that only the intention to cover up the shame at the end of February can be achieved, I would mention two specific amendments. One is that the story is correct if the head of state, especially the government, does not have the opportunity to perform tricks not only after the announcement of the moratorium, but even during the collection period. I know you guys are in a great deal of fun, but this will be fair regulation if the government and the President of the Republic cannot declare a referendum on the same subject after the start of the collection of signatures. The second is that, according to the proposal, the announcement of the moratorium is indeed a substantive decision by the National Election Committee. Just because it is a substantive decision, the bill meets constitutional requirements if it provides for the right of appeal. In Hungarian, in contrast to the decision of the NVB to declare the moratorium, the appeal must be guaranteed, in other words the referendum law itself will be against the basic law. The problem with the legislation of the referendum is not merely what was presented in the rather surreal blocking scenes, and about which Ilona Pálffy, as my fellow Member Mr Dúró mentioned just now, almost demanded that the judicial wallet act. You didn't do that. Here, too, the Secretary of State is accountable for the delay in the judicial portfolio in the last year when the president of the NTI clearly indicated what problems there were. But that's not the only problem. The LMP called a five-party meeting after the NTI scandal, which the Hungarian Socialist Party boycotted for me for a mysterious reason. All the elements that deprive citizens today of the substantive right to actually convey their will are directly affected by decisions of public importance. What's this about? At this meeting, it was considered that the application of completely unjustified stricter rules in the case of local referendums than in the national referendum, the threshold of initiative should also be reduced to 5% and 15% respectively, as defined in the local regulation. Democracy will simply be felt if people are given the right of say as easily as possible so that they can influence the decisions of the most empathetic and transparent living environment. That is why the institution of the local referendum must be facilitated. We have also initiated the return of the institution of the popular initiative to its rights. I must also point out that Hungarian democracy, but it is safe to speak in a broader sense that traditional XX. The fundamental legitimacy problems of centuries' democracies stem precisely from the fact that today these institutions suffer a constant loss of authority, if people cannot live every day, week after week, month after month, that decisions that are made above their heads are not made without them. It is in the primary interest of all democracies to facilitate and increase the effectiveness of institutions enabling citizens to participate directly. The people's initiative is also needed so that people can see that the parliamentary agenda can be adapted according to their will. In addition, the LMP proposed that, if we have already touched the referendum law, we should provide for the settlement of the most basic campaign rules for local and national referendums. Contrary to what my fellow Member Bárándy says, I do not think that in the last 25 years, when there was a referendum at all, they would have taken place under fair conditions. Let us recall that even in the dual referendum in 2004, but also in such crucial matters as in the referendum on NATO and EU accession, power simply prevented different views from being set on an equal footing. There was a referendum where I was the activist of minority opinion, and I know very well that they tried to silence the opposite opinion by means of power. We are proposing, at least, to create a framework to ensure that conflicting views are given approximately equal weight in the media and that campaign instruments are provided. [[11.00]] For the record, Gergely Gulyás, who appeared to me to be open to these proposals on behalf of Fidesz, was not covered by the government proposal. What my colleague Bárándy said about the regulatory constraints, for example, how the time limit for the decision-making of the Curia can manipulate or influence the success of the initiatives, I fully agree. I do not want to repeat this, otherwise our proposal also mentioned this. However, if we are already at the end of February, we cannot go without saying the role and composition of the NVB, the National Election Committee. The members of the National Election Committee and of the National Election Committee have arrived on two channels since the change of regime. There are, aren't there, so-called party delegates, and besides, the National Assembly directly delegates and sends people to the Election Committee. Those elected by the Parliament are assumed to be their function, if you like, to be independent experts in controlling the purity of the elections. What did we see compared to that? In a completely incomprehensible way, their mandate has been extended for nine years, and let us be perfectly clear: you have filled the NVB with party activists. Those good people you sent in, you have to look at their biography, they were electoral activists, local election committee members. Aren't their eyes going to shine? These people are told to be impartial? What happened in the National Election Committee over the last few months is a direct consequence of Fidesz activists being brought in there. Fidesz activists were pushed there, and therefore the LMP proposal also covered the fact that, on the one hand, it was completely unjustified to set the mandate of the NVB members for nine years; it is logical that, after every parliamentary election, as it was for 25 years, the members of the National Election Committee elected by Parliament should be re-elected. Secondly, if we expect the members of the NVB elected to operate impartially, then let us say a clear conflict of interest, for example between the former electoral commissioners and the member of the party-delegated election committee and the NVB membership. This is where the old part of the wheat partes. If you really want clean relations, you will accept this proposal. If you want to continue puppeting the National Election Commission and machinating, for example, the success of referendum initiatives, then you have good reason to keep the current national electoral committee members. Dear Parliament, In the proposal, I continue to miss the fact that it must be clearly touched - and this also requires a fundamental amendment - on what we think about the relationship between direct and indirect democracy. As opposed to the whole constitutional concept of the last 25 years, we believe that LMP believes that a hierarchy between direct and indirect democracy cannot be established, we deny that indirect democracy is superior to direct democracy. There, and if it is possible for citizens to directly intervene in decisions that concern them, well-informed, there must be an opportunity for direct democracy. Direct democracy is the local and national referendum, it is the local and national popular initiative, but there are also a number of other instruments known in the world today, as citizens, whether by means of civic councils or, for example, there are examples in large cities of local development plans being defined with the participation of local people in the community. This also implies that we are not thinking in excluded referendum matters, but that we would reverse the logic: in some cases it is mandatory to issue a referendum. This is the case in the Constitutional Concept of the LMP, which was presented at the beginning of 2011, when it comes to amending the basic law or closing the constitutional process. But in the same way, we would ideally require a referendum, for example, if there were marketisation of public services. We say, learning from the Hungarian and international examples of the past 10-15 years, that if and if a government wants to throw different public services, it is mandatory to ask people about this. Dear Parliament, To sum up, I can say that if the amendments tabled by the LMP can be heard, and all that my fellow Member Bárándy has said here about the rules of procedure in relation to the procedure of the Curia, then this proposal alone may be eligible. However, I would also like to note that this proposal is merely intended to ensure that Fidesz tries to escape the shame at the end of February, trying to keep what happened at the end of February from happening. In this regard, I can tell you that regardless of the fate of this bill, you are accountable and accountable to Parliament and the people for what happened, who sent these thugs there. And it's not a slip of the tongue, what I just said: if that doesn't happen, there will also be accountability in 2018. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-13-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, as an independent Member is not in the Chamber at the moment. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond very briefly to my fellow Member Schiffer's speech, otherwise going forward, that I fully agree and share his opinion with the vast majority of what he has said. However, two things need to be corrected. First of all, Mr Group leader, I have never said that everything was under fair conditions in relation to previous referendums. 'Cause that's what you want me to credit for, but read back the report, I did write it down. I said that according to the current rules, there would have been two valid and effective referendums over the last 30 years, and in the past period, since this rule came into force, there has not been a valid and effective referendum. That's all I'm saying, and that's all I'm saying about the past. The lack of participation or participation in the five-party community has come up many times on our part. Mr. Team Leader, don't understand the attitude we had at the time as a form of isolation. You ended your speech by writing that Fidesz is trying to escape the events of February. That's right. We have also assessed and interpreted that the events that started at that time are about Fidesz trying to flee forward, trying to make forward-looking proposals in order to change the law so that no more can happen, and the rest, instead of trying to investigate the events that happened at that time. We have interpreted and assessed that I would like to point out that, willfully, unwittingly, I would like to point out that LMP is also supporting this effort with that five-party agreement. By the way, we would be happy to support the proposals that Mr. Group Leader has said, but we would not want and would not have wanted to give a passport then, there, at that time, to allow Fidesz to flee from being held accountable by such means. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer has also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-13-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear colleague Bárándy, Here's the thing. Of course, we agree that the whole story was two months ago about Fidesz trying to get away with it, and they noticed that one of their leading men was a little over-moveable when this scene was staged. But I think we need to decide who wants what and who thinks what is fair and acceptable. On the one hand, we say that what Fidesz is doing is not fair, that they are trying to undo all kinds of legislative tricks about shame at the end of February. It's one thing. However, I do not consider it fair to use this NTI scandal at the end of February, let us say, the Hungarian Socialist Party merely to maximize the political benefits of the moment - let us speak openly and clearly! LMP says that in this situation, the priority is to use this crisis precisely to restore the institution of the referendum, to give people back the real and substantive right to interfere with the fate of the country. This is the situation we wanted to take advantage of. We did not look at the political benefits of the moment alone, but at how to restore the institution of the referendum and popular initiative, taking advantage of this situation. Unfortunately, you weren't partners in this, that's what the story is. Thank you very much. [[11.10]]
u2016-04-13-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group, for a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-13-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We oppositionians have a good argument here. Looks like it's casting again. At the same time, I would like to say that the events in February really encouraged everyone to create different political and professional responses. So it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, as I said in my previous speech, that I think it is indisputable. As early as last year, in July 2015, the President of the NVI indicated these problems, but you did not present any proposals, even though the Minister of Justice was called upon to make concrete legislation by the President of the NTI, and this did not happen months after that. There are many other ways, including within the parliamentary framework, to talk about these events, and to investigate whether responsibility or professional solutions or proposals are presented. One of these is the amendment of the law, which is now in front of the House, the LMP has also tabled such a amendment, the MSZP, and we also have proposals. We initiated an investigation committee to investigate events at NTI, supported by MSZP and LMP, but for some mysterious reason Fidesz did not support it. The five-party negotiations are also, in my view, an absolute set of instruments in which participation in politics, I think, should have been made clear from a professional point of view on the part of the MSZP. But the Secretary of State doubted a little bit when I spoke about the interests of Ákos Erdős in my previous speech, so I would like to draw your attention to further contexts. Ákos Erdős's 2010 change of government did not cause a break in his orders, as I mentioned earlier, in the parliamentary, European Parliament and municipal elections in 2014, without open public procurement, his company was practically secretly appointed. But it wasn't enough, because imagine what God gives, his company could also prepare questionnaires for the national consultation on immigration and terrorism for living. So so far, the government and NVI believed that both the 2014 electoral ballots and the national consultation questionnaires were prepared by the company Ákos Erdős, who bought the National Textbook Publisher in 2005 under scandalous conditions. After that, Mr Secretary of State believes that there is absolutely no basis for what I am saying, and I cannot even suspect that if you have found his company fit to draw up the questionnaire for the national consultation, then the signature collection sheets will then not be prepared by his company in the referendums. Mr. Secretary, did you make the wrong decision or are you going to make the wrong decision now? If you make this regulation, changing the NTI President's proposal to collect signatures only on the signature collection sheets certified and accepted by the NTI, this does not, I repeat, have professional and logistical reasons. There can be only one reason, but this does not reduce or even increase costs for the State, since civil society organisations have so far borne the costs of reproduction. Yeah, they take it away, lighten it up, and logistically make it harder, I'll add. So so far, costs are reduced, logistics and organizational tasks are carried out, making virtually the whole collection of signatures unviable, as about 220,000 copies should be recorded in the NVI by the person who initiates these signatures, since based on the current signature collection sample, 8 signatures can fit on one sheet. So the questionnaire of the national consultation could also be produced by Ákos Erdős, the ANY, whose supervisory board member was Tamás Sárközy, a lawyer who was government commissioner at the time of Medgyessy and then at the first Gyurcsány Cabinet, and from 2008 he became administrative consultant of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] Former Fb member of the company István Stumpf, former Chancellor, current judge of the Constitution, but now his brother János Stumpf has taken his place. Péter Heim was a member of the Board of Directors of the company until 2011. Do you know who Peter Heim is? Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. Chairman of the Board of Directors. But to let you know that Ákos Erdős is a very old rider in politics, I would add that the Hungarian Orange published an article on the fact that Sándor Pintér was assisted by Erdős when he was relieved of his position as Chief Police Officer during the Horn administration. Ákos Erdős was the one who then encouraged Sándor Pintér to set up a private company in which the State Printing House joined. (Dr. András Schiffer: Wow!) So Ákos Erdős is also one of the examples of corruption in the 25-year-old governance of the MSZP and Fidesz. I ask why such a person is given orders related to, for example, the production of national consultation questionnaires. István Hollik just left the room. By the way, if it hadn't worked out, I'm not sure I'd have said that speech yet. During the debate on public education, he spoke of it with incredible aggression... [[István Hollik enters the Chamber. Intercoms: he's back! Dr. Gábor Staudt: Meeting with Péter Juhász!]] - Thank you for coming back - he talked about how shameful he was, the way Ákos Erdős bought the National Book Publisher. That was really shameful. Flame Inc., another interest of Ákos Erdős [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: What show are we on?]] in the second round, you could make a HUF 690 million lower bid than the initial offer, with which you won [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: What show are we watching?]] the purchase price was HUF 3.2 billion. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: You can argue about this, only for what!]] , although it was more favourable than Ákos Erdős - but the offer was declared invalid, so Ákos Erdős could buy it at the time...
u2016-04-13-34	Madam Congresswoman, I would like you to return to the original agenda, with all due respect, in your repeated speech. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what you're talking about!]] it is very important, it must be very important that these be said, but that is not what the debate is about. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Not the National Book Publisher!]] This could affect the course of the debate, and he had plenty of time to tell me. Now, with all due respect, I'm asking you to return to the bill. [[Róbert Répássy: Ákos Erdős has not yet initiated a referendum!]] I would like to ask Mr Répássy that, if he wishes to speak, others are waiting for a two-minute comment, press the two-minute button. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: This is his political program!]] Congressman, I'm warning you. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-13-35	Thank you, Mr. President. In connection with my previous speech, Minister of State expressed doubts that NVI would use this company to produce these signature collection sheets, and that is why I am trying to prove to him and confirm my suspicions, and I have therefore tried to present these mergers in such detail. Moreover, that is not what the President of the NVI has proposed. So it wasn't that the president of the NVI suggested that these signatures be produced by the state, the president of the NVI didn't suggest this, but you consciously changed the proposal of the president of the NVI, knowingly changed it. The practice of the Orbán government to date in relation to printing activities was what I described earlier. That is why I would like to know why, because I do not see a professional reason for this, so that only signatures can be collected in a referendum on the signature collection sheets issued by the NTI. It is unviable, it makes the logistics of civil society organisations extremely difficult, and the cost reduction they refer to is not real. Such a social need has so far not reached us or the government by civil society organisations or parties; civil society organisations have not indicated that so far it has been a problem to copy signatures. No! These are not valid reasons, these are not arguments which make it easier to collect signatures, but from what they have done so far it can be concluded that the real reason is that this company should continue to be the one [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: They run a payout!]] Without open public procurement, without open public procurement, you can win these printing orders from NVI and the government on the basis of the shares of foreign companies and national security interests. I very much hope that this will not be the case, and I ask the Secretary of State to reassure me without doubt in this regard. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the proper speeches. I would like to inform the two-minute speakers that when the round goes down - and there are two other speakers who have applied for a proper speech - I can only give them a two-minute speech afterwards. It is now for Congressman Imre Vejkey of the KDNP Group. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Take it hard!]] [[11.20]]
u2016-04-13-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the platonic questions raised by András Schiffer, I have the following answers: I will inform my fellow Member that Ferencváros has a reputation, and I therefore ask him to be more careful about his assumptions in the future. On the other hand, speaking of Fradi, as a fellow countryman who loves sports and football, I congratulate you on your 29th championship victory. Thirdly, the question raised by my incomprehensible fellow Member regarding Mrs Erdősin, as I would like to inform my colleague András Schiffer that Mrs Erdősin's referendum question has not been verified. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-13-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next to speak again from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be involved in this debate, which is being held here by Congressman Schiffer and Imre Vejkey, but if I understand correctly, not by Fradi, but by bald people. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Okay, fine. Then I understood the matter well. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, as far as its merits are concerned, I do not think that, although we can, of course, do and we can give this pleasure to the parties of government, that we are arguing with each other, so I would react very briefly, Mr Schiffer, to what you have said. Yeah, I'd love to, because it would be a shame to leave you in the air. The reason why politicians are so experienced, though, is that they know that if there is a topic that takes attention away from something more important, then it is useful and good for those who want this attention removed. In the event that you stand on exactly the same track as Fidesz did, instead of investigating this case, instead of saying what happened there and who is responsible for it, that we still do not know where the procedures are in this case, for example - if you know something about it, I would be glad to know who is responsible for these events within Fidesen, but who will be able to make better proposals for the future, and I stress, not today, but then, in that situation, it will not help us to find out this matter or to succeed in this endeavour. We didn't want any part of this - that's all. I'm sure you understand that. And you may disagree with him, but I would be happy if we could finally get off the subject, just because then we have two different opinions about this, and it is completely unnecessary to repeat it to the point of God. The other thing I wanted - to address this to the Secretary of State. I saw that he was keenly taking notes and shaking his head when we talked about the government knowing about these problems for a very long time, and the president of the National Election Office had already drawn the attention of the Minister of Justice to this, and I would like to add another element. There were a number of forums where not only the Minister of Justice, but also the President of the Parliament's Legislative Committee, was also a debate partner, and the president of the NVI presented his proposals in these forums, a good part of which you are currently not accepting. Then I would really like to know why Mr. Secretary of State is shaking his head when these sentences are spoken, because either we and the press are wrong about a huge one, and Minister Trócsányi or the then Secretary of State didn't know about it, they didn't read the press, they didn't get to you the request of the President of the Election Office, or it's something else that I can't figure out right now. In this regard, since it has been a tradition from the judicial portfolio so far, and Minister of State Répássy has always done so in his time to take part in the debate, unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State has given up a bit or did not take up this old style, I would ask that we not go back to the situation that we had in the electoral procedural law at the time, that there was a 7.5-hour debate, a 7.5-hour debate here in the House, and that the secretary of state sat through this debate without squeaking, but wanted to state his position in the closing. Then, of course, because he did not know the Rule of the House, so, let's just say, he carved on it, because it was not his closing, but the author's, and so the debate was opened again, from which a normal debate finally arose, but he sat here for 7.5 hours without speaking, and that was not uncommon in the past period. So I would ask the Secretary of State to do me the favor of taking part in the debate and expressing his arguments now, because we would probably like to respond to it, unless we are so convinced by his speech. I'm just saying, otherwise, if this doesn't happen, I won't be honouring Mr. Secretary of State by waiting for his closure, but by leaving. What I would like to ask, however, is that we have had a specific question, and Mr Schiffer has also pointed out that it does not create, in spite of the exclusion of the problem of competing initiatives to date, the current regulation does not or does not create a level playing field, because it is indeed true, that there may be a referendum initiative that the NVB validates, there is something that it does not, and there is the Curia's decision to wait for you to resolve this problem; whether you are inclined to adopt an amendment in which we will resolve this in some way, for example, by drastically shortening the deadline for the Curia, or by issuing referrals in all cases where the Curia decision has been taken in these proceedings. So technically, I can say that we are completely open to this, but this is just a problem that does not extend beyond the very narrow circle that is enshrined in this law, but it will already seem to be a problem, and it will clearly give rise to abuse, because it is obviously a question of perception and attitude, who thinks, what Mr Schiffer said about the composition of the NVB. I share it, all the more so, because the events of the past period have shown me what absurd decisions have been taken by accident by those who have been included in the National Election Committee in this way, with such a past that they have entered the National Election Committee. But in the event that, say, such a question is raised, or this problem will arise, then inevitably, I say now, everyone will accuse the National Election Committee of wishing, say, the beginning of a referendum initiative, that it would be nice to him, say, Erdősine - to name it - to validate his application, not the other request, so that he should go to the Mansion, and therefore he will suffer, let us say, the 90-day disadvantage in collecting signatures. This charge will inevitably arise, and that is the problem. So I think if we just stayed in this circle, it would be worth at least dealing with this problem. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. The first from the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer Group leader.
u2016-04-13-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Répássy, I would like to clarify the connection between Ákos Erdős and the bill before us. You know, the connection that we've learned in six years that it doesn't matter whether it's a fight against smoking, it's terrorism, it's a referendum, you're always thinking the same thing about everything; gempa - so how much you can pull off the story. That's what this is all about. It was clear from the proposal of the President of the NVI that the specimen should be issued, that the specimen should be issued by the President of the NVI, but that they could otherwise be photocopied. What, though, is the point of requiring that only pre-printed numbers be used to collect referendum recommendations? If it isn't the fact that there's another backup solution with one of the big bucks on the caviar left, right now with Ákos Erdős, that they're getting a little business? Isn't that what this is about? That is why my colleague Dóra Dúró brought up this whole business. [[11.30]] Confess. Please state that there is a business interest behind this proposal, since this rule is obviously not justified on a professional basis. That's not what the president of the NVI suggested. Once again, what we have seen in a row about various laws is that you are not interested in solving a problem, but that you are interested in pushing a small chip out to different oligarchs, and once every light year, you can not only give orange oligarchs, but also give your old caviar left-wing business partners a small chip. Isn't that what this is about? Answer that. Answer that. And I would suggest to my fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, that, of course, he does not attack Ákos Erdős too much because, in the end, they will have an idea and they will transform the rules in such a way that Andrew G. Vajna or the gasman of the nation has the right to print referendum recommendations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-42	The next two-minute speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi of Jobbik.
u2016-04-13-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Vejkey's speech. I was very pleased to hear Congressman Vejkey mention that we are trying to preserve the reputation of Ferencváros. I'm asking you to help me, because you're closer to the government, so that this can happen, so that you can't hire criminals or former criminals in an association with such a reputation, so that you can't use these people, say, to protect the Fidesz House, when protesting or scandals at NTI, and you can't send bald people from this neighborhood. It is indeed important that we do not degrade the operation of such a well-known association. And it's part of a good reputation: I'm happy for the 29th championship. It means that I was happy with the 27th and 28th, and with me at that time at the stadium and around the stadium, twenty thousand people were happy, and today after the 29th championship, 15 people were present in the stadium area. They celebrated the 29th Championship. It's part of a good reputation. I think it's unfortunate, but if you see that this needs to be changed, it's a forward-looking state. So I would also ask you to help us maintain and restore the reputation of Ferencváros, because in recent times, this reputation has been quite badly damaged. Thank you again for this speech. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-44	Thank you very much. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Répássy Róbert is next.
u2016-04-13-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologise for the fact that, like others, I warned the speakers aloud to get to the point. But that's not why I basically asked for the floor. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is, of course, an important question to discuss which printing press prints the electoral documents. However, it is beyond discussion that both electoral and referendum documents contain sensitive personal data and that the purity of the electoral right justifies caution. The solution challenged by Dóra Dúró, and also by Mr Schiffer, Head of the Group, according to which signatures and initiatives can only be collected on the sheets certified by the National Election Office, otherwise gives a detailed reason for the justification of the bill, because this is the only way to guarantee that personal data will all be returned to the National Election Office. Therefore, all the collection sheets must be accounted for by the initiators of the referendum. I would also like to draw attention to one more thing: printing contracts relating to electoral or referendum documents do not fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice, so that when Dóra Dúró first called on the Minister of Justice why such or such public procurements were created, it is a fundamental mistake, because it is not even the government's competence to provide printing for electoral documents, but falls within the competence of the National Election Office. And the National Election Office can only be asked in writing by the congresswoman as to why that company was selected in public procurement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the MSZP Group will be followed by Mr Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-04-13-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In response to Mr Répássy, I would like to say that I think that it is not the authenticity of the paper that is important in the first place, but the signatures on it. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right, that's right!]] On the one hand, whatever certified paper it is, first of all, it can be photocopied brilliantly before someone brings it back to the Election Office, so data security in this regard is nothing greater than any other time. On the other hand, if I remember correctly, for example, in the criminal proceedings where they investigate the suspicion of electoral fraud, where the signatures of Fidesz 1500 were transferred to the recommendation sheets of other fake parties, there were also verified newspapers. So on certified pages, this kind of fraud is just as easy to commit, and data security is no greater. So, indeed, there is no single argument in favour, and probably the head of the Election Office did not accidentally suggest the other solution, so that each sheet should be certified. Simply, if anyone can give me an argument other than the fact that copying doesn't cost money to someone who, let's say, initiates a referendum, if someone can make an argument that makes it better, then I really do lift my hat to him, which otherwise doesn't. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-48	Thank you very much. Dóra Dúró and András Schiffer are waiting for a two-minute speech. The House Rule does not give me the opportunity, once again, to give the same faction another two-minute opportunity to speak. If there is no proper speech, I cannot speak at the same time, because I have given them both the opportunity to speak again. So they're draining that, too. [[Dóra Dúró: But the Barondy also spoke twice.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-04-13-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify some of the data, and I do not want them to be a debate, and I also thought that in the end we could clarify these things. It has been said that there has not been a valid and effective referendum in recent years. There is only one simple reason: the 200,000 signatures have not been collected in the past period, which would have been necessary to launch this. So to resent the fact that the regulation would not be good... you have to jump this threshold, but no one has contested it. Comments were made on the Mansion decision. I think the Curia has decided sooner than 90 days, so it could actually be decided after a longer debate to shorten this period. There have also been criticisms of the National Election Office and the National Election Committee. Technically, they're not government subordinates, they're government-controlled organizations, so that's all I can say about that. My colleague Dóra Dúró mentioned that the national electoral office proposal package last summer was also discussed in five parties during the autumn, and I invited the representatives of the parties myself. This was later extended to include the type of proposal that already applied to the administration. But then, we remember well, the MSZP refused to participate in the five-party conciliation, and only one technical amendment package was adopted in the negotiations with the representatives of the parties. Therefore, the scope of questions relating to electoral procedure and suffrage has not been discussed more widely, so we have not been able to discuss this issue either. [[Dóra Dúró: Haven't you been able to discuss it since June last year?]] These are two-thirds laws, which requires parties. The current proposal is also a narrow proposal, since there is a certain consensus in this, and I thank the representatives of the parties who have spoken in the debate. So that's acceptable. Any further questions that we open would make it difficult to adopt the proposal and prolong the debate. [[11.40]] But the proposals submitted by the NVI, the Election Committee, are, of course, in the Ministry of Justice, we will review them, and if a new package of amendments can be drawn up from this consensus, acceptable by five parties, it will be able to come to the House later on, so we are open on this issue. With regard to the arches, why they are so strict: practically legally they share the same fate as those in the elections, so they can be tracked, and in all disputes, they can be closed. And technically, I believe that my fellow Member Répássy has also mentioned public procurement matters, they are not the Ministry's jurisdiction, and such specific matters, I believe, cannot be dealt with during the debate on this bill. There are interpellations and other possibilities for those who consider this to be offensive, they may also initiate other official procedures. Thank you again for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-13-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2012 CLIX on postal services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9785. and the background material of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-04-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The amendments to the Postal Act before you cover provisions that make the operation of the Posta reasonable and make changes favourable to citizens. Some of the provisions of this amendment extend the range of items which can be mailed free of charge by visually impaired persons, and other amendments make it possible to cooperate with the electronic administration. The Post Office spends a lot of time, money to move with age, more and more services to electronic travel. These include, for example, the new electronic mail tracking service, the QR code check payment or the installation of check machines. The motion before you therefore aims to support this work, and even requires Posta to use such technologies. I just want to give you an example. On the basis of the amendment of the law, the citizen may also provide the delivery label for luggage vending machines at the time of delivery. Therefore, in order to provide customers with a modern service, the motion also performs minor fine-tuning and clarification in a number of other places. At the same time, there is no doubt that the most important point in the public interest of the proposal is where we want to create the possibility that Magyar Posta may hand over the service of postal customers to financial institutions for a service fee. Given that this motion has triggered it, it can trigger the greatest public interest, so I would like to give you more details on this. It is known to everyone, I believe, that the otherwise successful activities of the Post Office are being made difficult by a number of challenges. Demand for traditional postal services has decreased not only in Hungary but also in Europe. In postal mail, the decline we are talking about, which we have to count on, is an average of 5 per cent per year, but in other traditional postal areas there is also a decline. The whole process of postal liberalisation contributes to this. From now on, opening up the market for consignments of less than 50 grams means that the post office must compete in all areas where it used to have a very comfortable monopoly position. It is therefore not only the government's political responsibility, but also its legal obligation to seek and find answers to all these challenges. The responsible management of national assets has given us the obligation to establish a new strategy for Posta, and Posta has started operating along a new strategy. As part of this, it has concluded new partnership agreements and has expanded to the market. It has been published in the field of financial services, has successfully developed its logistics, parcel delivery activities and has also been involved in the service of national utilities. The other part of the strategy is internal efficiency gains and rationalisation. I do not say that the process that has already started and that makes an old grey large company more flexible, more prepared, more modern, can happen overnight, but much has already happened in the area. Let me give you just one example. In recent years, Magyar Posta has reduced the central number in Budapest by 25 percent. Based on a modern management approach, he has adapted the processes of work organisation: from informatics to vehicle fleet, he has started replacing expensive and outdated technologies. And as part of this consistently undertaken strategy, the government is now proposing this amendment, which lies before you, so that postal services can also be carried out by financial institutions contracted with the Post where the use of the mailbox is extremely low. Personal administration in post offices is constantly losing ground, whether it is a check payment, mail delivery or a stamp purchase. This is why there are small mails in the country that are visited on average by 10 customers per day, up to 20 customers per day. This means that employees in these offices can perform all the activities in a total of up to 1, specified 2 hours a day. The operation and necessary modernisation of these small mail is a huge cost. At the same time, it has already been mentioned, the state must not only operate efficiently and cheaper at the level of public administration, budgetary bodies and administrative institutions. Reasonable and cost-effective operation is also expected in relation to public companies. Accordingly, our current proposal is another step towards state reform and bureaucracy reduction. We recommend operating a system where citizens can use more services in one place and at the same time more than usual, as well as small post offices, in a more comfortable and modern environment than previously experienced. Dear Parliament, Almost ten years now, since the transfer of postal services to another party has become good practice in Hungary, there are still about 300 postal operators where private companies or municipalities work on behalf of the state postal company. The customers don't notice any of this, so the model is now working well. This proposal, which we have presented to you, is, in fact, the completion and/or continuation of this programme, but I also think that this type of activity at a credit institution or credit institution is likely to provide more, better and more convenient services to customers. I would just like to briefly point out that there are also examples of how postal services are operated abroad: Germany, Austria, Greece, Portugal, the United States and I could list them. Dear Parliament, If the bill or amendment is adopted, we will be able to start the work by mapping the mailboxes concerned and, following the completion of this work, taking account of which credit institutions and credit institution partners can be agreed. [[11.50]] There are three reasons why we now believe that the savings cooperative sector is most involved in this networking. First, I'd like to say the geographical features. Most of the savings cooperatives with 1500 branches have offices and branches in small settlements where postal traffic has grown dramatically, so it is here that savings and mails work together. There are about 500 settlements under 2000 where besides the post office there is also the savings cooperative. I would note only in parentheses that there are 17 municipalities where postal services are no longer available, but there is a savings cooperative. The second argument I would like to make to you is that if postal services are provided by various savings, Magyar Posta and the State can win indirectly. By transferring this activity, Posta saves not only a certain cost that includes renovations, modernisations and operation itself, but will also benefit from a part of the service fee, as Posta is now interested in the good performance of the savings cooperative by means of cross-ownership. As a third argument, I can tell you that cooperation in this direction already has historical traditions in our country. There was an example of it in the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century, the Hungarian Royal Postal Savings Bank was established, and then, during this period, cooperative credit institution services were in the post office. At a later date, Article XX shall be replaced by the following: During certain periods of the 20th century, there was a reverse situation when postal services could be used in savings. Technically, we want to revive and restart this coordinated operation, a mixed model. After the government formation in 2014, when our State Secretaryship was established, we started to deal with it, and we have repeatedly said how important it is to take advantage of the synergies we consider to be used, to harmonise the benefits that come from the cooperation of the various large networks. This amendment of the law gives us the opportunity to do so right now. Once again, I would like to emphasise that if the legislative framework allows us to do so, then we will begin the work of mapping the mailboxes concerned and drawing up a timetable based on the lessons learned from this. I would also like to point out that it is not a coincidence that we are talking about credit institutions in the proposed amendment; we are doing this because we will, of course, negotiate with every credit institution that has an interest in cooperation and wishes to be part of this process that I have just told you about. Another question is that, as I have mentioned, it is simply a gift that small settlements that are now concerned with are primarily savings cooperatives and not commercial bank branches. Finally, allow me two more thoughts to tell you. We believe that, apart from the fact that Posta has been a company that has been operating for a century and a half, we are talking about an important service provider that is one of the largest employers in the country, with a staff of about 30 thousand people and a daily contact with millions of citizens, so it doesn't matter what happens to this company. We consider it very important that a situation should not arise under any circumstances so that we have to eliminate services and/or reduce service standards in various rural small towns. What is also important, I would like to mention that, precisely because of the importance of this issue, Minister János Lázár has called a five-party meeting on the situation and future of Posta, where we have also told participants about the results achieved by Magyar Posta so far, and what are the ideas that, in addition to networking, have yet to be formulated for the near future. The parties to the consultation and the parties to the consultation considered our motion to be eligible. I ask you to vote in favour of the amendment proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-52	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. 15-15 minutes in a time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government submitted the 2012 Postal Services Act on Postal Services. CLIX. a bill amending the law, within which a number of positive amendments will be made to postal services, in particular to disadvantaged consumers. Given that the Secretary of State has presented the bill in full, I will highlight only a few small details from the bill. I think it is important to state on the bill that it does not impose any new obligations on the Posta, it only provides an opportunity to reorganise the network structure of the mails in order to further improve the quality of the service and, if justified, to use the assistance of the financial institutions, i.e. for a service fee, certain financial institutions can perform postal tasks in certain municipalities. I would like to stress that there is no disadvantage for consumers, at the most they will experience is the need to go a few blocks down the main street instead of the usual post office place. I think it is also very important to say that this measure will not result in the cessation or reduction of the quality of postal services in any settlement, because where there has been a post office, postal services will still be available in a financial institution at the most. Posta can only use this restructuring option in settlements below 10 thousand people. This is also a fact to be mentioned, because I think we can all agree that where there is a maximum of 15-20 inhabitants per day, in some cases even less, it is not necessarily necessary to maintain an independent post office, but at the same time the service must be maintained. This part of the bill is not a unique Hungarian invention, but it is also possible to find well-functioning examples of it in international practice, developed over decades. The special advantage of the bill is that savings cooperatives are typically present in the small settlements concerned anyway, not branches of commercial banks, so cooperation can be easily established. Consumers also visit these savings cooperatives on a number of occasions, as they transmit the financial services already used in large cities in small settlements. In my view, thanks to these optimal restructuring options, Posta will be able to place greater emphasis on further improving the quality of service, which will result in even greater consumer satisfaction, and this will be mutually beneficial for everyone, as it is well known that it is very costly to maintain a large number of post offices. [[12.00]] On the other hand, if this model is developed, where postal and financial services are not reduced but even increased, but operating costs may be reduced, this will be a good solution for all players in the system, including consumers and Posta. Another very important part of the bill is the fact that a number of measures will be put in place to facilitate the lives of blind and poor-sighted people in the use of postal services, as well as a number of measures to improve the quality of Posta services. Given that we are talking about a bill that results in positive changes, both in line with the increase in standards for consumers and in line with the reduction of bureaucracy and the rationalisation of costs for public companies, I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-13-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth. As I give him the floor, I will also hand over the presidency to my vice-president, István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-04-13-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to the remarks of the Secretary of State and the keynote speech of Fidesz, in which they tried to explain the inexplicable in relation to the bill. I'd like to say it's a good try, but they couldn't convince me. The postal law before us shows that we are witnessing, if you like, the privatisation of the outsourcing of postal activities, as a result of which we see postal closures and the dismissal of postmen before us, and we see once again the support of the private business of a well-identifiable Fidesz interest. What you said, Madam Secretary, could be said to be beautiful and good, and indeed to recall historical traditions, we can hear about efficiency and modernisation. This would be acceptable and eligible if this whole process were to evolve accordingly with sufficient transparency and publicity, and so that private interest would not arise, the interest of the FHB group led by Zoltán Spéder, which now weaves across all segments of Posta, not only in relation to the current bill, but also in relation to the investment activity owned by Posta on the basis of previous decisions. Speaking of the discussion, if the Prime Minister's Office and Post had indeed initiated a meaningful consultation with the parties on the future of Magyar Posta in connection with the amendment of the Postal Act, they would have given all the help that the parties would participate in this with prepared and accurate information. Then you would not continue to hide the data of public interest that you have to disclose on the basis of judicial decisions. However, you have abused the good faith of my fellow Members and have used them as a biodecoration in this conciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go to the presentation of my opinion on the bill, let us look at the management data of the last few years of Magyar Posta, because here all the good results were reported by the secretary of state, as well as by Minister János Lázár, about what a huge achievement the Hungarian Post has achieved in recent years and why we are hurting the Hungarian Posta, because as a state company, at least 75% of it produces profits. Minister János Lázár here in Parliament on 29 March said: "In recent years, the Posta has made profits without any state and EU support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So he says it can't be that bad at the Post Office. That's a very nice saying, by the way, but it's not true. Since 2010, Magyar Posta has not paid any dividends, its operating profit is significantly lower than in previous years, while its net sales turnover since 2007 has been almost unchanged in the range of 185 and 195 billion forints, and even the company lost nearly HUF 3 billion in 2012, and its operating losses in 2014 were nearly HUF 5 billion. The current management managed to bring this loss together by giving Magyar Posta nearly HUF 14 billion in state and European Union funding. So it is not true what János Lázár said that it worked here without EU and state aid. Let's get to the state budget, which hasn't been discussed before. I have before me the amendment to the bill amending the Budget Act before the Parliament's Budget Committee on 12 November 2014, according to which the budget granted Magyar Posta HUF 9.1 billion for the reimbursement of the unfair additional burden of the universal postal service provider. According to a prospectus, nearly HUF 4.7 billion was paid as a retrospective compensation, and the remaining HUF 4.4 billion was likely to be paid in September 2015 or the following period. So you are so proud of the Hungarian Post that you have received more than HUF 9 billion in budget support. In addition, Magyar Posta received HUF 500 million as EU support for the postal Agora project, HUF 950 million for the development of a public-credit label register, and HUF 3.2 billion for the development of a hybrid delivery and conversion system, so this statement is not true. Compared to this, Magyar Posta was able to generate operational losses and this management. Meanwhile, more than 3,500 people have been dismissed from the Hungarian Post since 2010. All this performance is rewarded by the government with a significant salary increase in the management, as we learned that while a postal employee receives 1-4 percent wage development in 2016, the CEO received 150 percent wage development, and now receives 5 million HUF monthly salary from the government. In fact, this HUF 5 million is not enough, and in principle, this pay ceiling is not enough for the CEO of Posta, as he takes on a few board or supervisory board posts in addition to his salary, of course not for free, and he can already bring home an average salary of HUF 6-6,5 million from public funds. This is not the end, however, because the senior manager of a public company can assume office in any number of companies in which there is no majority ownership of the state. Magyar Posta, for example, is a shareholder in Takarékbank Zrt. and FHB Kereskedelmi Bank Zrt., and Zsolt Szarka, CEO of both companies, has complied with the request to take up the position, obviously not for free, so he is now looking for 35 times the salary of the average postal worker. The question is only what interests the CEO represents at these board meetings, where he joined the Board of Directors, the interests of Magyar Posta, the interests of the private company or the interests of the Fidesz hinterland. But not only the top executives, but also the mid-level officials received a raise, whose monthly allowance reached half a million forints last year. But under the collective agreement, they couldn't have received any extra money. Three deputy CEOs were the best, with an increase of 1.5-1.7 million forints, their monthly wages have increased to 3.6 million forints, but several mid-level executive salaries have increased by hundreds of thousands. All of this leads to the fact that there are currently huge wage tensions at the Hungarian Post, which is why the postal union is on strike now. In addition, in the news of the past few weeks, we have received a broad view of the scandalous cases that are hanging around the Hungarian Post. We've learned that he hasn't conducted a public procurement procedure for his high-value purchases in years, he has privatized part of his money company and has given up his right to manage. Customers registered in the Post Office and trusting in the Hungarian Post are not contracted with the state company, but with a part of which is also owned by the FHB group. [[12.10]] There are common elements of the case. In all cases, the same well-identifiable fidesz circle appears, as I mentioned, the FHB group linked to the Spéder Zoltán major contractor. And it just doesn't show what's good about this great friendship, privatization, exchange of shares in the 75 percent public-owned Hungarian Posta and its subsidiaries. It can only be seen from these that you are not developing and making the Hungarian Posta more competitive, but acting in the interests of a private group of companies; again, you are putting private interests ahead of the public interest. That is exactly what the amendment before us is about, on the basis of which financial institutions can take over postal services in the case of settlements of less than 10,000 people, and, as we have heard, the Secretary of State has said that these will probably be the savings cooperatives. I understand what the lead speaker of Fidesz said about moving a few streets, but not about closing down the mail; it doesn't say about downsizing; it doesn't say about losing jobs, where it will result in private savings and savings partly owned by the FHB group. On the basis of the bill, not financial services move to the post office, as would be logical, but, on the other hand, savings receive part of the postal services. In November 2014, she spoke of the exact reverse of this, when she said that the possibility of accessing financial services in addition to public services at post offices is important because there is not a savings cooperative branch in all settlements. So just a year and a half ago, you tried to convince the public of the opposite, like you just said when you explained the law. I ask you, why has the concept of government changed? Should private savings, FHB, improve rather than increase the role of public-sector Posta? Ladies and gentlemen, Another problem is that behind the planned postal closures there is no cost-effectiveness calculation. It is not known how much the planned measures will reduce the burden on Posta, how much of the public money Posta will pay to the financial institutions performing the outsourced service, i.e. the majority of private savings cooperatives. Here, the secretary of state also said that she was looking forward to the interest of financial institutions. Couldn't this be announced in a transparent, open tender system, where you can see what public money will be made in order for savings to receive this? That's what the data claim lawsuits I've launched are all about, isn't it? You can see it here, so we don't even understand why the border was drawn at 10,000 people. Out of the settlements under 10 thousand, 1933 are currently permanent post offices and postal partners selected in a public procurement procedure. An example can be given in Bács-Kiskun county 101 pieces, in Pest county 143 pieces, in Tolna county 74 pieces. So why did they pull this off at 10,000 people, which can't be said to be small settlements? If you introduce this by post office and transfer the service to savings in any case, with 3-4 people, up to 3-4 thousand people's jobs are at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, There is another aspect of the legislative amendment in the context of public and private company collusion. This raises security and national security issues, as it can pose a security risk if the Hungarian Posta organises postal universal service activities to a private group of companies in the majority of them. This may be particularly problematic in the current situation, since it is not known under what conditions financial institutions should maintain the service, what may happen in a possible bankruptcy situation affecting the financial institution, because this is what we have seen as an example. Can a possible bankruptcy affecting the financial institution paralyze postal services in most parts of Hungary? We've seen this before, when a private company took a billion forints out of the house, and then disappeared with it, just like in the case of Quaestor. Based on the text of the bill, Magyar Posta and its subsidiaries, which are mostly state-owned and performing public tasks, would use the IT system together with the majority of the privately owned FHB group and the savings cooperatives. Did the National Assembly know about this, or did they have any information about it? What kind of IT system do you use together? What information does this IT system contain? Why do we need a common IT system? What developments had to be made in this regard, who paid for them? Who's doing the development? How much does the Hungarian Post cost to maintain this? Who is responsible for storing the data? So there are many, many questions where, I mentioned, there appears a private interest in this whole beautiful idea, the data and information of which you hide. That is what the Post Law was about, and that is what the court proceedings were about, which I had to initiate to access these data. Until we know and answer these questions, it can only be established that there is a risk of national security in the proposal, and, as I explained earlier, the fate of Magyar Posta is very important to us, the 150 years that this company has shown, and we do not wish to assist with redundancies, private interests, and we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-56	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. The next speaker is the lead speaker of KDNP, Member István Hollik. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-57	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to our substantive opinion on the bill, allow me to respond to the words of Bertalan Tóth before me. The first is perhaps the lack of transparency when a five-party consultation took place with the Secretary of State, the Minister and the CEO of Posta. I took part in this five-party meeting myself. A party was not represented by the MSZP, and it was Bertalan Tóth who did not come to this meeting. Those who were there may even be able to confirm this by my opposition fellow Members, who saw that the CEO of Posta, his management, the Secretary of State and the Minister gave us all the details, and gave us the opportunity to ask questions. So when someone refers to the lack of transparency, the lack of transparency, not coming to such a five-party dialogue, it is, I think, not credible. The congressman says that the Post Office has received EU grants. I say it's very right that you got it, and one by one, every single forint or euro of it has been used for development. Once again, I can say that if you had come to this five-party meeting and listened to the presentation of the CEO of the Posta, you would have seen, for a penny, exactly what these grants were spent on. When my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, tells us to look at the results of the Posta, I can say, or I can tell that the Posta's management has done well. In 2014, contrary to what you said, Posta's post-tax results were 2.8 billion forints, and if you had participated, you could have heard from the CEO that the expected post-tax result of 2015 was nearly HUF 3 billion, positively. And if he had participated, he would have also heard the challenges facing Posta, since mailing, which accounts for almost 60% of Posta's revenue, is constantly decreasing, thanks to the government's attempts and the government's offices, government windows, are also trying to switch to electronic administration. In the past, it was the State itself that generated the largest volume of mail, and therefore, where the mail is sent from which the Posta has the highest revenue, a significant downward trend can be detected. The same trend can be found in the cheque mailing, which represents the second largest revenue for Posta. At the same time, we see that in the recently opened parcel delivery market, which by the way only accounts for 9% of Posta's revenues, Posta was very good, despite the strong competition in the market as a result of the open market. [[12.20]] In this strong competition, Posta can stand and have a 34% share. All in all, therefore, I say that we must come to the five-party meeting, listen to the presentation of the CEO, and then we can formulate questions or criticisms. But if we go a little further back, it is worth seeing what the State Audit Office wrote about the Hungarian Post that worked when you were in the government. In 2011, the State Audit Office published its investigation into what it had found in the framework of an extensive audit for the years 2008-10. The SAO found that Magyar Posta was late in preparing for the opening of the market on 1 January 2013. During your administration, the State Audit Office of the Hungarian Post found that investments, developments and replacements in the asset park had a negative impact on its stock. If you look at it from this point of view, I would say that you should express criticism with proper modesty when you have left an out-of-date Hungarian Post to the current government. For me, the five-party consultation revealed that the Hungarian government is a good owner of the Hungarian Post, preserves the national assets, and the management of Magyar Posta has a clear business and operational strategy, which concerns how, in this business environment and in this market competition, which has now been opened since 2013, it can participate in ways that it can exploit synergies with savings cooperatives in such a way that it can stay on track and perform quality services. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State on behalf of KDNP for the convening of the five-party consultation, which I have found particularly useful. Turning to the bill, I would like to point out why we believe it is necessary to correct this law, but I would not say correction, but rather fine-tuning, and why this gives us the opportunity to clarify the framework. It is clear that in the 2000s, technical progress has broken into our daily lives, and with personal computers and smartphones, communication tools and forms of communication have changed significantly. For this reason, in 2012 the Government of Hungary submitted a new draft Postal Law to this House, meeting the needs of the age, and the 2012 CLIX on postal services. On this basis, the Act entered into force in 2013. At the same time, it can be seen that technical progress has not stopped or even accelerated, and market liberalisation has also created a new environment that has a direct impact on the functioning of Posta. Each electronic technology is constantly becoming more user-friendly, more manageable, thereby accelerating its expansion. Of course, the Post Office must be prepared for this. In 2012, the Government had already established the original draft in line with the European Union's postal regulations in such a way that it could involve these new technologies and gave the Posta the opportunity to rationalise its own operation. A number of technological innovations have emerged over the past three years, and users' experience has also helped to ensure that consumer interests are protected as much as possible by changes and that postal service providers can develop their technology. Thus, the proposal will continue to ensure quality access to postal services and, on the other hand, the renewal of traditional postal services. In view of the above, I would also like to point out that the 2013 CCXXXVII on credit institutions and financial undertakings. The Act allows the law to expand the scope of activities that the financial institution can carry out in a business manner and therefore, in order to better serve the population of small settlements, it is appropriate for financial institutions, in cooperation with the universal postal service provider, to be able to provide specific postal and related services and thus also to function as a permanent postal service provider. The amendment also supports the practice of delivering e-commerce services, which is very favourable to consumers, by means of vending machines. Let's think about the vending machines here. As I indicated earlier, I consider it a great achievement that in this highly rapidly changing market sector, Magyar Posta is able to own 34% of the market. I think this is a very big achievement. I hope that this proposal, which will make life easier for citizens, can count on the support of the opposition despite the criticisms that have been said. I can tell you that the Christian Democratic People's Party faction will accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-58	Thank you very much. Member Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-04-13-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am in a lucky position to participate in and participate in this discussion. It was very instructive, and I have to say that the direction can be supported in many ways, but some of the things that are written down in the law, but the exact figures are not yet seen, need to be clarified. If we have to decide on this proposal, we will probably abstain, but I am very pleased that the consultation has been reached; we should also do so on another subject. And even though the question remains open at one or two points, and the future will decide whether these will be resolved or if new problems will be opened, it was reassuring to me at one or two points. So I am definitely happy about it, and I hope that in the future it will also be possible to meet the leaders of other public companies. By the way, I would have liked to have heard what Bertalan Tóth said there, because the management might have been able to give or deny or admit a more accurate answer to certain things, and then we could decide here in Parliament with more information. I'd go through the proposal. We have also received information from the State Audit Office, in which they virtually support what they have told us there that things have moved in a positive direction in many areas, especially in relation to socialist governments. Of course, in many cases, it's not a base compared to which it wouldn't be possible. The State Court of Auditors briefing, which I have just been able to review, includes the history of liberalisation and the transposition of EU directives and regulations. In parentheses, I note that in many cases the current Hungarian governments could have acted more strictly and decisively in connection with the transposition or adoption of these in Brussels, but that is not what this law is about. The fact that Posta is a national asset of national importance for the national economy is, of course, our testimony. Until 31 December 2020, Magyar Posta is designated to provide universal postal services. We hope that this will continue to be the case, but it must also be done so that the Hungarian Post can do so without losing money and meet the requirements of the new era. We can also learn from the prospectus that Magyar Posta was significantly delayed in preparing for the opening of the market in 2013, and that the development of the national postal policy and sectoral development concept has been delayed since 2007, has not been implemented, nor has the role of Posta in state assets been clarified. These are strong but true words from the State Audit Office. It is one nuance more reassuring that the 2015 follow-up plan has been implemented and 10 out of 11 tasks have been implemented, and one task has become out of purpose. Thank you for this report from the State Audit Office. [[12.30]] And now, with regard to the bill, I would first mention positive things and, secondly, those that raise questions. Of course, proposals that allow, for example, services developed for visually impaired persons and the posting of aids and delivery as mail are eligible for free. You can't get involved in this, I think it's acceptable to everyone. Meeting the challenges of the new age, the expansion of digital letters and, at the same time, the decline in traditional mail traffic is a fact that can be welcomed on the one hand. After all, public authorities should not be able to send letters to each other by post or by mail as little as possible, but to do so digitally, electronically. Of course, this causes the Hungarian Post to lose revenue, which is obviously not to be lamented, but to be compensated. This can be done, for example, on the package market. I am pleased that the leaders of Posta see this, at the moment Magyar Posta is a leader in the parcel market. In the proposal, a number of solutions are added to the possibility of delivery, which can also be implemented through vending machines, and in the case of claims for compensation for the lost package, the recipient can enforce it with an appropriate certificate. It's also a small, but important legal step. The same as the extension of the tracking of consignments. I hope that this includes unrecommended shipments, which is how I understood it, and that more attention will be drawn to the fate of these shipments. In many cases, what was not recommended was dispatched with a return note and disappeared, then it was completely untraceable to see what had become of its fate. By the way, the delivery of packages also reveals a reality of e-commerce. In the future, e-commerce will obviously have more emphasis on trade, and this is where the future will be in Hungary. So the Post Office needs to be prepared to handle these things. Then the electronic documents. Here I understood that this is actually about, although I do not want to make it ambiguous that it is not the classic electronic signature, it is someone who signs it on a digital monitor; I think it could be put that way. Madam Secretary of State nods, so what, let's say, is used by international running services for a very long time, is that it should not be signed on paper, but signed on a digital board, the signature immediately scans and serves as evidence. Of course, we are happy to see that. I don't know when it's gonna happen for mailmen, or just for mail machines. If the postmen had such a device, it would be immediately traceable, even digitally notified by a return card, so it could be a fast, efficient tool in the future, extending the range of services. By the way, it's very good that this goes into the law. At such a depth, I did not consider the need to amend other laws so that, let's say, this could be accepted in court as a return. If that didn't happen, then I think that might happen in the future, since even a few years ago, I met cases where even at the Mansion they didn't know what this electronic solution of DHL was exactly, and whether it could be considered a signature. So with these solutions, I think justice and the application of law can be prepared for the e-world, or that these solutions are in the Hungarian legal order and should be dealt with. So these are also forward-looking. What is not clear to me here, and the direction is clear, I am still waiting for detailed figures, it is cooperation with savings cooperatives in settlements and small settlements - although I am afraid to use this word, because we are talking about settlements of less than 10 thousand people, and that is why a settlement of 9500 people is not so small. Here at the meeting it was shown that in many cases there are hundreds of small post offices where one consignment is sent every day or a package is sent, and their condition has deteriorated. These are clearly facts, and I don't think that's what the Post Office leaders are telling the truth about. Of course, there must be new paths in this, too. One half of it is that those who wish to mail a letter or do postal matters in any way can do so. This half of the requirement may be met by the proposal, since they will have a place to go. I would argue here with my fellow Member Hollik in so far as we didn't get a 100% answer to everything. After all, I asked at the meeting, and I think there is no discussion between us, that we do not yet know in which settlements it will be that the post office will go to the savings cooperative, where the savings cooperative will go to the post office, because that is possible; where will it be possible to take over the postal workers, where it will not be; in what form this will take place, we do not yet see the concrete plans for this. But the point is, even if it is realized, and there is no postal closure anywhere, in that there will be a point where these services can be used everywhere, let us say, towards the population, the principle that these postal points will remain, and that is right. But the other half is that it would be nice to see how many postal workers are fired. It'd be nice to calm them down, too. Because he is responsible as a opposition party, and obviously I don't want to be demagogic that we have to keep the post where there is a letter a day, we have to keep it up, but obviously cooperation is possible there, but we would like to or we could give a yes answer if this is specifically developed. Obviously, we still have the exact draft of this. It may not be possible to put it in a law, I know that, but if, say, we saw a draft, and we could say that this is what the implementation is, then we could reassure either the trade unions or the postal workers, because believe that these concerns and fears are there. These are human things, and they can be understood. But obviously, until we see a guarantee of these, we can only say that the idea can be good, but the development or the precise implementation of this is still ahead of us. I would also like to add that the situation should be avoided or that the situation should be prepared for, if, say, the post office moves to a savings cooperative and that the savings cooperative goes bankrupt. Because sometimes it can't work economically in 1-2-3-4-5 years or at any time. Then can the mail be reopened? Or, I go on, what about the buildings that are temporarily out of use? In many cases they represent a minimum value. I don't have any illusions, small-town post offices are in ruins in many cases, in many cases, say, some employees work there, and they're obviously in settlements where there's often a big city very far away. In these cases we would also like to see them sold here at such a minimum price, or perhaps there is another concept that even if, if possible, you can rent the Posta, because it is better to have a solution to rent them for a lower rent, but not to lose these properties. These are all questions to which even the management of the Post Office does not know the answer, as they are now beginning to develop their depth. We are very confident that if the Post Office has already assessed the detailed possibilities of these, then there will be another conciliation, we can go there and talk about it. We are absolutely ready for any similar arrangement. By the way, as I said, this should go further than other state firms, and where it hasn't been before, it should be introduced. That's pretty much what I wanted to say to the law. [[12.40]] Yeah, one more thing at the end: I asked the CEO about the wage increases, Madam Secretary and Minister of State were there; we would very much like to see higher wage increases, by the way, in the working class, who actually carry the mails on their backs and the Hungarian Post. In fact, my information is that many times for the same money, mailmen get more territory and, where appropriate, they can compensate for the lack of people, which is often because they say they quit because they can't stand it, they can't carry out the tasks or get a better offer in the competition sector. So, if we have indeed raised the management's wage and the reason that we can expect competitive knowledge for such salaries is to extend the same to postal workers and other postal workers, and as these rationalisations are implemented, it would be good to see that in many cases it affects the leaders as well. I have enriched with these experiences at the meeting, which is why we are expected to abstain from the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. An independent Member is not in the Chamber, but Mr Tóth, Member MSZP, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-04-13-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to add one to Congressman Hollik and to Mr Staudt: nearly a year and a half ago, I asked 26 questions to the CEO of the Posta, and I asked him for information about this in the public interest. He rejected this, so we went to trial, so I am currently in a lawsuit with the Hungarian Post and various subsidiaries. Compared to this, a five-party meeting is convened, where questions can be asked. I repeated in writing that I would like to have the answers to the questions I asked a year and a half ago, and I would like to receive the data of public interest from which, say, I can prepare for such a negotiation. I was told that the court would decide whether or not I could get these answers to my 26 questions. Then I ask you whether, for example, you will then go to a discussion on which you will be asked in advance, and you will be informed that you will not receive an answer. Well, I'm not going to a meeting like this. The other thing: I understand that my colleague Hollik has a job obligation to believe everything, but as I heard from his words, the CEO did not boast that the Post Office received HUF 9.1 billion in budget support. So the result here is that they were able to make a profit of nearly HUF 3 billion twice in addition to the need to support the operation of Posta with HUF 9.1 billion of taxpayers' money. EU funds... [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I've got the amendment to the budget bill, all the numbers, I can show you this. Compared to this, Posta's leaders received a brutal salary increase, with public help they achieved these results. Nevertheless, we cannot support the bill on the basis of what has been said. Thank you.
u2016-04-13-62	Congressman Gábor Staudt is next in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-04-13-63	We agree with my fellow Member, Mr Bertalan Tóth, and I said this at the meeting, that transparency is a very important aspect, and we also believe that most of these questions, some of which have also been published in the press, are not covered by the concept of business secrets. It may be because I don't know all 26 of them, of course, but basically they should have been in the direction. Obviously, the amendment to the law that the Constitutional Court has handled in a rather interesting way, if my knowledge does not deceive me, as it may have said that there is no difference in fact from what it has adopted between Parliament and previous legislation, but why have we adopted regulation? So we should clear that up here. It is indeed true - I did not hear this at the meeting - that this nearly HUF 10 billion, which my colleague Bertalan Tóth has said here, has not been said; it has been said that the Hungarian Post does not receive state support, so I think that this is a clarification aspect, since we are already here in the Hungarian Parliament. Of course, you can obviously argue what you get it for, by the time you don't get it, but tax-paying forints can be used to perform universal service, but they migrate. So these are the questions. But otherwise, I would have come if I were my fellow Member, and I would have put these up again. Obviously, I do not want to open a debate in this, but the point is that transparency must work, it is necessary to clarify which taxpayers' forints are included in the Posta system, and I think that the best way to clarify the issues that have been expressed in the same way is to fully or as long as this does not violate the secret of business - a much smaller circle - these answers will arrive, and then you can deny what the operation of the Posta is. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-64	We will continue the work with a speech asking for a normal word. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-04-13-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the idea of a five-party settlement. The experience of the past years has convinced many of us that you want to use these five-party negotiations several times only to legitimise the things you want to dictate for yourself, and if others initiate five-party negotiations, you will avoid it very much. I'll give you an example, so I'm not talking in the air. On the opposition side, for example, with the presence of all opposition parties, there was talk about how and how, what measures should be taken to make progress, for example in sectors of this type, such as Posta, but also in other sectors, in terms of payments. Interestingly, at this five-party meeting, opposition parties were present, and Fidesz and the Christian Democrats - not at random, probably - were not able to appear, probably not only couldn't, but they didn't want to appear. So what I would like to say to you is that all kinds of negotiations, whether they are five-party or not, are justified on the one hand and, on the other hand, effective if the individual initiators try to take their partners on the other side seriously. We tried to do this at the time, but Fidesz and the Christian Democrats had a zero equivalent response, and you, as you have seen, are doing five-party negotiations, but in these discussions, I tell you, they want to legitimise the things they want to dictate, and they do not even want to give answers to the questions that have been asked, as my colleague Bertalan Tóth mentioned. These answers must be presented to Members in a different way. In line with the current draft law, when we are talking about the merger of Posta, FHB and savings cooperatives in quotes, the emergence of private property through the FHB savings cooperative and the enforcement of that so-called dictatorship, I think there are a lot of dangers to be faced. On the one hand, because, as mentioned in Hungary, there are nearly 2 thousand postal services in 1933 settlements under 10 thousand people, but there are not so many financial institutions in these settlements, there are not so many savings cooperatives. If they wish to enforce postal services in financial institutions, this is obviously due to the fact that there are far more postal services in settlements than the number of financial institutions, which will result in the firing of postmen. It's not a random story, because the Fidesz practice confirms it. Since you've been in government, you've been kicking out about 35,000 mailmen. [[Mrs. Lászlón Németh says no.]] I see you've got a secretary shaking your head, and you could nod your head. In 2010, the number of people employed within the framework of Posta was around 34,000, and now it hits 30,000. 3,500 people can be challenged, but the fact is, unfortunately, given. The dismissal of 3500 people in the case of a majority-owned public company, I think, is an act that is not about the implementation of the programme originally indicated by Fidesz, which was about one million new jobs in the economy. [[12.50]] Exactly an opposite process, an opposite trend prevails, while the activity of postal universal service is organised by Magyar Posta's Private Company in the direction of a majority-private group of companies. This raises other problems and concerns. It also puts data protection and other security issues in the crosshairs, for which it is clear that we could now begin to break down into details, that the use of various programs, i.e. IT systems, is how, how, how, their division, financing, many other ways, and how, but I do not want to deal with this part, I really want to touch this story at one point, beyond what has been said. The one point is that, through this draft law, I do not think they provide any assurance, in any way they serve the interests of the people working within the framework of the Post Office. I have to say that the experience of the last six years supports this rather thickly, because when the Posta was placed within the framework of the financial service sector, it was practically a pen stroke at management level, i.e. a monthly fee of HUF 5 million was provided on top. This is equivalent to a salary of HUF 225 thousand a day, while the wages of postal workers and postal workers are in the range between HUF 120 and 130 thousand. So it can be said that on the top of it, they earn roughly double a day, without the additions that my assistant group leader has already told me about. So they make twice a day as much as the mailman's employees, the delivery guys, if any, make in a month. I think that this is a disproportionate difference which is both unprecedented and unacceptable, morally and in other respects. At the same time, workers who obtain not much more than the minimum amount of money - of course they deny the minimum amount of living, not the Posta, but the Hungarian government, do not even register and publish it through the KSH - while these people, I say, carry out this activity for money that does not amount to the minimum of living or, where appropriate, achieve it. So I think that rather, when you are guided by thinking about private property, you should rather think about and act in the direction to represent the interests of the multitude of people who have access to this magnitude of money. You know, if for nothing else, just because when you're talking about 4.2 million people in employment, you're going to have to face the fact that more than half of the people you've registered as employees are working for less than the minimum amount of money. The National Tax and Customs Office accounts confirm that every third person, 1.4 million people, earn minimum wage or less. And unfortunately, this is also true within the framework of the Post Office. In many cases, too, it is true that the amount of income and salaries earned is virtually not much more than the current minimum wage, and not much more than the minimum amount of living. If I were to add to this thinking that if we looked at the minimum wage today, which represents a gross amount of HUF 111,000 - HUF 73 815 net - let's say, if six years ago they paid that much money to a person, HUF 111,000, then what would it mean, or who would have received an equivalent amount, what would it mean, then we would be faced with the fact that it was more than HUF 82 thousand. In English, I just wanted to confirm that you have built a process where people in the low income band have become the losers of the story, not the winners, and, unfortunately, in the majority of the Posta, they are the ones who represent virtually the circle who achieve this level of income. One word, as a hundred, I think that the kind of torso that you gave birth to in relation to the activity within the framework of the financial services sector is marked by the Posta, the monthly salaries of HUF 5 million and the rate of HUF 120-130 thousand for postal workers, which, as I said, is morally unacceptable, and from the other side, steps should be taken to ensure that this change takes place. That's not what you're doing. Instead, what you do is, for example, for those in the income range above HUF 500,000, you pay various benefits to an extent that results in a wage increase of practically 20 per cent for some people and 50 per cent for others, as I said, not for the number of people in the low income range, but for those who earn less. It's amoral what they do or what they give their names to as owners and as state supervisors. One word, like a hundred, I think it would be worth moving in the direction that, in addition to all the transformation processes that are indicated in this draft law, decent wages are guaranteed to provide the basis for people's livelihood. As long as they do not do so, they can talk about any transformation process here, especially one that represents an increase in the profits and returns of private equity through a majority state-owned company. So once again, in relation to the activities of the majority state-owned company, private capital wants to benefit, and you are showing partnership, until then I think that you are not on the path you should go. At the same time, with regard to the quality of postal services in mind over the last six years, it must be seen that there is not an upward trend, a trend, but a tendency which is unfortunately declining, turning back. The other part of the story, which is still worth mentioning, is that if we look at which areas of the country will be primarily affected by the range of possible codeable cuts, we can see that precisely from the context where there are small post offices, so to speak, for settlements under ten thousand people, then I will say: in South Hungary, especially South Transdanubian Hungary, Baranya's involvement is strong in this story, or in North-East Hungary, let's say, from Nógrád to Heves, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, through Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties. What I'm trying to say is that the parts of the country that have been hit have been affected. It is well known that the arm of North-East Hungary and the southern part of Transdanubia are not the most favourable areas in terms of employment policy. The number of small post offices is high here, and the number of financial service providers in these settlements is much less than in other areas. For this reason, the transformation system, the mechanism that you are predicting is that within the framework of the financial services sector, within the framework of savings cooperatives, the implementation of the postal service will directly bring about the fact that, since there are not so many financial institutions, savings cooperatives in these areas, it is automatically a primary step in your brain, but not specifically, that the firing of mailmen is formulated. [[13.00]] Instead of creating a background for paying decent wages, rather than building processes in the most disadvantaged areas that strengthen further impossibilities. I do not think that this is a path that could or should be supported. Therefore, and because of other doubts, we will most likely not be able to support this story. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-67	Over the last few minutes, I've been trying to take note of all the points that I'm supposed to respond to in a relatively short time here. I can only repeat to you that it is a pity that Mr Tóth did not attend this particular meeting, given that the presentation presented there, if my memories do not deceive, took almost an hour. During that time, there was much more to be answered, and I think we have given an answer. I am not saying that there are no questions left after the conciliation, because we have also heard from Congressman Staudt, there are questions left. At the same time, that one hour gave me a lot more opportunity to get an answer to the participants than what we have here, I do not know precisely how much time is available for me, but obviously it is impossible to compare the two things. That's one thing. As a matter of fact, you asked the questions, and in advance...
u2016-04-13-68	Thirty minutes, but you don't have to use it.
u2016-04-13-69	... requested various data in advance, I would like to state that the request for information, the request for data or the request for contracts are not the same as in your proposal. I think that when, as an example, we are talking about publishing a contract concerning information technology, the very thing that is going to come out is that which affects everyone, where appropriate, also the competitors of Posta, about the direction in which the IT development will take place, which will be carried out. Yes, getting to know and publishing this is in violation of the interests of the Post Office. Personal question: in what direction do you want to develop IT, you can answer that question. You can answer without knowing the details and data, of course, as it may be, from such a requested contract. So again, I'm sorry that you didn't participate. I would like to highlight a few things, although I obviously cannot answer all the questions. Firstly, the partner programme: as mentioned above, the Posta Partner Programme has been operating for many years. When the Posta Partner Program was launched, and with various companies, I note that the agreements were also concluded with local governments, I am not aware that anyone had any doubts, whether from a national security point of view or from the point of view of how the contracted partners would perform this task. So we didn't think it was important to tell you that at 300 points in the country, this is already the way it works today. The only difference between the two will be that this is not going to be a local entrepreneur with whom we are contracted, but, where appropriate, a financial institution and/or a savings cooperative. So I don't understand why there would be more questions on this line or why there are more questions now than there have ever been in this connection. That's one part of it. The other part: it was also affected that there was a risk that savings cooperatives would go bankrupt. I would like to emphasise and indicate that once there was an integration law, following the appropriate steps under the Integration Act, a guarantee community, behind which the entire assets of integration, and even a guarantee fund, in which the Hungarian State placed 136 billion, consists of this. It's not gonna happen. We have built a system, we have controls that we cannot talk about savings cooperative failures here for the future. It was the result of a preemptive era when various savings cooperatives went bankrupt and caused all kinds of problems. So to worry that savings cooperatives may not be able to perform postal tasks because they have gone bankrupt, I think it is unnecessary and it can be called excessive. Many times it is said how many people were fired by the Magyar Posta, how much was the downsizing. I would like to say, and this has been said in the prospectus, that natural loss of numbers is the most important part of the difference between 34,000 and 30,000. In recent years, while the Post Office has sent an average of 800 people a year, I say once again: an average of 800 people a year, and the retirees have not been replaced, we have not actually hired any new workers. So that's the total number, the total number you're talking about, that's right, but that's where a significant part of it comes from. That's one part of it. The other part I'd like to indicate. There will be negotiations with the post union, including a meeting tomorrow, but I would like to say a few things to that effect. I'd like to talk about percentages; just in case I'm wrong, allow me to look for this part. So between 2012 and 2016, we are talking about five years here, with more than 35 percent increase in earnings for employees with a rating below HUF 500,000 per month. By the way, it was 21,3 percent, which was basic wage development, and the remaining part, which was paid on various items. Compared to this, it has a basic wage of over HUF 500,000 per month and is not premised, so it is not Mt. In the last five years, there has been no broadband wage development for employees of 208. On average, their earnings increased by 0.7 percent with a single allowance. So that's what I'd like to say. As regards the remuneration of Posta's number one executives, there has been no comprehensive wage development for eight years - some claims. Statement 2: The same applies to Magyar Posta, as to all other public companies, the type of wage structure where the basic wage was maximized and a premium could be added, a reward could be accepted, and this was unified, and we said that from now on, according to the various categories, the wages of the number one managers or their alternates would be this, and that there would be no 80 percent wage development. And as to who has a salary in the public sector, I think, gentlemen, that is a very strange thing, it must be known to everyone that I went back to work with the Hungarian Development Bank in 2010. There I had the opportunity to face the fact that during the eight years that his previous management worked there for the Hungarian Development Bank, what kind of remuneration was it - some of the claims. Statement two: it was a double lead, since one of the CEOs was nominated by MSZP and the other CEO was nominated by SZDSZ, and this was the case for eight years. So I think to talk about it now and to ask that after eight years, we, on the other hand, have arranged the wages of the Posta leaders or the wages of other state leaders, that's kind of a weird thing. I don't usually go into that kind of political gig, but it's all part of the reality. Reality includes talking about IT developments at the Post Office, which cannot be known for its cause or purpose. Here I would like to tell you that in 2012, for example, there were only 312 post offices with direct online connections. [[13.10]] All the others could only work offline. Today, and not today, there are 2173 online mails by 2014. Where is the significance of this? There, when the securities distribution was placed on the flag of the Posta and started, in order to really boost it, it was necessary for Posta to be able to market dematerialised securities. This requires a computer system. How successful we have done this, let me say two numbers: while in 2010 there was 217 billion sovereign debt distributed by Posta, the Hungarian Posta Investment Ltd., which you often criticized. In 2016, I say the number of the first quarter, it sold 429 billion. There is a lot in this, and I could talk about it now - and if my time allows me to say it quickly - that in the current system, with our current partners, the distribution of Hungarian sovereign debt has been given priority. For banking partners who worked together with Posta before this partnership, for example, the distribution of Hungarian sovereign debt was not given priority, both banking partners were primarily marketing their own units at the Posta and were not actively involved in the trading of sovereign debt. After that, I would like to do what I would like to do as a comment. Here they were talking about the number of times that this meant losing a lot of people's jobs. I think so, and, by the way, again at the conciliation, we have flashed some photos of those post offices, the infrastructure that we want to close, so this is about closing them. Savings unions need expertise, we need someone who can go in there and work. You're worried about the ruins here - once again, you should have seen these pictures, you didn't look at them. So, in Hungarian, I think that this will not involve job reduction, because in savings cooperatives, professionals who can provide postal services are needed. They suggested why it wasn't the other way around, for at first I was talking about it as an opportunity. This is indeed true, but in order to do so, a credit institution law would have had to be amended. Obviously, we had to assess the part of infrastructure, IT and other developments that is more rational, whether the first version and the amendment of the credit institution law are more rational, or whether the version that we have just tabled is more rational, by amending the postal law. I'm quite certain that I didn't comment on all the questions right now, trying to sum up the points that I thought were the most important. As a matter of fact, what can be expected in the future: I would like to tell Mr Staudt that, if he is required, we will, of course, also inform you about the processes, as we have said. We are now at the beginning, so I will not be able to give you much data in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-13-70	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XXIX of 2011 amending the Energy Act. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10095. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, who is the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-13-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The primary objective of the bill submitted to Parliament is to establish a system of support for the generation of electricity from renewable sources and in accordance with the EU guidelines, which is characterised by cost-effectiveness itself. If parameters were to be set out in the legislative and key directions, it could be said that electricity is sold on the market in the case of power plants, with the exception of those receiving compulsory take-over, the payment entitlements should in principle be allocated by competitive tendering and the aid should be paid as a premium premium paid above market prices. The method of obtaining the aid depends on the planned production capacities. There are three categories: plants below 0,5 megawatts and so-called demonstration projects, in this case a mandatory take-over system will be established; for medium-sized plants with a capacity of 0,5-1 megawatts, there will be so-called administrative premium aid, without competitive tendering procedure; and for larger plants with capacity above 1 megawatts, premium type aid can only be obtained through competitive tendering procedures, except for demonstration projects of course. Incinerating waste for the production of green electricity will only apply for a premium for the so-called biodegradable proportion of waste. The so-called brown premium appears as a new category in the law. In the case of biomass and biogas plants which are exempted from the aid scheme after depreciation, i.e. after the maintenance of the various aid schemes, in order not to switch off power plants or to switch to fossil fuels, a brown premium would therefore be established. The first test tenders are expected in the second half of 2016. The full tendering procedure shall apply from 1 January 2017. Competition will ensure the optimal, cost-effective use of aid and flexibility in the tendering system in terms of the capacity of new entrants to produce, taking into account the achievement of the relevant targets and the burden on industrial consumers. The old compulsory take-over system remains in such a way that, after the entry into force of METAR, these contracts will continue to operate until 2041 and there will also be a change there after the exit. However, in the case of new producers, only the new so-called MEDAR system can be introduced. The cost managers of the aid scheme in Hungary - in the same way as the current aid scheme - are industrial electricity consumers and not the population itself. The new system will be more cost-effective than the old mandatory take-over system, less burden on industrial consumers and the government will be able to monitor the existence and functioning of the burden on industrial electricity consumers resulting from the funding of the support system. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is in full compliance with the EU's mandatory guidelines and aid scheme regulations. I ask you to amend the legislation necessary for the establishment of the aid scheme in accordance with the Environmental and Energy Guidelines, T/10095. Controversy, acceptance and support of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-13-72	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First up, Mr Jenő Manninger, lead speaker for the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2016-04-13-73	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the bill is, as the State Secretary pointed out, to ensure, on the one hand, that the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption for Hungary as defined for 2020 by Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of energy from renewable sources is met and, on the other hand, to make the system of operating aid for the production of electricity from renewable sources more cost-effective and, on the third, to align the guidelines published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 June 2014 with the provisions of the Commission Communication on State aid for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020. [[13.20]] The Secretary of State has already presented the three important elements, so allow me to highlight some important aspects of the bill. Therefore, as of 1 January 2017, there is a new aid scheme: new aid will only be granted through competitive bidding procedures, it will be able to ensure the optimal, cost-effective use of the aid and to provide flexibility in terms of new entry capacity and the achievement of renewable targets, taking into account the burden on consumers. It is also important to point out that in the case of waste incineration for the production of green electricity, it is only possible to apply for a premium after the biodegradable proportion of waste. As a further part of the proposal submitted, I would like to point out that the scheme will be introduced as a new element in order to avoid the closure of the already mentioned brown premium, biomass or biogas plants after depreciation, or their conversion to fossil fuels. In the context of the proposal, it is also important to stress that the burden of the METAR system will be borne by consumers who are not eligible for universal service, by industrial electricity consumers, and not by retail consumers, in the same way as the current system. I would also like to point out, as an important fact, that the new system will operate significantly more cost-effectively than the old one: in 2020 there will be a 21 percent less burden on industrial consumers who finance renewable electricity production than if the same amount of energy was produced with the old system. The reduction in the burden is due, inter alia, to the introduction of a brown premium, the sale of electricity on the market within the day, the savings resulting from the fall in wholesale prices, the expected reduction in balancing energy costs and the bearing of balancing energy by producers in the premium system. It is clear that the government will have to monitor constantly changes in the burden on industrial electricity consumers resulting from the promotion of renewable energy production and to regulate tenders. So in the new system, which I think is extremely important and timely to introduce, these measures should lead to the following. On the one hand, the aid scheme will operate more cost-effectively than the old system, since in 2020 there will be a 21 percent lower burden on industrial consumers financing renewable electricity production, which means 25 billion, i.e. if they did not do the transformation now, the aid scheme would be much more expensive. On the other hand, the market will be able to launch a system of support for the generation of electricity from renewable sources after 2020. Thirdly, at the so-called technological neutrality imposed by the EU, which would best support wind energy, we are expected to have more innovative technology-linked competition, where solar energy, for example, will benefit. For these reasons, I propose supporting the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-74	Thank you very much. Mr Bertalan Tóth, lead speaker of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-04-13-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot of nicely-sounding arguments about the bill on the introduction of the so-called MEDAR, both from the Secretary of State and from the lead speaker of Fidesz. However, in order to really deal with what has been said in place, two things should be stated. The first is that since Fidesz entered the government, i.e. since 2010, it has prevented and impeded the development of the domestic renewable energy sector; it has supported it orally, but has worked against it in its actions. The second is that the current bill will not bring results in this area either. Let us first look, ladies and gentlemen, how we have come from 2010 to this day, April 2016, when we are finally talking about a new system of support for electricity generation from renewable sources. Consider how the government of Viktor Orbán has hindered the development of the domestic renewable energy sector. The mandatory take-over system for electricity produced from renewable energy sources or waste is not sustainable in its current form and does not take into account either national or professional policy considerations, and therefore it is necessary to fully re-regulate it. In 2010 the Orbán government announced that it would introduce significant changes to the regulation on the use of domestic renewable energy sources. First, they promised to introduce the new rules by July 2011, then by 2012 and then by 2013. The government announced the introduction of the new aid scheme every six months, but it did not honour its promises once. As a result of this uncertain situation, after the dynamic expansion of renewable investments and use in the period 2003-2010, domestic renewable electricity production has been less than in 2010, and with the major projects previously planned, respect for the few exceptions, either waiting for it or being implemented in other countries of the region, creating jobs there and increasing the economy there. All in all, therefore, because of the unpredictable business environment created by the Orbán Government, investments in the current mandatory take-over aid scheme were only started by mistake. The situation in the renewable sector perfectly reflects almost all the characteristics of the Orbán government's economic policy and its consequences: unpredictable, unplanned regulation and business environment, the lack of new and real job creation investments, the lack of sustainability, agricultural, energy security and competitiveness aspects. All of this has greatly contributed to the lag of the Hungarian economy from other countries in the region. Because what's happened in the last six years? Projects under preparation basically stopped in 2010. This was understandable, as in the autumn of 2010, following the announcement of the Orbán renewable reform, sectoral players were already faced with the introduction of a price moratorium, the government had already imposed extra tax on banks providing funding for renewable investment and was preparing for this in relation to energy actors, and no further wave of crisis in the European economy has helped to realise the intentions. It has also not helped to implement the investor's intentions for multi-annual returns projects, since June 2010, there have been about 50 changes in energy laws, in most cases by the representatives' initiative, and I have not even talked about the regulations here. The Orbán government has adopted a renewable energy recovery action plan, which has been more or less a professional consensus zone, but has not actually been implemented so far. The Orbán government's anti-renewable energy measures were also reflected in the withdrawal of the tender for the construction of the wind power plant capacity of 400 megawatts in 2009 in the summer of 2010 and since then no new tender has been published. A similar measure was that the exemption for the use of bioethanol for transport was abolished in 2011 and the rate was increased to HUF 70,000 per thousand litres in two steps. And the fact that a product charge has been levied on solar panels fits into this line. In the meantime, legislation on the framework for the new renewable payment scheme was supposed to be in continuous coordination and had to wait six years. The recipe was simple and textbook-like: if you really don't want to do something, talk about it as much as possible, take the lead and make sure that you support the idea. This is exactly what the Government of Viktor Orbán has done in the last six years: he has spoken about renewable energy, but he has acted against it constantly, while renewing our unilateral Russian energy import dependency. Orbán turned to the past, not the future. The increased use of renewable energy sources, despite appearances, is not merely an energy issue: it would increase domestic employment, contribute to rural development, increase sustainability, increase economic competitiveness and secure energy supply. The impact of the use of renewable energy sources on economic development, recognising its potential, is partly due to the fact that renewable energy investments in Germany, Japan and France, which use a significant amount of conventional energy sources - natural gas, atoms and coal - are expected to amount to EUR 100 billion, and the European Union's 2020 targets are also in this direction. [[13.30]] In Hungary, using the potential of domestic biogas and biomass use, increasing areas to be included in energy crops, even tens of thousands of jobs requiring low skills could be created, while the installation and production of energy-producing and energy-using equipment could bring thousands of additional jobs. It is no coincidence that the renewable energy recovery action plan I spoke about, which you have put forward, counted between 70 and 80 thousand new jobs in the renewable energy industry, which are based on domestic value creation and, in most cases, on the expansion of rural employment. It's a literal quote from the action plan. The installation of small power plants producing electricity and heat, the modernisation of the remote heating systems of rural settlements, the modernisation of the energy supply of livestock farms could significantly help rural development and strengthen the capacity of the countryside to maintain its population. The growing use of renewable energy sources would also be in the interests of the future generation, as it would help to develop sustainable energy management. It would also strengthen the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, as according to expert calculations with domestic renewable energy sources, Hungary's annual use of natural gas could be reduced by up to 20 percent on the basis of biomass alone, and its dependence on imported natural gas could be reduced in any case. In the safe supply of energy to the population, there should also be no fear of security of supply conditions outside Hungary, as has been the case with the continuity of gas imports twice in the last ten years. However, these objectives, which are set out in the Action Plan itself, cannot be achieved without a predictable, transparent and stimulating regulatory and financing environment. The government should also be aware of this, as the Orbán government wants to achieve a renewable energy consumption ratio of 14.65 per cent by 2020, instead of the 13 per cent expected by the European Union. We believe that it is possible to achieve this in principle, but we need to see that we are not starting from zero, since in 2013 the share of renewables in total energy consumption was 9.8 per cent. In particular, the share of renewable electricity in domestic electricity consumption rose from 0.8 per cent in 2003 to 7.1 per cent in 2010. However, in 2012 the share of renewable electricity also decreased to 6.3 per cent with declining national electricity consumption and only slightly increased to 6.7 per cent in 2013. Therefore, the fulfilment of both the mandatory and the voluntary target would require significant government incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, however, the bill before us does not point in this direction. This bill introduces a new system of support for the production of electricity from renewable sources, but does not allow significant renewable energy developments to start. This proposal is all about the fact that METÁR is not actually aimed at encouraging the role of renewable energy sources in electricity production, but at checking the fulfilment of an EU obligation, so that the government can say that we have developed a support system that Brussels allows. That the investors aren't coming? Yeah, we can't help that. This is precisely the attitude or even stupidity that will make Hungary more detached from the more developed countries rather than catching up. According to Zsolt Szabó State Secretary for Development and Climate Policy and Priority Public Services, the winners of METÁR will be solar energy, biogas and geothermal plants, i.e. those sectors from which there is no expected domestic employment growth, investment, plant building, increase in electricity production and cogeneration with the exception of biogas. On the basis of the previously mentioned renewable energy action plan, the gross use of renewable energy sources will be doubled by 2020. But the most significant increase is expected from biomass; while, according to the Secretary of State, it is not among the winners of the aid scheme. For example, solar energy is needed. But I'm asking where these solar panels are made. Not in Hungary. How much live work do solar panels need to be installed? About the base and the racks must be assembled. For example, encouraging biomass use would have significantly greater benefits both in terms of employment and in terms of agriculture. It does not help the predictable business environment that the National Development Minister decides annually on the maximum amount of payment entitlements within the framework of the MEDAR; moreover, the decision is not linked, for example, to the targets of the renewable energy action plan. There is no time limit, no methodology, no justification. In our view, therefore, this unthinkable will also lead to less investment than possible. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to see that Hungary has almost everything to do with the growing use of renewable energies to redefine domestic industry, agriculture and increase employment. The goals are given, the necessary knowledge, expertise, diligence and cooperation skills are available in the renewable industry. The necessary technologies are available. Our possibilities are limited only by Hungary's natural characteristics and the lack of the will and ability of the Orbán government. We can't change the former, but we can change the latter later. We will work on this, and we cannot support the proposed legislation in its present form, because METÁR does not pay enough attention to the real potential of industrial policy, agriculture, employment and energy policy in the use of renewable energy sources, it will not encourage investors to make greater use of renewable energy sources in Hungary, it is merely aimed at assessing the fulfilment of an EU obligation. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-13-76	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, after prolonged labor, a relatively stale baby was born as regards the support system for renewable energies. Indeed, much more could have been achieved after all this time, after such a long delay in this area. Indeed, in Hungary today, although government propaganda and statistics say that we are good at using renewable energies compared to commitments, we are still lagging behind in terms of our potential and potential. In Hungary, there is a much greater potential for renewable energy than we are using at the moment. The reason why we do not take advantage of these existing options is clearly because of the lack of government will. I think that's been pretty clear over the last six years. I say this despite the fact that, in part, the bill on the promotion of renewable energy has now been drawn up under EU pressure, as we have seen in the last six years, for example, that no new tender has been launched in the field of wind energy, as has already been said in the speech before me by the lead speaker. Indeed, the taxation of solar panels with a product fee was also carried out in this cycle; and a number of other measures that led to very few wanting and willing to invest in renewable energy sources in Hungary today. It is not certain that this bill will change substantially, as we still do not see the breakthrough government's intention to be a kind of renewable energy power here in Central and Eastern Europe. It is clear that in Germany and Western Europe this has a much bigger tradition, and the European Union is pushing for renewable energy to be spread and supported not only for climate protection purposes, but also because in Western Europe, Germany, there is sufficient production capacity, there is an economic sector built on it, and, of course, because they have a long beach of hundreds or thousands of kilometres, I do so, as regards wind energy, the right amount of energy is also available. [[13.40]] Therefore, this was the case for us, and for example, this was how Denmark could have managed to cover its energy supply from purely renewable energy sources during certain periods of the year, but the situation in Hungary is a little different, and in the near future it will not change substantially. We can base our energy mix on renewables in part, but we must continue to base it on traditional energy sources in part. The reason for this is that, on the one hand, the power plant structure developed in Hungary by basing our electricity supply primarily on large core power plants, and Paks and our remaining coal power plants, gas-powered power plants, and this did not allow it, as these are less flexible core power plants, did not allow the grid, the electricity grid, to develop in such a way that many smaller power generation units, i.e. the decentralisation of power generation, could be achieved. This would require a much smarter, more flexible, smarter electricity management and electricity grid, and the future is not in large power plants, but in the decentralisation of energy production and renewable energy generation capacities created at household and small-scale settlement level. So this is basically what the government should encourage. In addition to supporting, let us say, the construction of new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the replacement of existing blocks, so that we can count on a stable nuclear power plant for a few more decades, we are also thinking in the long term, and we are trying to establish a scenario of how we can gradually switch with a decentralised energy generation and a significant energy efficiency investment, with a significant amount of energy efficiency investment, to a partially renewable generation and, in part, to electricity generation based on our existing capabilities, but to the greatest extent possible, on imports. This is the hits of the coming decades, and Western Europe has already discovered this. Biomass plants are being built in more and more places, at municipal level, at small community level, for example, and these biomass plants, in addition to supplying electricity to these small settlements, regions, are obviously also applicable to heat production and heating, and they are not central large power plants, I say once again, but serve the heating and electricity supply of small local plants, small settlements or community institutions. It's the same for solar energy. Existing energy efficiency investment proposals add little to this, as they are very small and very soon empty in general. Much, but much higher, renewable energy support should be used and provided for residential purposes and energy efficiency support. How does this relate to this bill? It is clear that the renewable energy relief scheme could be one of the incentives to create as many renewable energy investments as possible in Hungary. If we look at the diagram of how the use or production of renewable energy sources is being built in Hungary today, we can see that it is still largely biomass-based, and it is very small, let's say, maybe 10 percent if solar energy, wind energy, hydropower and geothermal energy are represented, and we may call these truly renewable energy sources. I note in parentheses that physicists often tell us that renewable energy is not, but now let's put it in parentheses, because energy is not being renewed, it is transforming from one form to another, and there is a certain amount of energy available. So it may be more appropriate to call them alternative energy sources, but, of course, from our point of view, from the point of view of human use, we can call solar energy or hydropower, wind energy, and of course this is what the bill and generally the legal term technicians put it like this. We would like a much more robust renewable energy support to be achieved, a much greater incentive for the population and even the industrial sector to use renewable energy sources in Hungary and shift it from biomass to other renewables. We also have significant capacity in geothermal energy recovery, where we can say, for heating purposes, or even for electricity generation, and solar and wind energy and hydro also have additional capacities. Moreover, the proportion of hydropower in Hungary is very small, 1-2 percent, which is interesting because, on a global scale, renewable energy production, the vast majority of electricity generation comes from hydropower. Of course, there are countries where waterfalls and heavy rain rivers are available, mountain rivers for producing renewable energy, in Hungary this is not typical since the Trianon peace treaty, so we have basically flat-land rivers, but their utilisation is extremely low even compared to this, which could also be slightly increased. This was a kind of an overview of how Hungary should increase its renewable energy efficiency and move the energy mix a little towards renewable energies, but this is for decades. However, such legislative proposals can be used as the amendment of the law on electricity before us at the moment, which is basically a small step, but I say, unlike the Socialist Party, that it is eligible for us, because we always believe that if the government takes a step forward with some initiative and could take a bigger step, why not support the small step, if we can at least start on a path and improve this path. We are not satisfied with all the details of the law either, and we do not believe that this will result in a significant change in the renewable energy market in Hungary, and, as I have already said, the government would need a lot of additional measures, which is not the job of this law, but with this law it could be submitted or submitted at the same time or at the same time or at the same time or at the same time or at the same time, and it would also be appropriate to submit legislative proposals allowing Hungary's electricity network to be adapted to accept many small renewable energy units, or to transform our tax policy in such a way that I do not have to pay product fees, environmental product charges for solar panels, or to initiate a number of other measures outside the tax system or the network that would be forward-looking. We are also waiting for the government to take this path, and for the next two years, which remains to be governed by it, to move on a slightly larger scale in terms of receiving renewable energies and encouraging renewable energy production units. We will support this proposal in the final vote, but once again, we call on the Government to take a small step, to take a big step, and by taking real measures, to actually achieve Hungary's much, much better performance in terms of its potential in terms of renewable energies. Thank you. [[Adam Mirkóczki applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor, MSZP. Here.
u2016-04-13-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to make two brief comments. One is that the share of renewable electricity in domestic electricity consumption, when based on a relatively longer time interval, can be seen to have a development rate and a break in the story. In 2003, it did not reach 1 percent, it was 0.8 per cent, and by 2010 it exceeded 7 per cent, 7 per cent. Then, after 2010, he was confronted with a fracture, representing below 7 percent in 2012 and 2013. The whole point of the story is that what concerns the take-over of renewable energy sources, about increasing the role of electricity generation, is practically, as I see it, the winners are primarily and essentially those who are engaged in biogas production, solar energy production, and those who progress on geothermal trails. [[13.50]] There is nothing wrong with the fact that they, the only problem I have, is that within these sectors employment competences cannot be as strong as they should be, or is not expected to be, a significant increase in electricity production. But the employment part is obviously linked to the fact that a multitude of plants of the type cannot be expected to be built in other areas. My second point, my problem, is that there will be no support for the production of electricity using waste, while the Union would approve it. So there will also be a waiver of a kind of opportunity in this regard. And what has already been mentioned by my fellow Members today is that there is also a certain uncertainty factor in this matter, that the Minister for National Development decides annually on the extent to which payment entitlements are maximized, I think it is not okay. To conclude, I would like to say that in Fidesz's pre-2010 programme there were also sectorial development ideas on energy production that would have allowed many tens of thousands of people, 68 thousand people, especially those with lower professional skills, to be able to claim a fair trial from decent work. As a result, it is safe to ask why their own thoughts are not enforced, for by failing to do so, about 100,000 people do not obtain the decent income they can obtain. I could continue with this logical reasoning, but, while respecting the patience of my fellow Members, I just want to say that it is worth considering that the government should also move in this direction. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Lajos Kepli is next in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-81	Thank you very much. Just to avoid misdirecting ourselves: the increase in energy production called renewable energy in the late nineties and the first half of the two thousand years is also due to the conversion of some of our coal power plants to wood-fired power plants. The same old, inefficient coal blocks began to be fired with wood, which in the early days meant that our forests had begun to be fired, and this was called renewable energy production. I think it was another untenable and very bad road. We cannot call renewable energy the burning of forests, wood burning, as it is not a sustainable process. Just as we cannot call the burning of waste entirely a renewable energy source, because although waste is actually generated continuously, it is obviously through human activity, and it also raises ethical issues as a renewable energy. But obviously there is a part of a biomass, an organic, decomposing part, which should be used energyally either in the form of biogas or in the form of incineration. There is also scope for progress in this regard. The following anomalies, which also exist in the Waste Act, show that the waste management system, which is mainly based on landfilling, has not fulfilled its expectations and is operating at a loss, so that the thermal and energy recovery of waste would be more profitable. That's something the government should think about. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-82	Congressman Nándor Gúr is next in two minutes.
u2016-04-13-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my fellow Member. I would not consider the extraction of energy from waste to be a renewable resource either. I mentioned this part of the story because it has the potential to happen. And we all know very well that in our accumulated waste we leave tens of billions of HUF worth of value in the present period, which can be interpreted as a kind of economic loss. The other part is that there is also agreement between us that, with regard to coal power plants and wood burning, the period around 2000 obviously played a role in the development of such percentage points, but did not play a significant role in terms of scale which would have been of decisive importance within the whole. So, what I see from all of this is that the activity that the present government is doing in this regard is, in fact, not speaking of it at the level of words, while preventing the development of the energy sector and moving things along with inhibition towards a completely different direction than what they are talking about. In addition to the features of this contradiction, it is worth examining this entire draft law and considering how and how to shape the future period. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-84	Thank you very much. Of course, every Member of Parliament has the right to speak, and I give the floor, but it is my duty to warn you that repeating what is said again is unnecessary, in accordance with the minutes, and also because of our memory. In this regard, and depending on it, Mr Lajos Kepli, take advantage of your opportunity, and I would ask you kindly not to do what you have said again. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-85	I will not, Mr President, and I will not take advantage of the 15-minute normal time frame, but since my two-minute speaking opportunity has already been used, I was forced to press a normal button. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the new auction system, which will be introduced in Europe from 2017 onwards, has also reduced the desire to invest in renewable energies at European level, since the reports and the reports show that China has already spent some 111 billion dollars on renewable energy infrastructure and has produced a 17 percent increase in 2015 compared to 2014, which is a very large number, especially in the United States, which is about half, 56 billion, and is similar in scale to the European Union, which, in turn, represents a 20-30 percent decline compared to the previous one. Obviously, it is possible to say that China had a place to develop and had a place to fall back to the European Union, but it still means that investment in renewable energies has been reduced at European level. It may be necessary to consider the whole system of support and legal incentives at a pan-European level and to re-launch them, especially on the basis of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which have not been the leading countries in this respect, the European Union's desire to invest more in renewable energy and its greater share of investment. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] Here you go. Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State, has the floor. Here.
u2016-04-13-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me say some stubborn and rigid figures about how serious we are about renewable energy, especially in recent times. This system, which I very much hope will be voted by everyone, as it will produce positive figures, will give 800 billion HUF so-called operating aid to renewables in the next ten years. We know that this means that the investment costs more and we want to encourage everyone to do so. And how much more optimistic we are than the EU: he sees 13 percent of the renewable energy potential in Hungary, we have committed 14.65 and we want to keep it. [[14.00]] Studies have been carried out in this regard, several of them, all of which have confirmed that if we go through those improvements, they will be implemented. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: When?]] Exactly until 2020. I'll tell you what, I'm gonna give you the numbers. For my part, I would like to correct the fact that, if I was misunderstood, we are not only talking about solar energy, not just geothermal, but also biomass, various biogas plants and other things. However, there are some anomalies I would like to draw attention to. On several occasions, we experienced the construction of a biomass, a biogas plant, and then it could not function because there was no raw material and it had to be stopped. There are not many large power plants that still operate. The other thing I would like to raise is the issue of waste. We are making an opportunity in law because we want to prevent landfill as much as possible. In the next law, this will come up. However, let us not forget that energy from waste incineration is not renewable in the European Union or that JASPERS specifically does not want or support mixed waste incineration. That is why we are thinking about using high-energy waste in such power plants and moving on. Germany and Denmark are in an interesting situation. There is not only a mandatory transmission system for industrial consumers and the new METAR system, but also for everyone, the population. The highest electricity prices are there. Now they're trying to figure out how to fix this system. The European Union has put in place a regulation in energy. He said that each country should put together its energy portfolio according to its own needs and opportunities. There are problems, aren't there? Some plants, for example, cannot operate with renewable energy. In order to provide constant heat, gas energy is simply needed. What do I mean? What does this law regulate? It regulates electricity on a market basis. Pay a lot for it if it takes off the peak during peak times, for example during the summer period, when the air conditioners go in the morning and in the evening, and do not pay for it at night, when there is no energy consumption, and do not give, God, we have to let go of the electricity. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki in the notary seat.]] This system is trying to track it. Obviously, correction will be necessary after consultation with the European Union and in accordance with our own practical needs. But as a basis, I think it's a very good way to move forward. Let us not forget that this legislation is only the legal basis, the government decree comes. There will be the essential element in which category the support system will be and how we can move on. One thing is certain, the government's intention is to achieve energy production, to help the production of renewable energy that will help the economy in the future. That's what I promised you. If I may say so, I'd like to read a connection. This is the EU call for proposals for the European Union. Priority 5 action plans: grid-generated non-building renewable green electricity generation; Action 2: energy efficiency of buildings using renewable energy sources; Action 3: local energy development of district heating on a renewable basis. In Hungarian, there are several European Union applications, we support them, and in all operational systems we can put up a tender worth HUF 760 billion. As we supported last year in the case of government buildings and municipal buildings, we will continue to support it, for example, we are about to produce renewable energy for solar parks. One thing we would like to maintain economically is the level that is sustainable financially by the Hungarian economy's budget and does not go beyond this level, and we want to have an economic energy operation in the country. And for that, we'll take this 14.65 percent. Thank you very much for your opinions, and we are trying to focus on everything. I ask you to support our draft legislation. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10098. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, who is the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2016-04-13-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The regulations established on the basis of the Water Utility Service Act and its authorisations have clarified the professional, economic requirements for water utility providers and the tasks and powers of the licensing authority, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. However, as a result of the integration process, some 40 water utility providers are now active compared to almost 400, exactly 373 service providers before the entry into force of the Water utility Act. It is nearing the end of the process, and it is necessary to adapt the system of rules based on accumulated experience, to require less and slower adaptation from the employees concerned, to help their day-to-day activities and operation by legislative operation. The amendment to the Water Utilities Act before you changes the legal institutions which, on the one hand, unduly burdened the work of those concerned and, on the other hand, have not been effective and have not been able to produce the speed needed for day-to-day economic operation. The bill transforms the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office's enforcement activities, breaks with the application of the rules of procedure laid down by the Act on Electricity in this field, and converts the procedure specifically to the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service. With the proposed amendments, the law deviates from the general rules of procedure only in a few details and details of the agency's supervisory activities appear. In addition, the Agency's supervisory activities will include comprehensive monitoring, screening and follow-up. The application of the water utility licensing system has proved difficult and inflexible and therefore it has become necessary to split the permits, to grant a permanent service provider authorisation and, on the other hand, to provide a so-called operating licence setting the limits of the frequently changing operating area. In order to facilitate easier access to the rules of the law and to facilitate the interpretation of the law, the proposal was made to supplement the rules on those responsible for care and to make minor adjustments. The amendment does not affect the system of rights and obligations of the care provider so far, but the substantive rules which have so far been scattered are presented in one place as the norm. On the one hand, the new legislation on the role of care providers seeks to ensure a smoother relationship between those responsible for care than the operation of the systems and, on the other hand, requires that, in the case of mixed-owned water utility systems, activities can be carried out in the future only on the basis of an operating contract, on the basis of the agreement of those responsible for care. The law itself complements the substantive and procedural rules governing the establishment of a service which may be located between the water utility system and the other real estate intended to be connected. Prior to the entry into force of the Act, for some reason the establishment of a service in respect of water utilities was not established, and by re-regulation of the relevant provisions in this area, this regulation is also possible. It is a significant step forward that the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as set out in the report of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, will allow the substance to be answered and the investigation of anonymous consumer complaints to be ignored. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask that the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. T/10098. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the Government's intention. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-13-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, Congressman Jenő Manninger, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2016-04-13-91	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given the longer scope of the proposal submitted, I would only touch on the main points of substance. First of all, the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, which contains essentially only technical clarifications and amendments, except for one essential point, is that the legislation creates the possibility that the authority will be able to lodge a complaint of the same content, but no longer containing any new information, which is identical to the content of the consumer's complaint which has previously been answered in substance, and that anonymous consumer complaints will not be required to be examined and may not be answered in substance. This can obviously mean that more resources can be used to investigate substantive complaints, so this is definitely a welcome change. If we look at the changes to the water utility service, I would like to say a few words about this, complementing the presentation by the Secretary of State, highlighting what is causing this, the need for further legislative changes in the field of water utility services: it is certainly not that there are any problems or operational problems in the field of water utility services, but it is clear that it is always necessary to regulate procedures and legal backgrounds so that the system is more effective. In recent years, the integration of water utility providers has been one of the most decisive changes in the field of water utility services. The start of the licensing process in 2013 gave such a strong impetus to the integration of service providers that, as a result of the integration process, significantly fewer activities of around 40 water utility providers than of 373 service companies before entry into force are allowed today. Partly Vkstv. the experience gained in the course of this amendment, and in particular the parliamentary debate in the context of its recent amendment, pointed out that a number of problems were not adequately addressed by the law, with minor shortcomings and coherence gaps. In addition, the most important thing is, of course, that correction has also become timely on the basis of the experience gained in the progress of the water utility integration process. If we look at the objectives set out in the bill, I would like to list some of them, as it is important to mention that the procedural regime on which the enforcement of the law of the MEKH is based is being amended, creating a more direct link with the law on administrative procedures and general rules for the provision of services, as well as the detailed rules on its supervisory activities. The second objective is to radically transform the water utility operator's operating authorisation system without amending the conditions for issuing authorisations. The legislation on liability for care is added and amended to eliminate difficulties in applying the law, in particular with regard to multi-supply-owned water utility systems. It has already been said that the material and procedural rules for the establishment of water management services are changing. I also think that this is a step forward and simplifies the procedures. Returning to some purposes, it is therefore necessary to mention that the bill will transform the framework of the law enforcement activities of the MEKH. At the same time, what I would like to highlight with regard to the amendment of the licensing system: by including rules on the operational relationship and the resulting supply area and user equivalent, the licensing systems of the water utility service providers laid down in Vksztv. have proved cumbersome and inflexible. Based on the experience gained in recent years, it has become necessary to split up the current water utility operator operating licences, on the one hand a permanent service provider, an economic and technical personnel certification, and on the other hand a frequently changing operating licence or licences setting out the territorial boundaries of operation. The splitting of the authorisation system according to the bill facilitates the monitoring of the territorial scope of the authorisation by means of official means, thereby accelerating the authorisation procedure. However, this does not change the requirements so far. So I can say that, in fact, we are talking about changes that are important for the operation with legislative clarifications, which do not change the fact that, as a result of the changes in recent years, the water utility system is functioning properly, which is very important that the service has become cheaper, but at the same time it is clarified, the legislative background is improving, this is reflected in the amendment of the bill, and I therefore ask you to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-13-92	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since the adoption of the Law on water utility services adopted in 2011, this law has been amended comprehensively several times. Of course, there have been minor amendments to other draft laws, but the first two were more serious, more comprehensive amendments, with no other purpose than to apply the requirement to reduce the cost of service to the service charges imposed upon the installation of new drinking water or sewage systems. The bill before us reveals several points of error in the actions it has made over the past years and tries to mitigate the damage it has caused in some way. However, this proposal does not address the main problem. The fact that due to the reduction of the rent and, by the way, due to the public utility tax, water utility providers are in an impossible situation. At the moment, these companies are on the verge of their sustainability. We've told you a few times since this law lies before us, and since we have the opportunity, we've told you several times that these companies are really on the verge of being operational right now. And when EU law and citizens' right to access clean drinking water is the right of a Hungarian citizen and of a citizen living in any country of the Union, I think that it is not normal that these companies cannot use it for maintenance at the moment, which is why there are a lot of pipe breaks and serious malfunctions in the settlements. Thus, the possibility and right of people to access clean drinking water is being violated at the moment. The water utility sector has reached its limit of scope for improving efficiency. The rate of VAT, the poorly invented utility tax, has already made the water utility service sector loss-making by 2014. A total revenue loss of some HUF 20 billion per year for the sector is the result of a missed policy. The situation has not improved or even deteriorated in the last year and a half. There is still no meaningful impact of service providers on costs and revenues. The proportion of fixed costs in the water utility sector is about 80-85 per cent, independent of quantity, while revenues have been frozen by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us look inside ourselves: would we say that we want to have a company whose fixed costs are between 80% and 85%, in which everything is already in place? And what I said, there's no money to renovate, buy new equipment, maintain the system itself, or even hire as many people who can run this sector normally. Yesterday, I have already said that these water utility companies - a good part of which is a local government-owned company - are now operating in such a way that the customer service to which you call in, that if you have any problems with the water supply, this is located on the other side of the country, and the poor resident tells you that the water is running on the street before 42 Kossuth Street - and asks you after you don't even know where Kossuth Street 42 is in the settlement from which you call to the customer service - and there are times when you have to explain for 1 to 1.5 hours where you should find the problems that you're going through the customer service to even start solving the problem. [[14.20]] I think this is also the fault of the public utility sector, the fault of the sector, because they have reduced the possibilities of these companies so much that they are suffering from a lack of people and a shortage of professionals at the moment. It remains a problem, as we have been saying for a very long time, that we could increase the period of credibility of connecting water meters, as these hours can be in residential consumption for a much longer period abroad. This costs approximately HUF 2 billion a year. Unfortunately, it has not found open ears either, as we have repeatedly said, that we do not respect any domestic and EU obligations in relation to it, nor do we pay attention to the possibility of introducing smart measurement in the field of water utility services, even though the implementation of smart measurement could bring a number of benefits to operators and users. I think that would be an idea, because it would be good for everyone. We should create a water utility service, put a law on the table that is sustainable, which is good for utility companies, which, as I said, is largely municipal owned; it is good for the population, because it can pay the price of the service. You know that water is one of the services that people pay one of the least, because they know that drinking water cannot be blocked. This is why we should also pay attention to the need to create a sustainable system, because most people like to pay their checks, only when they are not there at the end of the month, this is what they are putting aside first, and this is something they will not pay first, which I think is harmful to the sector, so it is difficult for companies to maintain themselves, and there is not enough money left for maintenance. The sectoral problems listed above and the bill do not provide a solution, but, as it seems, there is much to be done, because we should probably create a new law and not simply unravel, not stick to the wrong ideas, decisions, but think about it with the profession, sit down with the mayors, and think about it with the leaders of local government-owned companies. I mean, I think everyone wants to be good; they want to create a system, they want to create a law that can maintain this system, they want to make this system work, so that there won't be so much damage, there won't be any loss of maintenance, there's no drinking water, because I think it can make everyone's lives miserable. Until the principles of security of supply, responsibility for supply, service responsibilities, solidarity and cost recovery can be enforced, the MSZP Group cannot support the amendment. We think that we should really sit down and work together with the profession, listening to the opinion of the profession, a law that makes this system sustainable and operational. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-94	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi, notary of Parliament, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-13-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the legal practice accumulated over more than four years since the entry into force of the Water Utility Service Act and the experience gained from the progress of water utility integration in 2016, it was also timely to review and change the 2011 Act. The bill before us also serves to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market and sets out the regulatory framework for the following purposes. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned that previous speakers have also mentioned that there is a change in the procedure on which the agency's enforcement activities are based. It may also include detailed rules on the Agency's supervisory activities, a comprehensive audit, a target examination and a follow-up. There is a radical change in the system of operating licences for water utility providers without issuing or amending the terms of the licences. The bill also changes the framework of the agency's enforcement activities. Together with the transformation of the administrative duty and procedural order, for the first time, the detailed rules of the agency's supervisory activities are formally published in the law, which will now cover a comprehensive audit, target examination and follow-up in the form of the law. The bill splits the current water utility service provider licences along the economic, technical and personnel preparedness parts of the water utility service provider and the following parts of the operational contracts, which define the territorial boundaries of the operation of the water utility service provider. The bill before us is supported by the co-ministeries concerned. During the administrative consultation, the national bodies of professional interest were consulted. This includes the Hungarian Water Utility Association, the Hungarian Water and Sewage Association, the Association of Environmental Service Providers and Manufacturers, the National Association of Housing Cooperatives and Associations, the National Association of Municipal Governments and the National Association of County Local Governments. According to the law, only water utility providers that have at least 150,000 user equivalents may be granted an operating licence. This regulation is not new, with the aim of ensuring the optimal size of the plant and the transparent, safe operation of the sector. With regard to the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, the question may arise as to whether consumer interests are not affected by the need to investigate anonymous complaints no longer. This will allow the Authority to spend more resources than any unnecessary burden on investigating substantive complaints. Commissioner for Fundamental Rights AJB-474/2016. The report in Case No.3 drew attention to the fact that it is not justified to investigate complaints made by the same user with the same content as the content of the previous substantially answered consumer complaint, without any new information, as well as to investigate anonymous user complaints. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that everything that is in this draft law will be achieved, will be supported by my fellow Members, and I urge you to support the adoption of the draft law in the final vote. That's what the KDNP fraction will do. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-04-13-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also see, like our opposition colleagues, that the domestic water utility sector is having huge problems, and this has not been substantially helped by the fact that almost a tenth of the number of water utilities sector players has fallen. What Jobbik has always supported and will support is that the strategic service sector, whether in energy or in water utilities, should remain state-owned or local government-owned, but we have strong concerns about funding, which we say every time such proposals come before the House. In this specific sector, namely the water utility sector, the reduction has not, according to the reports, made substantial savings for the population, but has made the situation of the water utility sector significantly difficult, and not only the reduction in overhead costs, but also the utility tax, which is paid by service companies in proportion to the length of the public utility lines. There are indeed serious problems in this regard. In the field of service providers, various malfunctions, pipe breaks and migrations are regularly dealt with in many decades of old, ageing pipelines, and there is a risk of continuous and safe drinking water supply, which is interesting because one of the most fundamental rights would be access to healthy and clean drinking water, as adequate drinking water supply is essential for the functioning of life and, of course, linked to wastewater treatment and sanitation. [[14.30]] Compared to this, we find that, on the one hand, because of this situation, these water utility companies, water utility companies, within the country or depending on service providers, are operating at about zero or even at a loss, we can experience rather different situations and different prices for consumers, while in certain areas they obtain adequate prices for drinking water from the public, from other parts of the country, such as ours, Lake Balaton, or from the services of the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks, both drinking water supply and sewage treatment. We have heard before, and we know that about 80 percent of the costs of the service provider are fixed costs, and the cost of the service is only 20 percent, so these companies are exposed to a rather difficult situation. A very large number of complaints are also indicated, which is also mentioned in the amendment to the law, that a repeated complaint lodged with the same content is not required to be examined in substance by the service provider if it has already done so or if it has been answered in substance. The question is how this will be an opportunity for abuse from a consumer point of view, who will judge whether it really was a complaint with the same content as the previous one, and whether the consumer has actually received a meaningful reply to his complaint in the past. After all, several times - I have also experienced - that they turn to the service provider again and again with the same complaint, to which the service provider either cannot or does not want to give a meaningful response or a meaningful answer, after which the second or several complaints are no longer required to be examined under the law. This may be to the detriment of consumers, and it may not actually lead to a more customer-friendly service provider. The government always says that it is necessary to move towards customer-friendly public administration and customer-friendly services - this does not necessarily mean that this measure can be implemented. I understand the other side, of course, that you are removing a greater burden from case managers and customer service staff by not being unduly burdened with a complaint, by searching for the same complaint over and over again, weekly, thus hindering their work, but, again, it does not necessarily lead to customer-friendly services, and on the other hand, it also gives rise to abuse. In the longer term, on the one hand, it would be an objective, if possible, to approximate water prices and canal charges at national level, since, regardless of the territory in which a person lives, it is obvious that he is entitled to access drinking water and sewage services at roughly the same price or at least entitled. I think that would certainly be a measure to be considered on the part of the government. Also, the reduction of the burden on water utility companies, the correction of their financing problems, various studies on the effects of the abolition of the utility tax would have on them, so that they do not have to pay this utility tax, and in particular if they could enforce it in the prices, they could also cover the reduction of costs; and VAT reductions were also considered as a possible solution to reduce the VAT rate from 28 to 17 per cent. This, too, could obviously make it easier for the service sector. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] There are so many problems, and there are so many pressing problems on the part of both service providers and consumers that we will not be able to support this bill as a sign of our protest, which will not solve these problems. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-98	Welcome to my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Manninger Jenő.
u2016-04-13-99	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, in addition to the legal and technical clarification of the legislative proposal, there have, of course, been contributions to the water supply system. I suppose that's okay, but let me tell you two things. One is that here they refer to the fact that the fixed costs are very high. Yes, constant costs are high in the supply of water, but I hope this was not said as if the price system could be changed; of course, it may only be expected that it would encourage water consumption. So I think that there are two aspects that need to be considered: that it should approach economic reality as much as possible, and that - and I think, in particular, that sustainable development representatives are sure to support it - so that it does not encourage more water consumption. After all, the basic problem is that 20 years ago there was no such system, and people consumed about twice as much water as they do now. It is obvious that this system remains in essence, and this is also causing problems. At the same time, I believe that the management of the reduction of the rent was a major weapon, and that the water and sewer charges today are cheaper than they were in previous years, while we saw, for example, that prices were constantly rising above inflation during the socialist period. So if we see the whole thing in one piece, we have to add that this is very important. In addition, of course, there is a need to try to make it as cost-effective and as efficient as possible, but I think that this is the case, since Hungary has a very high proportion of the population adequately supplied with drinking water compared to the European average. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-100	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes.
u2016-04-13-101	Thank you very much. Indeed, as a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and as a politician committed to water management or environmental protection, I cannot support or support water wasting water, but it is not necessarily due to the introduction of a system that has reduced water consumption. Many people, especially in poorer regions, also use their own wells or, where appropriate, dug wells for cooking or even for household purposes, which is dangerous from a public health point of view, but the fact is that those who do not have the money to pay for fixed water often need these opportunities. On the other hand, there are large plants, with high water demand technology, which, in turn, make a huge profit from the fact that in Hungary they can produce up to a million cubic metres of water from their own wells, with the payment of otherwise relatively favourable water supply, because I think it is not by chance that several food or soft drinks companies operate their centre in Central and Eastern Europe in Hungary and supply the region with either soft drinks or other products. Of course, there is also a need to ensure that these businesses are not able to produce our water resources beyond the limits of sustainability and that they can be encouraged much better by means of financial means, since they have huge profits, which, of course, should only be used to pay a fee proportionate to the use of our natural resources. So, not on the public side, but on this side, would be more room for manoeuvre - and more water consumption is obviously here - to encourage a more sustainable use of water. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-102	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2016-04-13-103	Thank you very much. Of course, as my fellow Member said, we do not want to encourage the population to waste, but it does matter whether people can pay the fees at all or not. I think that, as I said, we need to establish a sustainable system, and as we have said and raised several times, and we have repeatedly tabled a bill to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, because I think that the more basic food is, as drinking water is, there are few things; I think this is an indisputable issue. [[14.40]] Therefore, it is also a matter of thought that, for the population alone, what would happen if, by the way, we reduced the VAT on water, because I think that would mean very, very much for everyone, and even a more sustainable system could be set up. Think about it, and if you submit this, we will, of course, support it. Thank you.
u2016-04-13-104	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2016-04-13-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about some 40 water utility providers and the bill that concerns them. All that we are talking about concerns the economic, technical, technological or personal skills of water utility providers, as well as the definition of the area of operation resulting from the operating contract and the designation of the boundaries of the area of operation. These issues will be split up along the lines of their parts in relation to current water utility licences. On the one hand, it's being transformed, and on the other hand, it's being re-regulated. They will adapt the licensing system and re-regulate the various provisions. Now, I really don't want to deal with this part. Rather, with the part about the situation of water utility providers in practice, it is virtually its inability, the past inability, because it can be accounted for, or/and represents the foreseeable future inability. Unfortunately, it cannot be taken away from the fact that these water utility providers are living their daily lives together with increasing incomes, and they are obviously searching and searching over recent years for ways to be more cost-effective, how to perform their work in a more efficient way, but, to my knowledge, they have reached their upper inflection point, so there is little room for manoeuvre in this respect. As has already been mentioned here in Parliament, there are very high fixed costs for water utility providers. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, has also used a specific figure, a ratio of 80-85 per cent, which is correct, I must confirm. I must add that, while these fixed costs are of such magnitude and scale, revenue has become frozen. If the fixed costs were and exist at this level while the revenues were frozen, what is the consequence of this? Obviously, after a while, these companies are losing money. This loss-making process is also reinforced by the fact that there are outstanding amounts and that there are increasing levels of outstanding amounts. At the level of nearly 40 water utilities providers, there are those that account for 12% of their annual turnover. This is the level that means the level of inability to manage, as you can imagine that if an 85 percent fixed cost is used in addition to the change of income, while facing 12 percent outflow, then how and what leeway the company itself has. Well, none. We are in a situation as a result of this process that its basic service activity is in danger. The provision of concrete, tangible services itself is threatened by this process. I have to say, companies that are losing money are obviously unable to meet the really minimal, sub-minimal requirements to carry out renovations, which are about performing the necessary maintenance tasks. Not being able to perform maintenance tasks brings additional costs. Non-renewal results in loss levels that clearly cannot be operated more efficiently and can not be made more cost-effective. If we think about, say, where, how the 40 water utility providers are divided at the level of the country, and in parallel we are going through a different line of thought, the imposed utility tax, which sets the rate of payment in the order of magnitude per river, should again be seen as a disadvantage for water utility providers, which are basically in disadvantaged areas, serving the population of a multitude of disadvantaged small settlements. It makes perfect sense that it doesn't matter how and how we can provide services through a main spinal cord in Budapest, within a large city, or, say, in a settlement 6-8-12 kilometers apart, where 300 or 500 people live, we perform the service. Over many years, over its period, we have repeatedly raised and asked for the imposition of public utility taxes on water utility providers in respect of the imposition of public utility taxes per equivalent river meter, but also to take into account the area of service, the number of settlements within the service area, and not only how many river meters it is carried out. Obviously, in an area that is completely clear and clear, where there are a lot of small villages, and people live their lives in blocks and blocks, where there are 8 or 12 thousand people living on the same street in relation to Budapest or county centres, but in a settlement 300 or 500, and in relation to the settlement next to it 8-12 kilometers, there are more kilometers, not meters, the number of kilometres than in a densely populated area. For this reason, it is precisely those providers who provide basic services in the more disadvantaged regions of the country, who are those who have higher public utility tax obligations at their rates, so that those who are disadvantaged are even more disadvantaged not only in terms of the region, but also because of the public utility charges imposed, and are unable, unwilling and unwilling to change this system. I must say, this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable, on the one hand, for service providers who perform in this area, but also from the perspective of the people to whom these services are provided. Obviously, sooner or later, there will be situations in which these costs of public works tax will be passed on to the public. One way or another, they're moving to the population. I would therefore like, once again - not for the first time in recent months and years, but for the second time - to ask the Secretary of State with great respect, to begin to think that, in terms of the imposition of a public utility tax, it is not necessary to recognise the rates per metre per unit, but also to take into account many other aspects. By the way, on an annual basis, I understand that this represents such a withdrawal of HUF 20 billion from the sector. It's huge, it's huge money! [[14.50]] If these were not withdrawn, or not to this extent, or in relation to the resolution of the problem mentioned above, only in proportion, and if the withdrawal of a HUF 10 billion equivalent to half of the resources did not occur, it would be a great help for the water utility companies, and therefore for the people, because they would obviously be able to pay the service fees more easily in the end. I'd like to say three more simple things. One is that if they do nothing in these necessarily necessary steps, security of supply will continue to deteriorate. I do not want this to happen, but I believe that you have something to do with this. I'll give you some of the lifelike examples people face. In law or regulation, I don't know, I can't remember, but it doesn't matter, they regulated that water meters have to be changed every four years, certified, but they are usually combined with exchanges. As I understand it, as I have seen in Europe, such water meters spend about 10 and 20 years of time and do their job, which is their delivery time. Why do we need to invest approximately HUF 2 billion every four years in these authentications, meter exchanges, if these clocks actually last between 10 and 20 years? This HUF 2 billion a year would be more than a loss of income due to inaccuracies. Then why is this story rational? But I'll tell you another thing. I believe that my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, has also mentioned how to read, the smart measurement system, the need for remote reading on online platforms. Of course, something that's doing the right thing. I know of such systems, which have been introduced, but unfortunately, people are also faced with the problem of completely false data appearing on the invoices issued, as in terms of real measurements. And I'm not saying that, let's say, in condos, it would be appropriate to place hours within the framework of this remote reading so that they can be read. Not only by remote reading, but when you want to control what kind of water consumption you actually have, you can read it. I can show you a number of places where it is impossible to read these clocks, even with a mirror, because these clocks appear in the mounting box - in a box placed in quotes - in the ceiling, between pipes. So, I think they're all small and complementary, but they're very important in order to move forward in terms of how a normal system works. I'll tell you one more thing. You know, if there's a test clock in a community and there's submeter watches, it wouldn't be a problem if, let's say, there were readers at the settlement level, because there aren't many places anymore. This causes a multitude of problems that water utility companies cannot follow consumption in a fair manner, and the result of this - I can also say specific cases - is that they invade the communities and go to homes to open taps in order to look for false water use. While all they should do is to employ readers who have been insured for many decades, and then they would not face such problems. In my last thought, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many times we have spoken to Mr Fónagy, State Secretary, that it would be worth once in a long time to put in order what would put the employment security of water utility providers and the issue of wages and salaries in the focus and settle it. For a long time, there have been a multitude of promises faced by interest organisations in this regard, but no tangible, clear, positive confirmations have been received. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-106	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a two-minute comment.
u2016-04-13-107	Thank you very much, I just want to highlight one more thing, precisely because I think you all know very well how unsustainable this system is at the moment. I mean, let's just look at the results from 2013. The operating results of the majority of state-owned operators were negative as early as 2013, as we know. But they also made losses in 14 and the public companies had to give 17 billion to be able to function at all. Local government-owned water utility companies didn't get a penny, but they had to be able to perform the same performance, under the same conditions as the state company couldn't. That's why in 15 years, public companies had to put about HUF 20 billion into it to make them work. The big question is, if you know that this is an unsustainable system, because you have to replace your own public company, then why not try to create a system that is sustainable, where there will be money for maintenance, correction of errors, purchase of new tools, pay for readers. After all, I have told you many times that in the countryside, in small settlements, in the ageing settlements, the number of readings can cause a huge problem if the number of readings is low, because most of the time the water clock is at the end of the family houses and gardens, where the old lady cannot go down, and if the pipe breaks in the wrong place, and the old lady does not notice this pipe break, and the reader comes much less often than in the old days, then the resident will pay for it, because she doesn't see what happened, she doesn't know what happened, and she doesn't realize that her watch is spinning. I think it doesn't matter from a humane point of view. So I really ask that we think about creating a sustainable system, which is good for residents, good for local government-owned companies, and sustainable. Thank you.
u2016-04-13-108	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes.
u2016-04-13-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with what my colleague Nándor Gúr said about the exchange of water meters, just recently we had this water meter exchange in the DRV service area, and what a burden it is for the population: the water meter was replaced at a gross price of HUF 16,000, and the service provider's employees even charged additional installation costs, and also for the sealing itself, in order to validate and seal the meter, an additional HUF 5,000. So, overall, it meant more than HUF 20,000 for a household. We can imagine, since the costs of this sealation are not actually borne by the service provider, that they are trying to reduce their losses, that they are billing such costs to the consumer, but that the consumer should not be able to finance the loss that these companies are suffering because of the so-called reduction of their debts and the utility tax, because that is what is happening at the moment, because if we project this to a whole settlement or even to a whole area of service, the company's revenues are certainly millions of dollars. In English: people are paid for the loss they otherwise suffer due to the reduction of the rent, and of which the population perceives very little, 100-200 forints per month in their own water charge and in their own bills. So there is no balance between the two, which is why, in the long term, I say something must be done in the water utility sector, because it cannot be allowed for the public to bear these burdens. Thank you.
u2016-04-13-110	I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2016-04-13-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We could say - continuing this line of thought, since we have raised the existing problems with the exchange of water meters - that you do not give, but you are lost. They try to make it look like they're giving us a reduction in overhead, while in other ways, in other ways, they're lost, even as regards the exchange of water meters. [[15.00]] But it is not only worth addressing the issue of water metering, but, repeating once again what my fellow Members have said, it is important that, in terms of VAT, which is 27 percent world champions, basic food, in Hungarian, should at least be able to get the country back to the level of 5 percent, simply because, although my fellow Member said that if water was cheaper, consumption would increase - no, no! If water were cheaper, fewer people would not be able to pay service fees. I told you, today there is a water utility company with an outstanding amount of between 8 and 12 percent, and this does not come from sloppyness, but simply because people are in a situation where they can't even pay the fees for basic services, simply because they don't get the decent minimum money they need to make a living. You know as well as I do that I don't have to start talking about public employment wages through the minimum wage for a lot of other things. One word, as a hundred, to sum up, I think, therefore, that it should not be given without being lost; and that a condition should be created where service charges are less expensive, simply in order to make them affordable, Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-112	I ask my fellow Members, even three are present... [[Lajos Kepli is on the phone.]] - now it's just the two of us - to see if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. Then I'll give Mr Zsolt Szabó the opportunity to comment.
u2016-04-13-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Although we did not quite discuss the amendments contained in the law, it is obvious that they affect this area directly or indirectly. And if I may, I'd like to answer the questions and the ideas that have been raised, specifically and surprisingly specifically. One of them was a sentence that I really liked: do I want a company like that? Well, there was a time when a French investor really liked a company like that. Now, we do not want that, and we hope that in the future no private sector will enter the water utility or any utility service. I believe, and I believe, that the sector is nonprofit, and what we need to do well is how it can function in this way, in a balanced manner. This is what the government is now proposing, an ex ante proposal of a derogative nature, which is three solutions to the balanced financial functioning of water utility providers. However, let me also say positive things about water utility providers: not all of them are loss-making, and many of them are actually doing it well. I know a local government-owned water utility company that can even distribute a reward at the end of the year and move on the same conditions, in the same supply area, in the same way. This is true of public water utility companies, i.e. state-owned and local government companies. We've talked about this several times, the amount of VAT. From the point of view of water utility providers, if I reduce VAT, that does not mean an increase in economic results, because VAT is a transit item. I think it's totally clean. It is also clear, I think that we are preparing a regulation now, and the regulation has 8 years instead of 4 years on the rating of clocks. We're done with this regulation. [[Nándor Gúr's intervention.]] What is interesting about this is that it is actually HUF 2 billion per year to authenticate the clocks. If we double the time, it will be reduced to a billion. So this whole thing isn't going to zero, it's going to split in half. The smart watch is fully supported, we look for the opportunity, but if it's smart, then it's worth gas, electricity, water. So the more services, the more efficient it can be done. 80 percent is the constant cost. This is probably because we believe that healthy drinking water is always available - well, that is not true, we know that. And the price of water itself is very low. However, the cost of operation is much higher and high. Overall, it can be said that the problems raised that are related to the sector are always proposed and are in the process. I hope that they will be compatible with the adoption of this law, and I trust that the opposition parties will then support the vote on this law. I urge everyone to support the adoption of the law itself, precisely because of the facilitation procedures and the corrections. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-04-13-114	Ladies and gentlemen, Then the general debate is closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10093. and the background material of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I also give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, from the Ministry of National Development.
u2016-04-13-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The objective pursued by the bill before us is to continuously improve the quality of the waste management public service so that consumers do not have to pay more for the service. The bill is in line with the public service and ongoing transformation of waste management, which is about ensuring long-term viability and creating conditions for cost-effective operation. The proposal ensures the preservation of the results of the reduction of costs, the reduction of the amount of waste to be disposed of, the fulfilment of the recovery targets set by the Union and the full operation of the selective waste collection system at home. The bill, in line with the fundamental principles of the restructuring of the system, will at the same time facilitate the territorial optimisation of the public service, the provision of a nearly uniform public service and the settlement and individual treatment of the losses currently in the system. At present, the public service system for waste management does not sufficiently encourage service providers to recover the value of the benefits. This is nearly HUF 40 billion. The fragmented systems are unable to produce competitive prices and the modest amount of material generated by waste recycling will not allow optimal recovery. The coordinating body set up to establish an efficient, sustainable and transparent waste management public service system should be given the right to dispose of the benefits in order to ensure that all direct costs of the waste management public service redeemed in the service fee are reimbursed to public service providers. Thus, both the public and the public services will be placed in a better position, and the additional revenues from the sale will enrich, help and compensate public services, thereby reducing even further the burden on the public. The measures will increase the amount of benefits, including income from them, but will reduce the amount of mixed municipal waste to be disposed of. As a result of the information forums, public service providers have recognised the potential for separate collection of green waste, the importance of this being reflected in the service fee to be paid to them, thereby ensuring a significant level of utilisation of green waste, even in excess of the exploitation values set by the European Union. In order to protect the residents, the bill gives the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office control powers. It will also guarantee that the billing of public service charges meets all requirements and improves the quality of service. The protection of consumers' interests is fully ensured in the legislative amendment. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask that the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. T/10093. I want you to discuss bill number 1 and support the government's intention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.10]]
u2016-04-13-116	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-13-117	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the very important principles of sustainable development in waste management is the prevention, quantity and management of waste generated, which is a central indicator of sustainable development. In Hungary, significant progress has been made in recent years in order to regulate and make waste management sustainable. The rules of the EU Waste Management Directive were transposed into Hungary's legal system by the 2012 Waste Act. It is very important to emphasise once again that at the beginning of the decade, so after 2010, we managed to stop shipments of waste to our country. In 2013, the National Waste Management Agency started operating and further programmes and legislative amendments served the development in this area from 2013 to 2015. The current amendment to the waste legislation will help the operation of a new system of waste management. Based on the establishment of a single non-profit public service system with a null and void operation. In order to achieve the principle, the public waste management task has been separated from the public tasks of the public and municipal authorities, in which the municipality continues to retain its municipal tasks in relation to waste management, and accordingly the municipal authorities can adapt the waste management activity to local needs. As the Secretary of State has said, the transformation of the previous waste management system is also necessary because the waste management public service system needs to be better motivated to generate the revenue of nearly 40 billion HUF. The fragmented systems could not, and could not, produce competitive prices for waste recovery, given the lack of output. In addition to national coordination, however, large quantities of waste, such as benefits, can be provided, which allows for a good bargaining position with recyclers. In order to resolve all this, the coordinating body should be given the possibility of providing for benefits. This is because all direct costs of the waste management public service will be reimbursed in the service fee, including the costs of collecting and managing material. As a result of the market position to be created, both the public and the public services sector will benefit and benefit, as additional revenues from the sale will help the public sector, thus reducing the public's costs even further. The service fee will be normative and legal, the extent of which will be influenced by several factors. For this service fee, a basic fee shall be set at national level, to which weightings may be assigned. The weightings may change the base rate both in a positive and negative direction, which will depend on the quality of service and on the contribution to the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the European Union against Hungary. In this way, it will be possible to maintain the waste management public service in Hungary at a high level, with charges favourable to the general public. I believe that this system, which is meant to compensate for the territorial disparities that have arisen, is very important and deserves very much attention, is a good initiative, and perhaps there is no other way to resolve the situation in this country differently. What has happened during the past decades during the Balliberal Government? It is possible to argue that because of the illusion of free competition, or even by interests, foreign private capital has appeared here, which would not have been a problem if it had not been intended to embellish the most valuable parts of the waste business and, of course, to take the profit out of Hungary. This system has ceased, and we stress that it has ceased. I understand that socialist representatives are now concerned about local government-owned companies. Indeed, farming must always be dealt with, but the system works, and precisely this draft law proposes that the existing problems can be properly dealt with in such a way that the whole market can operate in Hungarian hands, while, of course, it must be said here that the fees are lower - this too obviously hurts the socialists - but service charges are lower than in recent years. I therefore ask that you support the bill before this House, which will help our country to create a sustainable, transparent waste management public service system, calling for a better and higher quality, uniform level of public service, with as little waste disposal as possible, which will meet the waste recovery targets set by the European Union, which will guarantee the continuity and security of the public service and maintain the results of the reduction of costs. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-13-118	I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-04-13-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, According to the new government proposal, waste charges should also enforce revenues from waste, so that they can also affect the waste charge. The government seems to be giving up the cost reduction for the first time in the field of waste management, because this could even lead to higher charges. According to the new concept of waste management public service, the obligation to bill, collect fees and pay supervisory fees will be the responsibility of the coordinating body. The reality is, however, that the solution of a failed and bad policy of the government could only be a completely new and other waste management law. Extremely unprofessional actions in recent years are slowly causing irreversible consequences and damage to this system as well. The problems are already indicated by the fact that this proposal has been a strange jubilee since the entry into force of the Waste Act on 1 January 2013, the 24th amendment to the Act as from 1 April 2016, which would have been Amendment 24, and now we are standing here at Amendment 25. I think that this is a jubilee holiday, which shows how precise, precise and professional a bill has been drawn up, which has had to be amended 25 times in three years. The public service funding is currently facing a deficit of HUF 14 billion and is on the verge of being impossible, but we have already told you this several times. At the moment, the selective collection systems created to meet the EU's obligations are loss-making, which is a luxury which Hungary, I think, cannot afford. At the annual level, companies lose a value of HUF 40 billion by dumping the useful materials of the waste, rather than extracting it, most of the time. Our country does not fulfil all of the EU's obligations, which is particularly true of the use of packaging glass. The total value of outstanding amounts classified as irrecoverable in 2014 is HUF 4.5 billion, which has not been recovered since then. With a product fee of HUF 70 billion, the amount that can be returned to the waste management public service amounts to just HUF 3.5 billion. Now, let's look at the facts. Why could this National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. have been created, which, if we look at it now, what task is it doing right now? He's gonna print bills, and he's gonna send them out to the residents. My fellow Member, Jenő Manninger, says that it must hurt the socialists that the cost of transporting waste has become cheaper. The problem is that the memory of the Hungarian people lasts for a long time, this is a problem for you, because most residents know very well that before you introduced the reduction of the rent, most municipalities in which you were in management quickly increased the cost of garbage shipments in December and then reduced the rent. Hence, people did not feel that they had to pay less, but that they felt that they had to pay much more. [[Jenő Manninger intervenes.]] By the way, it is easy to prove this with numbers, and I can see that my fellow Member Manninger will try to disprove it immediately. I think that, of course, after two of your factions are sitting here, the honor of the mundane must be protected. But I also think it says a lot that there are few people who are trying to protect it, and I think very few of you agree with this concept. [[15.20]] I think the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. simply has to say that it's going to be an account factory. All he's gonna do is collect the data, print the invoices, and send them out. Nothing else is going to happen. Nothing else is going to happen. But at least one thing is certain, this company pays its employees a gross wage of HUF 23 million a month. What will make the system cheaper? How will this system be more sustainable? What makes this system work better? If we are to send every bill from Budapest to a point in the country in the form of a cheque to the population from now on, what will the amount received from the population be less? Let's be honest, what we know in the countryside is that what happens at the moment is that in most places, local government-owned companies collect the fee for shipments of waste on a quarterly basis. When you have your personal contact, you have your personal acquaintance, then the public's willingness to pay, if you still have money, when the garbage collector goes, is much higher than a check that will come in between all the other checks, goes under the checks, and the residents will say that if I have to decide to buy my medicine, maybe I'll go to the store, or I'll buy the kid another shoe instead of the one with his nose kicked out, this check will end up at the bottom, because if we agree, people are going to take the trash anyway. I don't think it's a good solution for anyone to get a check from somewhere far away, out of impersonality. I don't know why this company is better, what you're going to use it for, or why you think the money will come in first from the point of view of the waste charge. We can see that this company has not launched any public procurement procedures as a 100% Hungarian state-owned sole owner. So what are they gonna print the bills with? It's just a naive suggestion. Or, suddenly, at the last minute, when you're really tight, you're gonna be stuck in an invitation system with a friendly company that's gonna give you printers, who's gonna take out the checks? The problem is that you can see the horse's foot sticking out in this system, and that there really is only an account factory that will not be more efficient, it will not be better, and probably no more people will pay the garbage bill. I have said many times that this is the fee that can be collected in the form of a tax at the moment. What will make this company more effective than NAV? The two ministries should probably sit down with each other and discuss what will be more effective. Someone's doing their job wrong, because we're talking about two companies, companies that you run. That's why I'm asking you if this is well thought out. At the moment, for example, the Budapest waste management company, the FKF, can finance bridge washes from its waste revenues. If this is not the case, and the proceeds are fully added to this account factory, and it will once again be returned to the company - they say to us in the countryside that what goes to Budapest will never come back, or at least not the total amount - how will we maintain this system? I think we need to think about a lot of things. We would not be surprised if from now on companies close to Fidesz-KDNP or larger companies would receive billing and receiving invoices. We wouldn't be surprised. There are very, very bad feelings and very, very bad rumors about this case. I think it would be better to think about it and really create a system that is sustainable, that people feel that this system is about them, not someone in Pest. People now feel that the Hungarian Parliament does not make laws to make their lives easier or better for them, but to make the majority have more money. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-120	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2016-04-13-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time for the garbage clinic. The popular language has already been used by the newly launched National Waste Management Coordination and Asset Management Ltd. For example, the name trash-KLIK or kukaholding is currently in the press. Of course, this is not the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, although it is comparable to it in so far as there is a forced centralisation effort that is likely to fail as well as it has failed in the field of centralisation of education. This is an unthinkable concept, an unthinkable regulation aimed at making the losses of service providers and waste management services, which are otherwise at the limit of their operation, somehow financed by the State, and in this case it means that, by subtracting asset management, invoicing and centralising revenues, it is trying to make loss-making companies zero out of profits from profitable companies, or by bringing the whole system out to zero or profitable. It seems that all this will result in companies that have so far been profitable and encouraged to profit will not be encouraged to operate economically or profitably, since profits will not remain with them, but will be taken in by the central coordinating body, and in good case will be divided among the individual organisations on a normative basis, but it is also possible that the government will enrich the bottomless budget and thus try to contribute to the creation of another central revenue. However, that is not the case at the moment, since the waste management public service is not profitable in most cases. Since the entry into force of the new waste legislation, we have seen countless examples of how these companies, or many of these companies, have come to the limits of their working capacity, as a result of the deposit contribution, the reduction of costs and many other measures. We have received many complaints from these organisations, as well as from Members of Parliament, and in everyday life we can see that this system is not good. In the first place, the domestic waste management system was not well-designed, which, in part, created large regional waste treatment consortia following EU legislation or at least the appearance of it, built large regional landfills from EU funding, which it tries to maintain in a way that is successful and sometimes less successful. The model itself is no good, and we told you that when it was introduced. But since 2010, since we've been in Parliament, on several occasions, we've said that the fact that waste is often carried to the dump site from 100 to 150 kilometers with the help of various transfer stations is extremely economical. Of course the system can't be maintained in the long run. Obviously, these costs cannot be paid to the public. While there were several smaller landfills - each major city had its own landfill - it was obviously a more economical system, but there there were environmental doubts as to whether these landfills met technical and environmental requirements. Obviously, however, this could have been resolved in a different way than Hungary has chosen. Basically, we have a problem with landfill-based waste management, most of which, to this day, still lead the household-generated municipal waste towards landfill. Selective waste collection has not fulfilled its expectations, in recent years selective waste collection has not become more effective with selective waste collection flights entering the house, has not increased the collection rate and the achievement of EU objectives has also been compromised. With this bill, with this step, these organisations may be even less encouraged to resolve this effectively and economically. Although it would be this national tukahading, or let us call it its fair name, the task of Waste Management Coordination and Asset Management Zrt. is to help us achieve or even exceed our targets for EU recovery rates, our recycling targets. [[15.30]] This would obviously also have a financial impact, since these wastes have value, which should not be treated as waste, but as waste, so as secondary raw material. In order to meet these targets, the current legislation and this direction are, in our view, inadequate. This is simply a question of how the government could no longer keep up this process, and many of the service providers have drifted to the brink of supply disruptions. However, it is a fact that there are and there are profitable operators who have been able to generate their own profits in different ways, smartly managed. They are punished by this system, so to speak, by putting these revenues in a common hat and by trying to finance loss-making companies, which are not necessarily loss-making by their own fault. There is a lot here, whether it is the size of the service area or the number of the population, and many other factors that need to be taken into account when determining the costs of the various public service charges or even the costs of the company. So domestic waste management is bleeding from more than one wound, and at the previous agenda we have mentioned in part, as the EU's principles say, that prevention is clearly the first priority in waste policy, but there is no government's ambition at the moment. Then, of course, the recycling and recycling in the material would come directly, but this is not doing very well at the moment in Hungary. And then there would be energy recovery immediately before dumping, which could also make the whole system more economical if it were to be built on such a stepwise, systematic basis and we tried to utilize the extractable energy in the waste, especially in the organic part of the waste, either in the form of biogas or in the form of thermal recovery. Then perhaps we should not face the fact that the operation of landfills requires a huge cost and, otherwise, a sufficient amount of waste. Then we would not have to worry so much about outstanding liabilities, because most of the population cannot simply pay the municipal and waste transport charges, even though they are subject to a reduction in their costs. And a lot of people are trying to get out of the system. These experiments can be seen in many places in Hungary in the form of a garbage ring surrounding the settlements. A lot of people do not want to be part of this system and, where possible, avoid the obligation to transport waste. Partly because they can't, partly because they think they can save money. Otherwise, this is not just about individuals, but also about businesses. Within the framework of this bill, the national coordinating body is now specifically referring to the service providers responsible for the disposal of municipal waste in the residential sector, to public and municipal-owned operators, and is trying to address their financial situation in some way, in our view, inadequately. The long-term situation in the sector is still not guaranteed. There's another central organ set up. Obviously, there will be costs, obviously there will be costs for billing. The fact that they are centrally carried out does not result in the billing of the service fee, the recovery of the outstanding amount, this could even result in cost savings, but at the moment we do not see why the recovery of the outstanding amounts will be more effective than when the service provider in the field has performed or tried to recover them. I don't think so. I'm sure it won't be easier for the population, it won't be better. We are witnessing another centralization that we do not want to support. Thank you very much. [[Tibor Bana applauds.]]
u2016-04-13-122	It is now possible for a two-minute speech by Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2016-04-13-123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Actually, I don't want to get into a debate here, we talked a lot about shipments of waste and recycling. But here are some things that I'd like to respond to. The first thing that my socialist colleague mentioned about the reduction of the rent was that the reduction was also a humbug, since the local authorities raised the fee at the end of the year and then reduced it on 1 January. This was the case in the socialist era, in certain price increases and reductions, but this is not exactly true. It would be nice if you'd look into certain topics. In 2014, it was stipulated that the date of April 2012 had to be taken into account. Thus, prices had to be set for more than a year. In other words, it was not possible for someone to raise it at the end of the year and then reduce it, because they had to go back to April 2012, and this was also monitored very closely from the consumer protection side to see if these reductions were respected. This is very important. And as far as the system is concerned, I obviously wouldn't want to talk about it in two minutes. I tried to save time, so I didn't explain the system in detail; it's certainly not easy to understand, so I totally understand. I'm sure we don't understand it perfectly yet. Secretary of State, I think you will answer that question as much as you can, within the framework of Parliament. But one thing's for sure, it's not an account company, it's a technical question. It is not a centralisation, as has been said here, but a coordination and an attempt to coordinate and transform this extremely fragmented and multi-faceted waste management system in a certain way, in order to achieve the objectives described previously in my speech to the lead speaker and in the spirit of a sustainable approach, as well as in the interests of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-13-124	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary; I will conclude the general debate before him and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-04-13-125	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to correct a statement on a law-breaking law, and I would very much like to ask Mrs Anita Heringes not to do that again. Bridge washing from waste, that's illegal. There is a principle of the polluter pays, and the resident pays to dispose of the waste, but there is no way to wash the bridge from it. This applies to rural settlements and applies to everything. It's not part of the public service, it's illegal. We have drawn your attention, who has spoken on this subject - I would not like to say your name - that this is so. I'd like to give you some information, although it's not about the law change again, but to see it. I would like to join my fellow Member, who had to go back to 2012 for the month of April; the person who raised also restored the pre-alignment status, and the effects of the reduction of the rent came from there. It's certain that 176 people supply, and there are 142 public services in the waste. Well, there's about 15 percent of that loss. Financially, there are problems in terms of liquidity, curfew and other things, and that's why there's a solution that's an economic solution to settling the lines. There are basic parameters: (1) financial stability, (2) compliance with EU standards in selective materials, and as few waste as possible into landfills, (3) the rights of municipalities are not affected, and (4) the public services must operate, this must be ensured. Well, within that, the wealth is measured. We can clearly see if there is still private property in the field of waste management. Yeah. For example, from a dumping point of view. On the other hand, compliance with the legislation is a matter of what are mandatory public tasks. Today, even though there is a selective system, it does not work for about 50 percent of the population. Even though there are regulations and rules, there is almost no public service that does not have any shortage of these public service elements, such as the removal of weekly green waste, or, say, de-clouding or separate treatment of green waste at all. On the other hand, we help the municipalities and help the public services by managing the outstanding liabilities. The municipalities are always there, they are available, and the notary helped in the previous period. This has changed by NAV taking over their treatment, but the current system is so complex that we are transforming this system. [[15.40]] I am negotiating with Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, and I am negotiating with the leadership of the NAV, and I hope that we can find a solution that will be more effective, faster and better. Nevertheless, the proportion of outstanding amounts decreased as a result of the reduction in the overhead costs. Besides, the experience is that, by not having a single system nationwide, many people still don't pay for waste, but just place it. We have to fix this, too, on the basis of the polluter-pays principle. The European Union, the 2020 Guidelines, which wants 50 percent recycling, strengthens this. In order to do this, the less waste goes to the dump site, so we need a system to control and manage the whole thing professionally. And the money: if we can withdraw only one part from the selective material worth about HUF 40 billion that is now in the landfill, it means HUF 4.8 billion, because we do not have to pay a dumping fee. On the other side, it works. Now, what does selective look like? There's a world market price, say, for paper or plastic, let's say 18 forints. There is a public service that quickly sells it for 6 forints. We would therefore like to standardise that we can fix a high price and liquidity situation. The other thing is the question of improvements. There are three landfills with three selections, and there is one area where, as our fellow Member has just said, we have to transport 100-150 kilometers of waste to the landfill. It's nonsense, it's not worth it. There are places where the garbage truck doesn't empty 800 dumpsters a day, and it doesn't go 25-30-40 kilometers tops, but it has to go 80 kilometers. This is not worth it, it must all be paid by people, or it must all be included in some form as a support system. This is not good, I believe that an economic, professional and financial order is absolutely necessary. There's always words like holding and KLIK and stuff like that. There is no economic activity in this regard of the company, not a holding company, no management of assets. It's either the National Asset Manager, the government asset manager, or the public service providers themselves, and they're government-owned. From the point of view of operation, I will say once again that the loss of HUF 13 billion - which is a subjective measuring tool, and I will tell you why - is created by some waste farmers. When someone shows a loss, can one safely say at the moment that, for example, a public service provider is losing money because of its good farming and is able to get out of income or is mishandled, and that's why it doesn't come out? That is why the fee regulation that finances public services will take into account the fact that the car has to go much more than the people living in the small settlement; it will take into account who does what services, how often they collect green waste, whether they carry out the activities related to the selective that must be carried out and reimburse the full cost to the service providers together with a reserve. The goal would be to avoid landfill and go in this direction. And it also fits the need for a burning strategy, which will soon be in front of the government, and that can be achieved. By bringing in an extra dumpster system and expanding the door-to-door selective, the material collected selectively increased, so it has a good effect. However, there is a positive example, let me say Győr, where by means of insular collection they can fulfil the minimally selective norm required by the European Union. You can't hurt the system, it's a well-functioning system. I believe that the professional path that is now in the direction of a standardisation - and we want to establish a uniform professional system throughout the country - must continue. I ask you to support our billing proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-13-126	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, with the title of "Fifty Shades of Corruption." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-127	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Never so many corruption issues and anti-corruption proposals could be said in the National Assembly one day, thanks to Jobbik's creative solution, which, at the same time, remained within the framework of the Rules of the House, pushing the borders, of course, but as a radical party, this is what we do. As a result of the commenting of our fine questions about fifty shades of corruption, the MSZP and János Lázár also protested, who forgot that before Christmas 2008, Fidesz and KDNP had drafted the ministries with 1300 written questions. In some of the wallets, the workers were also called for freedom to answer questions within the 15-day deadline. Among these were, for example,: in the case of you, can you be trusted? Where should we take the trash? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Well, that was the obstruction. But now the public is getting to know more and more orange barons from different scandalous news, but old faces also get to care. For the domain of pennies, a Hungarian company put 120 million forints in the pocket of the politician Attila Várhegyi. And it's just a little piece of news that doesn't fit into our 50 shades of corruption question bouquet. Attila Várhegyi was one of Fidesz's influential backseats, politicians' criminals, former president of the party's national election, also acting as Minister of State for Culture of the first Orbán government, but he was forced to resign in 2002, because the court has finally condemned him for the crime of continued, particularly high-value, fraudulent treatment, which he committed as mayor of Szolnok. It is no wonder that no member of the government remained in the Chamber, no wonder that they are not willing to listen to this, but I will continue, because according to the court ruling, Várhegyi sold several properties to the local government, at a price, to Fidesz-related entrepreneurs, which caused HUF 154 million damage to the municipality. The D.A. also accused him of partially illegally financing his mayor's campaign in Szolnok in 1994, but on this charge he was acquitted by the court. The great returning Attila Várhegyi and his family-related companies have now benefited from the content development strategy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Várhegyi companies received 120 plus HUF 90 million from public media. Márton Nobilis represented the former state advertiser Várhegyi for one of the orders, but today he is the managing director of the MTV company. One of MTVA's companies spent 120 million forints on domain names in May 2014. A total of 110 websites and domains of money were purchased from Magyar Híradó Kft., which was the majority owned by Attila Várhegyi's family members, said Népszabadság, citing Direkt36. But don't be fooled by Magyar Híradó Kft. Its name is, it's a media company just like the so-called State Printing House. Most of the domains contain a city name and the ending of hirado.hu. For a few thousand forints each, a few hundred thousand in total, such web addresses could have been accessed by public media, and any secretary could have done the administration. The 120 million-dollar assignment is explained by the public media's contribution to its content development strategy. The sites purchased for 120 million not only have the same name, but also have no technical or substantive differences, they offer the same news produced by MTI and hirado.hu free of charge. Local news is only missed on the site. Only city names differ in the logo. Visiting sites available by anyone, such as alexa.com or TrafficEstimate, indicate that the visitors of these sites are low. Magyar Híradó Kft. was very good at selling domains and websites for 120 million, the balance sheet result in the year of departure did not reach HUF 3 million, a year later it was over 6 million, but in the year of domain business it jumped to more than 109 million. Looks like it was created just for this rip-off. Or is there something else? This scandal was just one, and since January 2012, companies belonging to public media have concluded various contracts with Várhegyi or related companies ten times in total. These contracts are often drawn up in parallel, on demand. Attila Várhegyi didn't comment on the current case either, because he could and no one would ask for it. I, however, filed a complaint. Of course, I have no doubt that they will not even listen as witnesses to Várhegyi, nor will there be an investigation, as is usually the case with such unfaithful treatment. In the same way, Márton Nobilis, who has a special role in the story, has averted media interest. Until the arrival of Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, he was the president of the National Communications Office distributing state advertisements. Márton Nobilis also represented Magyar Híradó Kft. connected to Várhegyi at the time of the conclusion of the 120 million HUF deal, but since then he has been the managing director of the customer. Attila Várhegyi is also considered one of Fidesz's media outlets, and he seems to remember himself. However, we will not forget it if we come to government and we can finally be accounted for. May God grant you that. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[15.50]]
u2016-04-13-128	In response to the next agenda, Mr Lajos Kepli came forward:. Szövítvány - failure to address the government's waste strategy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-13-129	Thank you very much. In connection with the subject of our last agenda today, I am very sorry that the Secretary of State has already left, because he could have responded to what I said. He said in his closing statement that it would not actually be a central coordinating body, a newly set-up central body called the garbage-KLIK or kukaholding, nor is it a centralising body, nor does it perform asset management, but compared to that, the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. He's got a name. Well, from here on out, it's kind of interesting why they call it that if he doesn't do asset management. But the topic of my speech after today's agenda is the failure of selective waste collection, as it is one of today's burning problems: the system of home-going selective waste collection has been built in a record time, but it raises controversial questions. According to the KSH data series, municipal waste collection decreased to 800 thousand tonnes compared to one million tonnes in 2012, which is a 20-percent decline. In the capital, the transition from the collection islands could not be called smooth, as the pre-supplied: the establishment of a collection system for home-going collection started on 25 March 2013, but in many districts of Budapest, the assembly island was indisposed before collecting vessels were made available to the population. The approach of the population can be of paramount importance, as the amount of waste has also increased, but in recent years the government has done nothing on this subject. It is not enough to put what needs to be thrown on top of the selective vessels placed in households - most of the time in rural settlements there is a bag instead of a pot - but it is also important to inform people why they should do so. Of course, there are small films and leaflets on the Internet, but the proportion of citizens who have access to the Internet is not so high and not everyone uses this service in the country as a whole. The majority of the population know that they recycle their selective collection of waste, but do they know why and how it is done and why the reduction in Western European countries is so important. Nor is the re-use, re-use, or formula used, even though the government prefers to insist on the development of our country in the western way, so to speak. The primary objective would be not to produce so much waste from consumer and industrial sites, and to let people see that a lot of things can be recycled before recycling. At the time, for example, there were bottles with deposit fees, which could be used up to 30-40 times before they became waste. With regard to the FKF and international data lists, the amount of waste per capita in Hungary has decreased compared to the EU average, but with a well-functioning selective collection, one of the worst is the proportion of waste collected selectively per capita, with a very optimistic calculation of less than 10 percent. Dangerous but untreated waste produced by the population is also an important problem. These are used baking fats and oils, of which 15-20 million litres are produced annually in our country, and the removal of which has not been resolved at all; it can usually be delivered at certain fuel wells, but this cannot be called an organized transport. Unfortunately, the majority of the population still pours this into the drains today, which, by the way, is extremely damaging to the environment and to the sewage treatment itself. In addition, baking fat would also be used as a biodiesel raw material if otherwise collected. As we know, Fidesz has seen environmental protection as a major source of income for years, thus also acting in the case of waste management. The latest idea is the nationwide system, centralization can generate significant sums of money for the government. In the system that has been in place so far, there has been an impossibility for market players, while the government has borne a lot of taxes and contributions to waste management companies, such as electronic tolls, deposit charges and supervisory fees, in addition to the cost reduction from a residential point of view, by making certain companies not able to raise prices for years; this is, of course, a favourable aspect for the general public. According to Minister of State Zsolt Szabó, at present almost one third of the 171 public service providers operate at a loss. Let us not forget that the Fidesz government's inconsistent policy in the field of waste management is also responsible for the situation, and you are the ones who distributed the costs of collection between waste management providers unevenly, causing the disaster of the later system. So there is also work to be done in the field of waste management. It is a pity that there is not a single MP left to listen to my words. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-13-130	Member Gergely Farkas applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. The opinion of the students in the Parliament should also be expressed. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of his campaign, called Part Four. Now four congressmen can listen to this in the benches. You have the floor.
u2016-04-13-131	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This is the fourth part of our campaign, in which I would like to read to the decision-makers the quotes from students, which have come to us again. Before I do this, I have to respond to the fact that, during my last similar speech, Szilárd Németh shouted out that we should write these quotes for ourselves. All I can tell you is who lives and who sees it. So just because these methods work with Szilárd Németh and his party, Jobbik doesn't work that way, and fortunately, young people trust us, unlike Fidesz; I believe that Szilárd Németh must be weird to have a relationship with young people. He's reached out to the Fidesz. Luckily, they've been in contact with us. They believe Jobbik is authentic according to a recent research, and they trust us, which is why they're sending us their opinions, which I'd like to quote now. One of the quotes. Milán would like to see an educational system, I quote:, in which we do not follow an unchangeable curriculum from the national center, because they are not able to see what we need from the center, if they do not keep in touch with the lower layers regularly., Balázs criticizes the much-torn KLIK, which, by the way, does not seem to be lost, only to be transformed. He writes, and I quote, "The Klebelsberg Institutional Support Project, in which the government has invested heavily, not only doesn't make any profit, but it's even more wasted than the local authorities maintaining schools. A lot of complaints remain about the overload, one of the students puts it this way: The 8-9 hours a day are so stressful that by the end of the day, we have almost no strength left. In addition, who has 8 hours a day gets up at 6:00 a.m. to get to school at 8:00 a.m., finishes at 15.30 a.m., then goes to practice as well as I do, " says the young student, "I'll be home at 6:00 a.m., spend half the day elsewhere, not at home with the family, but at school. Balázs raises a legitimate question about everyday physical education: the state expects us to be athletic, strong, healthy... But how, if we don't get the things we need to do that? For example, the design of sports fields where physical education lessons could be held. In his comment Csaba writes, he finds it ridiculous that, I quote, several textbooks are either completely useless or full of interesting, but useless facts, or in worse cases old, already contradicted statements. In terms of the quality of textbooks, as is said among students, there are numerous complaints and criticisms from both students and teachers about the quality of spooky textbooks. Norbert also complained about this when he wrote, "Our teachers do not teach from the book, because they consider them to be wrong or wrong."András wrote in his suggestion: "In some foreign schools, they introduced a later start of the day, not at 8:00 or earlier, but at 9:00. The end of the day will be 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. It would also be appropriate to introduce it in Hungary, as this would improve the performance of students. András writes. This is difficult to do while keeping hours, or even with a minimal reduction, but an interesting point. The 12th-grade student of a high school would like to share the following experiences with the National Assembly:. The government brought in everyday physical education in 2012, in which I had to participate. I've found that even though students are obligated to more physical education, it doesn't work. It doesn't fit in the schedule, and that's the only reason a lot of students have zero hours or eight or nine hours. Because of the tight schedule, there are several classes to be together in an hour, and there's no room in the gym. He also writes in point 2 that:. The subjects should be updated. For example, in my first three years of history, we learned to a large extent things that happened thousands of years ago or about thousands of years ago, and only in my last year have I learned what really happened. I think we should play a much bigger role in recent events. "Matthew," writes. [[16.00]] Attila's suggestion is this:, I would suggest in relation to education that in general and/or high school, we should have a household education course where students can learn basic household knowledge, such as washing, cooking, cleaning, and possibly agricultural knowledge. Why would that be important? I'm talking to a lot of students 18 to 20 years of age or older who don't know anything about these things, and they start their lives in capitals without any knowledge that could cause them to be uncomfortable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's all I could fit into today's speech. I continue to encourage young people to take advantage of this opportunity. Their opinion should also be expressed in the Parliament, and even through our website, your Jobbikit.hu/Hallasdahang will be sent here through our activists, and we will inform the National Assembly about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-13-132	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We'll continue our work next week at 11:00. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:01 p.m.]]
