u2021-04-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, April 12th Memorial Day, commemoration of the people who were displaced from the Highlands, at the meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Parliament, Today, on 12 April, we commemorate the nearly 100,000 Hungarians who were relocated from their homeland to Hungary as a result of the great agreements following the Second World War. We also remember those who were deported to forced labour in the Czech Republic during that period, but even in that situation of suffering they tried to preserve their Hungarians. At the Potsdam Conference of June 1945, closing World War II, an agreement was reached, among other things, to implement the ethnic unification of the newly established Czechoslovakia as a winner of the war by means of a mutual exchange of populations. German and Hungarian minorities living in the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic were not allowed to be displaced unilaterally, and had to be resolved by an exchange of populations without any border change. Accordingly, the Czechoslovak authorities were able to relocate as many Hungarians to the territory of Hungary as the Hungarian citizens of Slovakia were then willing to voluntarily relocate to Czechoslovakia. This exchange agreement between the two countries was signed in February 1946. Unilateral, violent ethnic Homogenisation began before the signing of the Convention. Seventy-four years ago, i.e. on 12 April 1947, the first trains were launched, which transported the displaced Hungarian families to Hungary. The tens of thousands of Hungarian families had to leave behind their houses, their cultivated lands, the community in which they had lived for centuries, the tombs of their ancestors and their ancestors. Dear House, The parliamentary decision adopted nine years ago, which made this day a memorial day, also expresses its support for the organisation of events related to evacuation from the Highlands and the transfer of knowledge on historical events. The history of Hungarians in the Highlands is part of the history of Hungarians. It is the duty of each of us to cherish their traditions and historical memory. So let us bow our heads to our fellow countrymen and their descendants whose fate was sealed on this day and who were forced to start their lives again in their new homeland. We cultivate and preserve their traditions, culture, their history and history. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from approximately 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions and from 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to thank those involved in the fight against the epidemic, I wish the hospital to get well as soon as possible, and we express our sincere condolences to the families and friends of the deceased. In addition to the worst mortality figures in the world, good things happened here last week. At last, a Hungarian Roma man, a Gypsy hero, was named public square in Hungary. At last, Béla Putzi was placed in his rightful place in the Hungarian memory, following the initiative of the Association, following the decision of the Municipality of Budapest. Because Béla Putzi was a hero, who saved many Hungarian lives in Transylvania by performing, he is bound by the famous saying, "Don't be afraid, Hungarians, because here come the Gypsies! After he cried out, he defended the Hungarians in Marosvásárhely from the uproared mob. Unfortunately, he has not received much recognition so far, although we need many of these Roma heroes to reduce prejudices and stereotypes that affect our fellow Roma countrymen. Béla Putzi can help you do that, and Béla Putzi Square can help you do that, because from now on, if a small child walks by and asks his parents who he was, he will finally hear a good example of a gypsy man. Others, however, received recognition recently, Professor László Gulyás of Szeged. It wouldn't be worth talking about any of the silly things that the professor has long said in his classes, but the Fidesz government recently awarded him the Knight's Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit, which means Gulyás is a man of current power. And a state medal says to society that he is a wearer, his work is exemplary. The exemplary historian, who, by the way, teaches teachers of the future, said among other things that he hated Gypsies, and that man's color was white. Of course, man's skin is not only white; it can be brown like Béla Putzi, who was a gypsy person and a Hungarian person. The professor also said that there is no culture in Africa, no civilization. Such a stupidity could not have been said at a worse time when they danced to an African song, Jerusalema, all over the world, including in Hungary, to give hope in this deadly pandemic. The video produced by Bethesda Children's Hospital employees cannot be watched without touching. I'd rather not say your sexist, woman-demeaning quotes, they're just primitive. The professor didn't deny these accusations, he didn't deny them, he didn't apologize, he said he only represented the national civil conservative values. After that, I wouldn't be surprised if Professor Gulyás was soon to be a celebrated hero if Zsolt Bayer was a guest on News TV or Balázs Bende on public television as a victim who couldn't give his conservative national opinion because otherwise he would be attacked. But let us be clear: from here, from the Hungarian Parliament, we send a message to Professor Gulyás that these are neither national nor conservative nor civic values, these are the values of an outdated age. This is not the kind of Hungary we want. The Dialogue wants a Hungary where not the one who shares the nation is awarded a medal, but the one who saves lives; where there are more gestures, more appreciation and acceptance, especially today, when we are most dependent on each other in this deadly pandemic: Roma and not Roma, conservatives and liberals, we Hungarians. Ferenc Deák said this best, who said that he should be loved by a series of common, useful, welfare-enhancing actions, not instigating thoughts, but inciting Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I suggest you consider the statement of your home country. Thank you for the floor. [[11.10]]
u2021-04-12-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We're always happy to talk about Gypsy heroes, Gypsy role models. Perhaps you too, when you walk around Budapest this is still close to the Grand Boulevard, so even you may have seen the space named after the Gypsy musicians, where you can see a lot of role models, too. And you can also see that whether it was 1956 or any other national turn of events, every time the government remembers, Gypsy heroes are often presented with separate publications and a separate poster campaign. Exactly in order to show how the history of Gypsy and Hungarian history was interwoven, and that there were artists, various Roma leaders, who fought for the freedom of Hungarians and for the independence of Hungarians, whether in 48 or 56 at the time of the change of regime, from here to beyond, but together with the Hungarians. It is just, you know, honourable Member, that this kind of commitment would have been welcome here in Parliament three weeks or four weeks ago, when Peter Niedermüller, the mayor who you supported, took the 100 Gypsy Orchestras from his traditional practice site in no time. Then you were silent, then you lay low, then you didn't speak, then nothing bothered you, then you didn't mention how much the 100 Gypsy Orchestra has been a role model to everyone for over 30 years, and how many people look up to the performance they've put on the table. Then he did not mention that they were known worldwide, a Hungaricum, a national value that must be guarded and protected, not put on the streets, but that he then fell into the great silence on the left, and he did not say anything about the fact that one of Hungary's very well-known orchestras, the 100 members of the Gypsy Orchestra, should perhaps not be runaway from one moment to the next. Then you listened silently, neither spoke against Péter Niedermüller, nor did Gergely Christmas say that it might be worth placing in a district or a capital real estate, but a Fidesz-KDNP mayor from Budafok and EMMI helped to alleviate their financial problems by HUF 30 million, or to find a new place of practice on the other side of the Danube. Mr President, your speech would be truly credible if you spoke when, say, it was the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members. Not to mention that you have joined forces here in Parliament and in the municipal elections, which I am talking about Jobbik in 2010, but I suppose you suspect that you have entered the Hungarian Parliament by attacking Gypsyism and attacking Jewishism. And Péter Niedermüller posted the 100 Gypsy Orchestra and Europe's only Jewish television, Weekly TV. Honourable Congressman, These thoughts should be discussed first with the allies of the Jobbikos, who entered in Hungarian Guard uniforms and wanted to create fear between Hungarians and Hungarians. You rightly said that this country must be a peaceful country. We all agree with that, sober-minded people. The words you quoted are not acceptable to us if someone speaks abusively of any of your compatriots because of their different origins or any other thing. These are basic things that we obviously don't accept. But why did you conspire with a party whose members, their leaders, spoke of nothing but Gypsy criminals, Gypsy crime, Jewishism, the Holocaust was called into question, and here in Parliament they wanted to list Jewish politicians? Then where was this kind of sensitivity, honourable Member? And now, when you have political survival, the Dialogue is not the leading party of the left, although it is extremely loud, but nevertheless it is not the leading force of the left, now that we are talking about political survival, then together you will hold the hand of the besties at their various events, demonstrations and other political actions. Why doesn't it bother you that you're conspiring with a party whose basic philosophy is what you're rejecting here in the context of a university lecture? If you reject the content of the lecture at the university, honourable Member, I agree that you will reject it, then at the next moment reject those better politicians who have said the same, same words. There's no difference between the professor's lecture and the betterman's political program. The professor is condemned by you, he's conspiring with the good guys. Where's the consistency in you? Where's the whole left-hand side of any kind of posture? What's the last core of the left if they turn a blind eye to anti-Semitism and say that's how Jobbik can come, because now they're our political interests? Congressman, at least keep it consistent. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-4	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Several Fidesz programs included the sentence that sovereignty is the country's most valuable asset. I think that this could be a very nice foundation that everyone in this House agrees with. What violates national sovereignty has changed dynamically with the Fidesz government. At times, the EU law on pálinka brewing violated sovereignty, perhaps a university launched by a Hungarian citizen, or the College of Acting Arts; it has always changed who violates national sovereignty. I would like to draw your attention to an extremely large double standard that is applied to the protection of national sovereignty. The government announced that it was moving a campus of Fudan University in Shanghai to Budapest. The University of Fudan is a very high-quality university, which is at the forefront of several rankings, and from this point of view it may seem good for Hungarian scientific life and science policy. At the same time, there are some problems here, and I would like to recall them first, and then I would like to get to the point. One is that 540 billion will be a part of this, and this 540 billion loan and spending means that they will spend more on this than the 2019 Hungarian higher education budget. In addition, it turns out that this campus will be the place and place of the student town built in Ferencváros. So instead of spending Hungarian public money on Hungarian students and Hungarian colleges, Hungarian public money will be spent on the University of the Chinese Communist Party. But I still haven't come to the real problem, I'm here. The main problem is this. It has been announced in this pre-contractual or cooperation agreement that there will be diplomatic training at this university. I do not think that I would be too conteous to say that a foreign-funded and supervised diplomat training is a significant violation of national sovereignty. I have a few questions about that. Let us begin by saying that this training, which will be called diplomatic training, will be of greater amount of resources and more people than all other international relations training in Hungary. My first question is that the students who graduated here will participate in the work of the Hungarian diplomatic faculty. My second question is whether or not students who graduated here will be able to participate in the European Union diplomatic institutions or NATO and other allied diplomatic institutions. The issue is important because in 2019 the Chinese Communist Party removed freedom of thought and science from the Charter of the University and wrote two principles, one being that the doctrines of Marxism-Leninism must be complied with, and the other being that the interests of the Chinese Communist Party should be followed. My question is that such a university should serve to train Hungarian diplomats who will be able to operate in accordance with the national interests of Hungary. I would also like to ask you a question that I will probably not be able to answer at an open session here, but I suppose I will not be able to get an answer at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee: are you prepared for the additional burden to address these incoming Chinese teachers, incoming Chinese students and Chinese secret service actors? Is there a sufficient number of people in counterintelligence who can even speak Chinese so that they can analyze the recorded documents? These are important questions. Here, in connection with the previous comment, each time a book is banned in a very bad way at a University of Western Europe, or it is said that an author cannot be taught, then all the county papers from Origo through Mandiner tell us that the freedom of science in Western Europe has ended. [[11.20]] My question is that you can guarantee, Mr Secretary of State, at Fudan University, that Tienanmen Square can be said, or you can say how many victims Communist terror has. Could Mao Ce-tung say how many millions of people he killed? Is this part of the freedom of science in Hungary? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] In general, it cannot be said because it is in the charter of the university that the Chinese Communist Party and Marxism-Leninism must comply. Overall, you see a reduction in national sovereignty in everything, but in the fact that the university supervised by the Chinese Communist Party is going to conduct diplomatic training in Hungary in a manner supervised by the Chinese Communist Party, and you believe that this does not reduce national sovereignty, this is a very high level of double standards compared to you. The fact is that, obviously, it is okay to do business with China or establish foreign policy relations with China in any way, but if Péter Medgyessy had done this, what you are doing now, Péter Szijjártó would have held a press conference in some river already in shorts.
u2021-04-12-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that it is strange when higher education questions are being pushed from the left in the National Assembly, because they were your allies, and for this reason, you are also struggling to introduce a tuition fee in Hungarian higher education. The left wants a tuition fee for Hungarian higher education. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Only the civilian government has succeeded in stopping this, by the way. In addition, it is the left that has sold Hungarian universities with PPP schemes. [[Delight and applause in the opposition benches. Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is what the civil national government had to pay to free universities from this burden. So it is strange that you are beginning to reveal in Parliament the quality of higher education, the development of higher education. I heard the congressmen yelling at me. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that while the left is indebted to universities, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] We're just gonna get them a fortune. We will allow you to function more freely and in a better way. Honourable Congressman, He asked a really important question about internationalising higher education. This is what Hungary is interested in at the bottom of your speech, so that Hungarian higher education can be better. I think the answer to that is that we both agree that it is in your interest. [[Peter Ungár constantly intervenes.]] For the nations whose higher education is successful will be successful, which will be able to provide the necessary knowledge for their own young people. These nations will be competitive, and these nations will be successful. That is why we are working to strengthen higher education, which is why we want Hungarian higher education to be more competitive, and therefore we are providing HUF 1500-2000 billion for the development of Hungarian higher education. Mr. Congressman, behind your question, if I remove the malicious innuendos from it, then the point was that it was in the interest of a country's higher education to have international competition if successful international higher education institutions from other countries were to appear in that country. Our answer to that is that it is of interest that this is good. It is in the interest of Hungarian young people and Hungarian people to have higher education institutions in Hungary, which also achieve outstanding results in international competition. If MIT, Harvard, Yale, or you could say existing and real universities who lead international rankings, they would say that they would like to start training in Hungary, they would like to work with Hungarian young people, they would like to work with Hungarian researchers and we would support them to the maximum. Congressman, it's a university like this. Fudan University is the 34th best higher education institution in the world; it is a university whose decision we can be proud of that they chose Hungary to create campus for the first time in Europe, and practically outside China, and to launch higher education courses. We are talking about a university that is part of international scientific blood circulation. It has countless international connections, including several universities in the United States or the United Kingdom, starting with MIT. The question is, it's in our interest to have him here. [[Péter Ungár: That is not the question!]] Interests, Your Honour. It is in the interests of Hungarian young people, Hungarian researchers, that the university should come to Hungary, as more and better research will be possible beyond higher education, with Chinese partners. New research groups can be created, new research will be created, which will also lead to major investments. Partly Hungarian companies will be able to invest more easily in China and partly Chinese companies will invest more easily in Hungary. It is clear and clear: we benefit from this development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Oláh, DK Group, has asked for a speech: . Helping everyone to be vaccinated must be cancelled with the title "registration". You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's why the congressmen laugh, because they know they're deceiving the country. All the research shows that opposition voters are far more pro-vaccination than Fidesz; perhaps it is not a coincidence. It also shows that you lie all the time, honourable Members of the Fidesz. People living in extreme poverty, the disadvantaged, are more brutally affected by the epidemic than the wealthy. First of all, they lost their jobs, and even though the opposition parties, DK, have repeatedly asked for it, you have not given substantial support to those who have lost their jobs. In addition to the social disaster, it is now apparent that they are in a much worse situation in terms of vaccination. We see, we read how difficult their situation is. The government said he wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road, but now he's doing it to the poorest. They feel that way. We see the brutal death numbers, but many people, if they wanted to, wouldn't be able to make a move on the registration. We see that 291 people died in Hungary on Sunday, and people are afraid. Honourable Members, Their fear is justified, because in Europe Hungary's mortality statistics are terrifying; I said: while 291 are dead in Hungary, in Poland 61, in the Czech Republic 43, in Belgium 45, in Austria 19, in Slovakia 65, in Lithuania 9, in Estonia 9. Now, you have not yet been able to respond to this in Parliament, honourable State Secretary, how can this be Hungary's list leader, if you have managed so well to deal with the epidemic, by the way! On the proposal of opposition parties to simplify vaccination, you just said Gyurcsány. That was their answer, but it does not help the poorest who cannot get a vaccine. They don't even know who to turn to, and without the Internet, they can't register. But if there is an Internet, in many cases filling is also a problem. There are settlements in the country where most people can't solve this. And there are such areas not only in the countryside, but also in Budapest; we must help them! Several reports have been received from various social and media sites on how distressing the situation is between disadvantaged people and those living in extreme poverty because of the coronal virus epidemic. There is no money for drugs or prevention in these regions or communities for vitamins, balanced, healthy diets, there is often no way for normal cleaning, and basically these people are in a worse health condition. It is also a serious problem that in Hungary there is a shortage of permanent general practitioners in many settlements, which is why they can't even turn to whom for help. In addition, registration for vaccination has been difficult for them, since they only accept registration from older people in a letter, but there is no access to the Internet for those living in extreme poverty. Again, they may understand the problem of people living in extreme poverty and support the initiative of opposition parties, DK, to abolish the prior registration for vaccination against the coronal virus, so that everyone has an equal chance of obtaining the vaccine as soon as possible. [[11.30]] Not the Kubatov list, but the protection of the Hungarian people! And if you refuse to get rid of the data collection disguised as registration, help those in need, the disadvantaged, in this way! Help speed up the process, take injection points, open the stadiums for this purpose, they can be used at least once for intelligent things. Let's just go to the fire point and give the people a shot. We in Elisabeth and Teresa started our work so that we could inoculate as many disadvantaged people as possible. Of course, it would also help if you would tell me how many people in the district have been vaccinated. But you, ladies and gentlemen, are also refusing to tell us how many people are vaccinated in a given district. What's the big secret? Well, why can't you just say that? ! They're not even willing to tell us how many people died in a particular district or how many people are quarantined. Why are they keeping secrets? As a Member of the Parliament of Elizabeth and Terézváros, I can say that in the district we will do everything we can to ensure that these people living in extreme poverty are not left without help. I ask you, gentlemen of the State Secretary, not to look at the municipalities as an enemy, because unfortunately, it involves sacrifices. The local authorities are always giving you hands to cooperate with regard to vaccination, and you always hit this hand. Don't do this, let's help those living in extreme poverty together. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-04-12-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As regards the protection and vaccination of the most vulnerable people, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that government agencies also help them register, and citizens over the age of 60, if there is no internet access, have received the registration form several times by post, so they have the opportunity to register in several ways. How health care otherwise affects them, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you wanted to make health care pay. If the health system were to be paid, all patients with coronal viruses would have to pay for the test. Perhaps there is no discussion between us that, in these weeks, virtually all the issues, both the fight against the epidemic, the economic struggle and everyday life, depend on where we stand with the vaccination programme. And I have to say, while you know this very well, the cynicism and hypocrisy you're doing about vaccinations has turned me into a turbo-grade. Especially since you've practically, if I look at it right, been widely submitted, but in the public eye consistently [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] They're going after the vaccination program. Now they want to abolish registration; the registration through which four million people have already indicated that they would like to use the vaccine; the registration that will enable every general physician to know exactly who would like to use the vaccine. Has it been assessed what would result if vaccinations were carried out without any registration or prior consultation? Do you think there'd be crowds in the GP's office? What would it mean if doctors had to call those who didn't want to take the vaccine, what burden would that entail? Or maybe it's been assessed, but you don't care because your anti-vaccination campaign is more important. But that's not the only serious element of your anti-vaccination campaign. Let me ask you this: when you look at international examples, because they refer to international examples, have you looked into the fact that there are mass vaccination points in many places because there is no such uniform medical system as in Hungary? Did they do that? When Gergely Christmas posted from a German stadium, did she bother to see how Germany was doing? In the area of graftation, half of Germany has travelled as Hungary, half as much as Hungary, and this country is referred to as this country. But this is not the only element of their anti-vaccination campaign: not long ago, a decision-making proposal was submitted to the House, which would practically prohibit the use of the Chinese vaccine. Since the Russian vaccine was also campaigned against elsewhere, it is easy to predict that the left has deprived the Hungarians of one million vaccines in the last few weeks, so much less people would have been vaccinated. It's not pro-vaccination, it's severed, black belted, certified, doctorate-graded anti-vaccination. That's the thing. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Why are so many dead?]] If you do not believe, look at the decision proposal, and if you ask why we should bring up Ferenc Gyurcsány, we bring up Ferenc Gyurcsány because if you look at the anti-vaccination decision proposal and you look at who signed it, the first place is Ferenc Gyurcsány's name. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Why are so many dead?]] Take a look at this and tell me how to imagine this. Does the Democratic Coalition figure out that they're going to come up with an anti-vaccination resolution and everyone signs off on all the opposition parties? Everyone? Will James Peter sign without question, sign Szabó Timea and 47 other left representatives? There wasn't one congressman among you who would have said that, although we disagreed with the government on several points, we shouldn't have done that? Wasn't there just one? None? It is a classic fact that, while such a proposal for a resolution has been tabled, practically all left-wing leaders have been vaccinated and some have submitted a vaccine against which a resolution proposal has been submitted to this House. By the way, I see that Gyurcsány-listed Members often make joint videos, and I see that this is already becoming a custom, and if that is the case, then we have a proposal for a topic: the following video should be dedicated to jointly announcing the withdrawal of their anti-vaccination decision. They are not trying to cover their tracks, as in the case of the petition, but to stand up, take a deep breath, and report that they are withdrawn. All other options are just proof that in the middle of an epidemic, the entire left is campaigning against vaccinations. It's a nasty story, but it looks like they can make it darker. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, MSZP Group, asked for a speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a simple human law: those who have the least should not be taken away from them. You don't have to explain this to people who feel good, because if you give bread to a hungry person, you shouldn't break it down. The minimum wage belongs to this category precisely, since the minimum wage is available, which unfortunately barely covers living in Hungary. However, the Fidesz government is taxing it. Now, even during a terrible epidemic, when you need help, instead, you're lost. The minimum wage people will be deprived of the same amount of tax as Lőrinc Mészáros. According to the MSZP, and I think it's unfair, it goes against all moral laws. The MSZP therefore proposes that the minimum wage be exempt and that the tax on low salaries be reduced. I repeat: the minimum is no longer to be taken. But if this argument is not enough for you, I will give you some examples of the Hungarian minimum wage. Thanks to the last 11 years' policy of the Fidesz regime, the Hungarian minimum wage within the European Union is one of the least, and even if the Visegrad countries are taken into account, it is the smallest. In fact, both the Slovak, Czech and Polish, but now the Romanian minimum wage is higher than the Hungarian minimum wage. And even though they mention the 4-percent minimum wage increase, which is not even 4 per cent, only 3.6 per cent, if you look at how much food prices have risen, you can say that twice as much as the minimum wage. And not least, thanks to Fidesz' forint-weakening policy, the Hungarian minimum wage in euro is now worth less than a year ago. What kind of government taxes even the smallest salary? Consider an example. If parents earn a minimum wage in a two - earning family, we can see that this income is not sufficient to cover the minimum subsistence for that family. Today, more than two million people live under the minimum living standards in Hungary, and many of them work and are without a lot of workers. This can't stay like this. Safe living is what we all get. We say that one of the smallest minimum wages in Europe should not be taxed, the tax burden of the Hungarian minimum wage is therefore proposed by the Parliament to abolish it. Let's move to eliminate the 15 percent sja-terhet at the minimum wage. This way you can get 25 110 HUF more on the minimum wage in the pocket of employees, so you can get more money. That's 300,000 forints a year. This would also mean that those living on a guaranteed minimum wage could take home more than 200 thousand forints a year. That way, we could start catching up on low wages and eliminate workers' poverty. [[11.40]] In our proposal, this should be eliminated in such a way that workers receive a tax credit equal to 15 per cent. This also means that the net value of the minimum wage is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, In this case, the tax credit would run out up to the median wage, which is now 321 thousand forints. So the 2 million 300 thousand employees who earn below the median wage would all be better off than they are now. After such an epidemic, in the middle of an epidemic, with economic consequences, such unemployment, this would be possible, since it would cost HUF 250-300 billion. We are talking about the Chinese university, which is supported by the Hungarian government with HUF 500 billion. But we could also mention the Mathias Corvinus Foundation, which received HUF 500 billion in state assets for its operation. But you can say the Hungarian Electric Works, and I will not begin to mention how you have saved your oligarchs in the past. So it would be money. If we do not support this proposal, we will do so after 2022. That is why we say that we need a change of government and a change of era so that Hungarian people can have more money. For our future, for Hungary!
u2021-04-12-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The truth is, it's always weird when anyone from the socialist benches on the left gets up and starts talking about tax issues. Honourable Congressman, Well, it was you who constantly raised taxes in Hungary! It was you who taxed the Hungarian people, put terrible burdens on the shoulders of Hungarian businesses, while driving Hungarian people into foreign exchange loans, and, as a result of your unsuccessful governance, Hungary was on the verge of bankruptcy by 2010. Honourable Congressman, After that, you're gonna stand up and try to blame us? If we look at what your performance is, we can clearly see: a tax increase, the abuse of Hungarian people and the pursuit of foreign currency loans. Honourable Congressman, But we also see that this is not just the past. That's what you want to do right now. You want to introduce a multi-key tax, you want to increase corporate tax. Tell us how much you want to cripple Hungarian businesses, how you want to ruin Hungarian competitiveness! But you also want to reduce the family home-building discount. They do not want to help Hungarian families. You do not want good for the Hungarian families. They just want to take more and more taxes, more and more money. What other taxes do you want to raise, Congressman? Stand up and tell us what taxes you want to raise. Let the Hungarian people hear what taxes the Socialist Party, the Left, is trying to raise right now, what additional burdens the Hungarian families want to put on their shoulders! Honourable Congressman, But let us look specifically at the performance of your governance. You have raised the minimum wage by only HUF 23 500 during 8 years of government. 23,500 forints, Your Honour. The national government, on the other hand, raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 167 400 by 2021. That's a 127 percent increase. We have therefore doubled the minimum wage since 2010. Do we have to lift it any more? Would you like to raise it further? Yeah, we'd love to. Honourable Congressman, Let's see what happened to the minimum wage: since 2010, we have raised it 2.5 times, from HUF 89 500 to HUF 219 thousand. Congressman, this is the performance of the national civilian side in contrast to what you have done. Despite this tremendous increase, you have been able to raise the minimum wage by HUF 23 500 in a total of 8 years. Honourable Congressman, You know very well that the minimum wage is a very important issue, a question where the Hungarian government has the right strategy to try to promote and then take into account an agreement between employers and workers called social partners. This was also the case in 2021 when the social partners, employers and workers together tried to find a solution that was acceptable to everyone. Our goal has been, and our goal has always been, to facilitate this negotiation process, which is why we are constantly consulting these actors, but we believe that the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy requires that employers and workers be able to agree with each other. Indeed, with the help of the government, this agreement was reached on 25 January 2021, when the wage agreement was signed by a majority of employers and employees' representatives. The government respects this wage agreement. We respect, honourable Member, the agreement between employers and workers, because we believe that this is the best way for the government to help Hungarian families, and this is the best way to help Hungarian businesses and the Hungarian economy. This is why we are pleased that the gross amount of the minimum wage was able to increase by another 4 percent from the beginning of February 2021, even if we can see that the problems caused by the virus are making the lives of many players in the economy more difficult. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group has asked for the title of sin. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For more than a year, Hungarian people have been fighting the virus. For over a year, you've been ruling with full power. You said you'd take responsibility for everything. Now it turns out that you have deceived people, abused their power, and abandoned the families in distress. Viktor Orbán himself said not long ago that the government and the Prime Minister have all the responsibility for dealing with the epidemic, that is, and that they will take responsibility for it. Then it turned out that Viktor Orbán was not telling the truth either, because they do not want to take responsibility for the serious epidemic, the very high mortality data, but rather try to turn it on the opposition. It was announced when other times than on Easter, because you are such a very large Christian, that you are starting a campaign, that the opposition is responsible for the situation. It doesn't matter whether it was you and you are constantly in a decision-making position, not the opposition. But that crappy opposition dared to ask questions about the epidemic situation, questions that were largely raised in society regarding the management of the epidemic, the treatment of health care, vaccinations, but you believe that this opposition has raised doubts and mistrust in society. No, dear fellow Members. There is uncertainty in society, not because the opposition has asked questions, but because you have been making bad decisions for more than a year, day by day, and are talking nonsense. There's uncertainty in them because when they didn't have to close, you closed when you weren't supposed to open, you were open when you were supposed to test, you weren't tested when there was less point in testing, and then you started testing with steam. There is uncertainty in them because one day Muller Cecília said that it was not recommended for healthy people to wear masks, and the next day they made masks mandatory for everyone everywhere, even in the open air. There is uncertainty in them because Gulyás Gergely said that everyone is free to infect each other if they are not old, at most risk the symptoms of a flu. Then it turned out that it wasn't true, and young people, otherwise healthy people, could die from the virus. There is uncertainty in them because Viktor Orbán said that those who get sick will be cured, and unfortunately now more than 20,000 of our countrymen have died. There is uncertainty, because Viktor Orbán said that no one should go to Dubai and exotic places, because from there dangerous viruses can be introduced into the country, and a week after his sentences his friend, his wallet, Lőrinc Mészáros, kept his engagement in Dubai, and the private plane used by the NER riders has been flying to exotic countries almost nonstop ever since. [[11.50]] There is uncertainty in people because they haven't been able to drink coffee on the terrace of a restaurant for a long time because it's forbidden, and the hosts are starving to death while they see that the casinos have people on top of each other because they're Fidesz interests, so there's no danger of the virus. There is uncertainty, because at one of the most serious times of the epidemic, when it was possible to fear the collapse of health care, you put health workers in a position where nearly 5,000 workers were forced to leave health care. There is uncertainty in them, because on the day when the number of deaths so far was highest in Hungary, Viktor Orbán announced that we would open on the very day. There is uncertainty, because when faced with the devastating news that there is a 14-year-old victim of the virus, Orbán announced that he would oppose virologists, health and education professionals to open schools, risking the lives of our children and teachers. And the reason there is uncertainty in them is that when they see people dying in large numbers constantly, and they do everything they are asked to do to keep distance from them, mask, curfew, then Hungary announces, at the direction of Orbán, that we are going to organize a married Eb match full here as the only country. It doesn't matter if we risk the lives of tens of thousands again, the point is for the bright-eyed driver to have a good time in the VIP box, that the house is full. Well, that's why there's uncertainty and fear in people, not because of the opposition. The government's failed crisis management, the government's inadequacy, there's uncertainty and fear, because they see that when it's supposed to be done, you're incapable of doing so. It's no use trying to distract me. What you've done is a sin, and sin deserves punishment, which will catch up with you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-04-12-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, For more than a year now, Hungary has been fighting a coronal virus epidemic against its health and economic effects. I can also inform you in response to your speech that the vaccination program is on schedule. I hope that, although there are not many areas left in Parliament where we can agree, this is, however, an area on which I think agreement should be maintained. The best way to fight the coronal virus is to fight the vaccinations. The vaccine is the cure, and there's a race in the world to see who can first graft their own population, their own people, and thus get out of the world's bad situation that every country is involved in. I can inform you that in this respect Hungary, thanks to God, does not look bad, we are in the final line: the number of vaccinated people is 2 million 900 thousand, more than 1 million 217 thousand of them have already received the second vaccination. In one month, the number of vaccinees increased by two and a half times, and we will continue this program. By the way, with this programme and the 29 percent graft, we are at the forefront of the European Union at the moment, as the EU average is 15 percent. I would also like to thank everyone who is involved in the vaccination programme, the work of health care workers, general practitioners, government officials is key and at the moment represents the first front of protection. He also mentioned economic issues. If I do not agree to the debate here on concrete measures, obviously between us, let me mention a few facts as to where we stand on this issue. For last year, which was already the year affected by the coronal virus epidemic, GDP data are available, and this clearly shows that the Hungarian crisis management was better than the crisis management in the European Union, we did better than the average of the European Union, but unfortunately we can only measure it in the rate of decline, but this is much smaller than in most EU countries. There is another number that I would like to suggest to your attention: for growth prospects, I am not talking about our statistics, but about our statistics, but about European Union statistics, they are quite clear, they say that Hungary's growth prospects are much better than the EU average. This is also supported by unemployment data, which is crucial to keep and protect as many jobs as possible. However, listening to his speech, I think that you, right-wing Members and the left-wing opposition, do not really understand what the problem is. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Ah!]] and why we consider the behaviour of the left to be unacceptable. [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] . The fact is, honourable Member, that there is a struggle going on here, this is a struggle between life and death, and in these life and death struggles, you are baking your political stew. They don't do anything else, they don't support the defense, they work against it: they attack the defense because they think it's in their political interest. In this context, they are clearly conflicting with themselves every day, every week, every hour, talking nonsense. They lied about the special legal order. Do you remember when your group leader here told me that the kingdom was being built to protect against the epidemic? [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Isn't that so?]] Ridiculous! [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Do you remember that? [[Interview from Jobbik: We remember a little bit more!]] Here you said, Congressman, in your speech, you are testing too much. One speech first said that too little was being tested. [[There's a rumble and a blur in Jobbik's ranks. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] They said a week or two ago that it should be opened, and now they're saying it should be closed. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] Before that, they said it should be closed, and then they said it should be opened. They're attacking medical personnel, their group leader here the other day attacked Officer Muller Cecília. What's the point? And anti-vaccination. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] I'm sorry, you're launching petitions, and you're inciting me with the safe vaccinations that have been placed on the market. Your faction leader said it was a human experiment. They talk people out of getting vaccinated, that's why people die. Do you understand the responsibility? So I think the political barbecue should be put in the background here. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Hungary is fighting the virus, and it is sad that, in the meantime, it is also necessary to fight the left-wing opposition instead of taking sides with the defence. Think about your posture. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-20	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, KDNP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: Europe today. What has been achieved from the plans of the founding fathers? It's an address. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2021-04-12-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, On 18 April 1951, 70 years ago, the Treaty on the Establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community, Montanunio, was signed in Paris, which was one of the first steps in the process of creating the European Union. The founding fathers, Konrad Adenauer, Alcide De Gasperi and Robert Schuman, believed that the reconstruction of Europe could only rest on an acceptable basis for everyone. For them, this common moral basis was clearly Christian ethics. They believed that the idea of ancient Greek democracy could only be completed in a modern Christian democracy based on equality before God, gender, race, class, personal participation and responsibility of members of society. Looking back today, we need to ask how Europe has managed its Greek, Roman and Christian heritage in recent decades. Over the 70 years, European democracies have become increasingly well-informed in the institutional sense, but unfortunately, this process has also resulted in a distance from the people and a separation, leading to a kind of EU eliteisation. A typical example of this is the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, where the Brussels elite has completely ignored not only the decision of citizens but also the decision of the European Parliament. This type of procedure undermines not only faith in democracy, but also one of the worst inheritances of antique Rome, imperial thinking. It is no coincidence that the founding fathers have repeatedly drawn attention to this danger, while at the same time bearing in mind the benefits of the diversity of European nations. [[12.00]] But this advantage, as Robert Schuman stressed, can only be taken advantage of if the principle of equality between democracy and relations between nations is applied through Christian teaching. Unfortunately and unfortunately, the Christian foundations considered most important by the founding fathers today are least valued by the Western European leadership and the closely connected elite. More and more, we can see that Christian values are consciously and systematically being pushed out of their everyday life, while collectiveist multicultural and anti-racist movements are making every effort to eradicate European culture through their violent demonstrations and their efforts to rewrite the past. Ladies and gentlemen, In the West, it is almost impossible to talk about all this without impunity, as is shown by Zsolt Petry, who, in the end, paid for his honest opinion with his job for freedom of expression in so sensitive Germany. Schuman once said that Europe will or will not be a Christian. Today, this issue is more relevant than ever in recent decades, because if we cannot stop the efforts to give up our values, including those aimed at resolving gender identity, national sovereignty and identity, nothing will be able to protect a Europe that is becoming more and more valuable in the grip of migration and epidemic. The personal life path of the founding fathers, their courageous opposition during the then atheistic dictatorships, and the spiritual and economic renewal of their leadership after World War II, the recovery obliges all of us to struggle with our strength to have Europe's Christian past as well as its Christian future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Vice President, When we look at the history of the European continent, we have great achievements: outstanding cultural values, philosophical insights, shockingly good economic performance, prosperous science and continuous political innovation. It is peculiar that these heights from time to time are covered by collapses, historical cataclysms, bloody wars. Perhaps this is a manifestation of the Faustian element with which some people described Western civilization. In our unforgiving efforts, we sometimes lose control, and until then, what was inspiring and provocative is suddenly a nightmare. The creation of the European Union is explained by many circles. Some say it was created because of security policy considerations, others call attention to the benefits of economic cooperation, while others are drawing attention to political reasons and the need to unite the continent. But if we take a step back, we can see that the European Union is an innovative response to historical experiences: it has translated the social values of modern civil democracies into European languages and has established development for the coming decades. Much more happened when the Coal and Steel Community was created. The European Union has also undertaken to shift the incredible forces experienced in the history of the continent into action, so that the spirit, which always tries to do more, has something to cling to if it stumbles. This goal and the performance of the founding fathers of the EU Christian Democrats is a political innovation that rightly takes its place among the continent's previous peak achievements. The commitment was enormous, and a framework for cooperation had to be established, which is not a barrier to further cultural, economic and political innovation, but which also curbs the fall when an unexpected event occurs. It's easy to see that these are not easy, sometimes the goals that kill each other. It was the political system of Christian democracy that was able to achieve these goals. At the same time, it can support individual performance and help the prosperity of natural communities, give space to innovation, but it can distinguish on a value basis between useful and dangerous developments, and interpret the relationship between the individual and the community in harmony. The history of Europe is the XX. In the second half of the 20th century, it proves how viable and viable it is, as a religious, agnostic, or atheistic person has found his place and the way to prosper in Europe, organized according to Christian social teaching. At the same time, we must also say that Brussels is currently losing weight in world policy, its economic performance is declining, its patents have never been so low, empty in its mentality, and its policy is characterised by crisis management and foreign policy fiascoes. It is peculiar that those who wish to draw attention to this permanent crisis are the ones who are the most criticized at this time. Political innovation is perceived as a breach of Community values, crisis management as a breach of duty in Brussels, although a solution to the continent's problems can be expected from the countries of Eastern Central Europe that later joined; our historical experience enables us to signal the danger, to perceive the crisis earlier, and we do not like political space to lack freedom and mutual respect for each other; there is still political innovation; the nations of the region are still able to think outside progressive liberal doctrines. Therefore, we, the nations of the region, have a special task here under the 21st century. At the beginning of the 20th century, we must help Europe to find back the values that have made it successful and to make it critical of the ideas that today threaten freedom. The Government of Hungary is involved in this work, and the House is asking for its help. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-24	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-12-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For more than a year, we've had the crown virus on our life. The third wave of epidemics across Europe is stronger than ever. The British mutant is infected faster and more severely than before. Last year, restrictions were enough to stop the infection, but this situation is different now, with restrictions we can only slow down the spread of the epidemic. If we look around Europe, we see that there is still a problem. Although minor mitigations were decided in several countries, in the southern part of Italy a lockdown had to be imposed again; In France, after one year last week, schools were closed again across the country, there is a night curfew, but it is only ten kilometres away during the day; a few weeks of national lockdown was foreseen by the German Chancellor to reduce the number of infected. At home, based on the latest infection data, we can trust that we have reached the peak of the third wave, but it is still important to comply with the required measures. Dear House, We have said this many times, and I would like to stress that the only way out of this epidemic is by vaccination. The vaccine saves lives, even one vaccine reduces the risk of serious illness. So we're asking anyone who hasn't made their way to register and pick up the vaccine. There is only one thing that affects the Hungarian vaccination programme, and this is the amount of vaccine coming into our country. Hungary is a leader in the EU ranking of graftation because the government took action on time and sought new, safe and effective vaccines for supplies purchased by Brussels, but only slowly and in small quantities. Today, more people are following this path. Brussels has convinced us not to acquire the vaccines on our own, to give this right to the Commission; they have promised that the purchase will go faster and better if we leave it to them. Now everyone can see that they have failed, that the vaccines are coming slowly. Fortunately, the Hungarian government acted independently and did not fully rely on EU procurement. Our efforts are confirmed by the success of the Hungarian vaccination programme, and thanks to the Eastern vaccines acquired in recent weeks, we are second in vaccination in the European Union. We'd be in big trouble if the government hadn't ordered Eastern vaccines. If we look at the latest EU data, we see that, while there are almost 30 percent grafting in Germany, Spain and Italy, half of them are in Portugal with the same size as us, they are only 14.77 percent and Bulgaria is at the bottom of the rankings by 6.59 percent. [[12.10]] There is also a serious difference that while in most parts of Europe people over the age of 80 are being vaccinated, one in four people in Hungary have already gained all immunity and are inoculating active age throughout the country. Hungary is also at the forefront of the fact that the most vaccine has been administered here in one week. Thank you, therefore, for the vaccination, for the organizing participants, and also for our countrymen who took the vaccine. Dear House, It should be pointed out that Hungary has acquired enough Chinese and Russian vaccines to vaccinate three and a half million people. It saves lives, too. The despicable, two-faced campaign that the left is conducting on this issue cannot be ignored. While they were trying to dissuade others, unsure, they got themselves inoculated in a row. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen on the left, that a proposal has recently been submitted to Parliament, which would have banned Chinese and Russian vaccines. That would have cost thousands of lives. Now Bence Tordai is making fun of the Russian vaccine he's been given. Aren't you ashamed? ! What about the people you've talked me out of vaccination? Now, of course, they'd deny their anti-vaccination sentences, but that's not gonna work. They were overdoing it, they attacked the vaccines with petitions, they blocked the defense with chamomuvides, they threatened the lives of Hungarians. They're doing the same thing they've done since the outbreak started, attacking wherever they can. They don't even spare health professionals. Ferenc Gyurcsány and his attachments were still accusing me of chaos and collapse, and then, see, wonder, they were on the list, and what did they say? Let's not beat around the bush. It's going like a hoop. He wrote it out on his social media site, where he was soulful of preparation and politeness. According to the DK Kálmán Olga, everything was also fleeting, organized, professional. Price-lick the picture that you were campaigning against the vaccine even the day you received the vaccine. Neither did Peter James, Timea Szabó, László Varju and Gergely Christmas find any errors in the vaccination process, even though we can be sure that they were looking for it with a magnifying glass. Ladies and gentlemen, The left didn't ask questions. They attacked, obstructed defense. I would like to call on the left to stop the pathetic wind-cocking, trouble-making and misdirection of the people. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We need to speak with restraint about ourselves's performance, I think, in the middle of wartime, because we are living in times of war or similar, when, in times of war, Hungarian people have many aspects of their daily lives, and indeed, losses, including the personal losses of all of us, are quoting times of war. In such cases, it is more appropriate, elegant, and merciful to withdraw the balance, defense, and the success of the fight. However, after the lack of the left-wing sense of grace, such as respect, and the most elementary requirements of human dignity, we must now fight these battles during the battle and prove that the defense shows superhuman achievement in Hungary; primarily thanks to the thousands and tens of thousands of people who stand in hospitals in hell conditions, stand by the sick, the dying, holding hands of those who are carried away by this epidemic; they cannot be thanked enough for what they offer for all of us in these times. In the second place, it should be mentioned that if there is not a ten-year construction of the relations that we started to take seriously in 2010, which we said that this country must not only stand on one western leg, but also open up the channels that lead to the powers of the East, and that they can bring the capital of knowledge gathered there to Europe and Hungary, if none of this is done, there is no Eastern vaccine, and if there is no Eastern vaccine, then there may indeed be one or more death in all our families than we have suffered so far. With regard to the left, it would be possible to quote for a long time the statements that have been made in recent weeks and months on how bad health is. By doing so, the left is not declaring the government, but the heroes who, under these circumstances, are doing a sacrifice for all of us, for the whole nation. It is either possible to give a long description of the statements that have taken place in recent years in Hungary's Eastern opening policy, or a long list of statements that question the reliability of the Eastern vaccines available today, thanks to the Eastern opening. The left, like so many times in history, is attacking the nation at the most critical moment in the middle of the most difficult battle. Dear Left! This war, which you are fighting, is not going against us, it is a campaign against the nation, because at this moment, when all of us should fight together to defend against an external enemy, you are not looking for where they can help, but where they can shake people's faith in protection, and so indirectly tragedy comes from this irresponsible policy. You always come with the number of dead. If you look at the number of dead people, I would like to ask you whether the neighboring country that was reported this morning has run out of them in its capital, so they have run out! intensive beds, while there are still thousands of beds available in Hungary, and otherwise official epidemiological statistics show about half as much death as we do, what is the situation here, what is behind this phenomenon. I believe that the transparency with which the Hungarian official authority handles the number of dead people of the epidemic should be praised, not questioned, and that we should look around at the methodology and transparency that others may provide similar data. You can be sure that this is what Mr Lajos Oláh referred to as the fact that the real number of dead is far less favourable in many places than in Hungary. The Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully agree that every effort must be made to continue the vaccination, to register, to register, to register and to register. It will be a vaccine, and in the next few days and weeks, vaccines will arrive in the millions from both the East and the West. And we will continue to do everything we can to protect as many people as possible, and we will be able to restart the country over the next few weeks. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-28	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-04-12-29	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; László Várpát, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; Lajos Korós, MSZP; Anett Bősz, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; János Bencsik, independent; János Stummer, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-04-12-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:18 p.m., we're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2021-04-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Orbán government will reopen schools from 19 April; unfortunately, primary schools are definitely open. Minister Gergely Gulyás does not see a serious risk of this, as he believes that the first dose of vaccine will provide adequate protection. I do not want to initiate a virological debate because I do not know about it, just as Minister Gulyás did not study in this way, and I suppose neither do you, and it is enough for me to know exactly how the stakeholders responded to this announcement. The re-opening of schools is not a good idea, Mr. State Secretary, the Hungarian Medical Association, the Teachers' Union, the Democratic Union of Teachers, the ADOM Student Movement and the vast majority of teachers. In fact, they had the idea of refusing to work in attendance, as the Code of Work gives them the opportunity to do so. [[12.20]] In Viktor Orbán's decision, he insisted on the two and a half million magic number for the people who were vaccinated, but the origin of this number is highly questionable. Experts and not politicians! They've said numbers before, but they're all much higher than that. For example, your boss, Minister Kásler, said that after the grafting of at least 4 million people, at the end of May at the beginning of June, the restrictions could be eased. If that is the case, then why do they force this time that seems premature in every way? Does the Prime Minister ignore your boss' expertise? It wouldn't be the first time. It is important to point out that teachers intend to continue their work within the framework of digital education, which, although bumpy, is still taking place today. Maintaining health, minimizing the chance of infection, should be the most important at this stage of the pandemic. Re-opening the institutions is therefore highly irresponsible, and indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it is a sin. My question is therefore clear: do you consider the opening of the school on 19 April to be premature, and do you or your boss take personal responsibility for the diseases arising from the re-opening of schools? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said it wasn't obvious to you why the government tied the first step of the reboot to the two-and-a-half million vaccine numbers; because here in the national consultation it turned out that people wanted a gradual reboot, so we can only talk about a first step. However, we have said many times, honourable Member, that the most important thing for us was that the most exposed to the coronal virus, the elderly, should be vaccinated. About a million and a half old people registered, so when we reach the figure of two and a half million, the elderly at the highest risk are already vaccinated. So we tied it to this number, because the most dangerous ones are already vaccinated, who are registered; obviously, the overwhelming majority of them, well above 90 percent. That's why this number. The other: you referred to two organizations. Let me quote the announcements of these organisations, which you have referred to:. If the government lets the children back, the students at the end of March, at the beginning of April, it is essential to immediately vaccinate those working in public education and vocational training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you asked for an emergency vaccination at the Teachers' Union. I quote the other organization, the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers:. The Congress confirmed the demand of the PDSZ that all workers who are involved in the care, training and education of children and pupils who are applying for vaccination should not be vaccinated with vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the trade unions' demand, honourable Member, was that, several weeks ago, when education and school restarts, teachers should be inoculated. What's been going on in the past two weeks is an emergency vaccination for teachers. What the teachers' unions have asked for has been stated in previous decisions, the government will do, and not only the Teachers' Union has asked for it, but the National Teachers' Faculty and many other organizations have asked for it. We are therefore in line with this; it is precisely so that we can ensure that teachers are protected. We have had previous experience: social homes. There we saw in a closed community where the virus can spread even more strongly, because the caregivers there struggled with many diseases, that the first vaccine was able to provide a high degree of protection. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and stopped the virus from spreading. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-34	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will bureaucratic rules on people with disabilities be simplified? How many affected people have been caught up in the public administration because of the outbreak? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-12-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. There was also a press report on the Calvary for children with multiple disabilities who had become adults during the epidemic, who had a lot of problems in the administration. Over the last decade, we have heard many times about how you simplify administrative administration, but it seems that there is still plenty to do if in 2021 a man with multiple disabilities has to re-prove that he is still having multiple disabilities because he is 18 years of age. Don't you, as Secretary of State for Human Resources, find this inhumane? The current unblessed situation does not only highlight the shortcomings in administrative procedures and in the care of people with disabilities. We also need to see that the government has created conditions that threaten legal certainty that threaten the conduct of the janitorial procedure, the livelihood and security of those affected. For this reason, I respectfully ask why families with children with disabilities are not informed of what the child's adult life involves. Why doesn't the state provide special procedures, transitional arrangements for the administration of our fellow countrymen who know they need help? What legislative simplifications does the government plan to resolve this situation? How many of your cases are hanging in the air because of the epidemic? And last but not least, I ask you again, as Secretary of State for Human Resources, that you do not consider the current situation inhumane. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-36	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps it would have been important that this capacity of feeling does not fail you, honourable Member, when we have voted here in Parliament several times that we have extended the various child protection subsidies during the epidemic, that we have given relief from the purchase of various certificates to families who are raising their children under difficult circumstances, precisely so that these families are not put at a disadvantage during the epidemic. At the time when we voted on this so that we wouldn't have to run for certificates, we wouldn't lose benefits, why didn't you and all your left-wing fellow Members vote for this in Parliament? He said that dictatorship, dictatorship, dictatorship, that the entire full power will be built here in Hungary, but that was not the case, but that, for example, family support could be passed on. As regards the other half of your question: at the information and coordination points set up in individual family and child welfare centres, there are now 22 settlements in which special information, knowledge and knowledge are available in one place in the framework of these working disability advisory activities, which you consider important in these living situations for these families. The Disability Advisor assists in the use of various services and also assists in the administration, as you have said, that for many people this seems really difficult at first. At the same time, they can rely on the special expertise of the disability advisor, the professionals of all family and child welfare services, as well as family and child welfare centres. When we talk about information that is more difficult to access during the epidemic, it is important that in previous years the Single Disability Information Portal, the EFI portal, has been updated with up-to-date information. This will provide information on available services, information and coordination points, disability consultants, who are also available in person, telephone and e-mail. I would also like to inform you that the National Association of Social Organisations and Foundations serving Intellectual Damages and the EMMI have also helped professionals working in guardianship management and child protection specialist care institutions since 2018. The training series was attended 20 times by 500 officials at 11 locations and 217 more the following year, so we helped hundreds of people. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so that they can help those who come to them more easily. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-38	Thank you very much for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Open society doesn't have to, communist popular democracy does? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2021-04-12-39	Dear House, There has already been talk in Parliament about the coming of the Chinese University of Fudan to Hungary, about the fact that the government is offering the Chinese a valuable plot, a significant amount of public money, if they can believe in the leaked government promotion, legal guarantees and an extremely high amount of loan that goes far beyond the state support of Hungarian higher education, if they bring this university to Hungary. We have also talked about the fact that this also involves taking the place away from the student city, the solution created by the agreement between the capital and the government, where Hungarian students could have created a dormitory place, a kind of student city [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you build it? You've had eight years to build it!]] , which would also significantly increase the domestic and international competitiveness of higher education in Budapest. [[12.30]] So what happens instead? You didn't need CEU. I've been lectured here in Parliament all sorts of things. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's around the corner!]] Complicated text about [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You'll find it two blocks away!]] Why not, but the Prime Minister said why: because the idea of open society cannot be accepted. And what is this idea that you can accept? This is revealed by the founding document of Fudan University, which was changed in 2019: support for the Chinese Communist Party's views and Marxism-Leninism. You need an elite that is taught Marxism-Leninism in the spirit of the Chinese Communist Party's teachings. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you believe that? Dr. Bence Rétvári: You laugh at yourself too!]] Mr Secretary, my question is: was a university driven away by someone with his own money, along with students and Hungarian teachers, to make room for Chinese friends, Marxism-Leninism and the ideas of the Chinese Communist Party?
u2021-04-12-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Are you a communist in the Hungarian Parliament? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You, the successor party? From the Democratic Coalition, from the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, do you Communist? Let's not mess with each other. Honourable Congressman, You know that, because you have a personal responsibility in destroying Hungarian higher education, harming it wherever you can. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] You wanted to introduce tuition fees, you have put the Hungarian higher education institutions into debt, you have personally worked to destroy Hungarian higher education, honourable Member. Then you stand up here in the Parliament and you want us to be accountable, honourable Member, because the 34th best higher education institution in the world wants to open campus in Hungary? Honourable Congressman, We welcome all higher education institutions from anywhere in the world that take the lead in international rankings, just want to come to Hungary and improve the quality of Hungarian higher education. You want to come here and you want to follow the law. Honourable Member, the Soros University is subject to the same laws as any other higher education institution, but should be respected. Honourable Congressman, You know perfectly well that the future of universities is the future of Hungary, which is why Hungary's most important nation-building programme is the renewal of our universities and the development of higher education. Honourable Member, the establishment of Fudan University in Hungary contributes to strengthening Hungarian higher education, becoming more competitive, bringing many foreign investors, corporate research and development to Hungary, and generating significant investment, but the most important thing is that Hungarian young people can learn in an internationally renowned institution with significant positions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question:, How do you try to help those who do not dare, can not ask for help? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-12-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, On the Internet, social media is constantly showing up a video in which abusers, young people, elderly people, with one hand sign, without words, are able to let the other know that they are in trouble. There has been a significant increase in domestic violence, mainly against women and children, due to the coronal virus epidemic. Being locked up makes it a lot harder for the abused to ask for help. For some, being at home could be more dangerous than a coroner's virus. The epidemic is a major challenge for all of us, and domestic quarantine is even more of a problem for those who suffer domestic violence. Unfortunately, at every point of the system, there can be a person, a case where there is no successful request for help, and alternative solutions must be used. For children, but also adults, there are situations in which the required assistance routes do not work. Adults or relatives who are aware of their abuse cannot or may not be able to signal. There may be comfort or uncertainty, or even fear. In such cases, abusers are left to themselves, to ask for help, or to find someone who can give advice. I ask how they try to help those who are afraid or unable to ask for help; how it is possible not to stay on their own to get out of the abuse; vane or he will have some generally accepted, known signal; how to attach it to the defense system. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, for a meaningful answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that from 1 January 2021, you will not only be able to get help from the victim if you visit the victim support centers and services. Based on information received by the general investigating authority, police, the victim's consent, the victim's support service itself contacts the victim and informs him of all forms of assistance available and available, thus reaching more and more victims with personalized support and assistance tailored to the victim's needs. Information on various services and assistance options is also possible anonymously on the free-of-charge victim support line, which is available 24/7, thus helping to reach victims who cannot or dare not seek direct assistance. Communication is continuous, in which we draw citizens' attention to the fact that if they become victims, they are not alone, there is help. Vansegitseg.hu website has been created, which is constantly updated, and the video-podcast series entitled "Stories of Weekly Life" has been launched with the involvement of well-known actors, providing both preventive and informative content for all citizens and all victims. In doing so, we place particular emphasis on identifying victims' role as victims and informing them of their opportunities. I would like to point out that contacts and training are ongoing with professionals in basic and specialised child protection services, law enforcement, judicial services, public education, given that in many cases they are the first to meet the victim. We are constantly working on the development of the system of victim support, including through practical experience; our goal is to enable those in need of help to receive the right help in due time. Thank you for your attention. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-12-46	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When does the government finally assume responsibility? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the world's largest outbreak of corona virus is rampant, and in terms of the number of serious diseases and deaths, the country has been the world's leading in recent weeks. This means that there is no other government in the world who has done so badly to protect against the epidemic. This is clearly your responsibility. If we're thinking about how to put one more shovel on this, further increasing the horrors and horrors that have already been caused, then here we are: opening schools. So, while all experts recommend tightening up or at least maintaining strict measures so far, they themselves start relaxing in a country where the number of deaths per million per day is the world's leading. 25 out of every million people die every day. The fact that some teachers have been inoculated in the last week or two... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: All of them!]] Not all of them, not all of them. That doesn't mean they've got immunity by now. In fact, today's news is that, even this week, preschool and school workers are being vaccinated, until Sunday, public education workers are being vaccinated. I ask you, if you get your first shot on Sunday, by Monday, how will you be protected? I heard your previous pathetic explanation in your reply that you did what the teachers' unions asked you to do to get the teachers vaccinated. Obviously, they didn't write down how teachers would be protected from vaccination, they didn't write down the technical, medical details, but I beg you, don't hide behind such pathetic excuses. Take responsibility. The teachers are not protected, the students are not protected and the parents of the students are not protected. Schools become focal points, 25-49-year-olds are only inoculated around 15 percent, which will not protect parents accordingly from getting sick. Take responsibility and withdraw from this decision. [[12.40]]
u2021-04-12-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The vaccine saves lives. Vaccination is the epidemiology step that we can really overcome the epidemic, which, if each person's personal exposure or health or life is at risk, can be avoided. Therefore, the most important thing is the vaccination, as quickly as possible, the number of vaccinations during the epidemic. How did you, honourable Member, talk about this at the beginning of the year, a few weeks or two ago, or how did you write about it on your own side? At the end of the year, Péter Szijjártó spent most of his time feeding the Hungarians propaganda about the Russian vaccine at Putin's order, with which only one thing he achieved: suspicion against the vaccine ran to amazing heights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Bence of Turdai: That's right!]] You attacked him. [[Bence of Turdai: Propaganda!]] And you still agree with him in a weird way. You attacked the Russian vaccine. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in front of the entire Hungarian public, and not only you, but all your fellow politicians. Everybody [[Bence of Turdai: Propaganda! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Everyone kept attacking him; then it was only a few weeks or a few months, and you had already stated that I had received the vaccine, Sputnik, that everything was going well. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] On the one hand, he's talking about vaccination chaos while he's saying everything went well. But your more serious responsibility, your most serious moral responsibility, Congressman, is that you have to take responsibility for giving yourself the Sputnik vaccine, because you know that you, your health, are protecting your life against the Crown Virus, but on your own Facebook page, in your own statements, in your own Parliament speeches, you have convinced people not to submit to you. [[Bence of Turdai: He's lying!]] [[Bence of Turdai: He's lying!]] [[Bence of Turdai: He's lying!]] He wrote that suspicion of vaccines was growing because you tried to talk people out of the Russian vaccine so hard that you injected yourself because you knew it would protect your health. This is the most irresponsible thing you could have done as a politician, honourable Member, that, although you knew that the Russian vaccine was saving your life, you campaigned not to be handed in by the people. (Bence of Turda: He's lying! He knew what it was for, he knew it was important, but he tried to talk people out of it (Bence of Torda: He's lying!) 'Cause you're playing to get as few people as you can get the vaccine, the longer the plague lasts, the more victims you'll have, because you think that in 2022, which you're aiming for right now, it'll be easier for you to seize power. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-50	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I would like to inform Mr Bence Tordai that he will be given the opportunity to speak at the end of the item on the agenda, and I would also like to inform him that Mr Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister, I do not remember when he would have yelled at you during your speech. [[Bence of Turdai: When I would have lied, but I don't! Demercation from opposition parties.]] Thank you. I'm done, I'm done, and we'll continue when you have the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2021-04-12-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As a Budapester, I am particularly proud that, after 2010, a strong development of Budapest was launched under the Fidesz government, especially with regard to traffic in the capital, including public transport. We, Budapesters, experience this every day, think about the completion of subway four, the renovation of the two or the provision of the triple renovation costs. Suburbans, XVI. For district and Zuglós, one of the most important aspects of such transport development is the connection between the HÉV and the subway, which would resolve and radically increase the capacity of public transport, more than 300 thousand people are affected by this development. Unfortunately, the current left-wing Budapest leadership did not continue to prepare for the previous capital headed by Tarlós. The previous metropolitan leadership provided HUF 5 billion to launch the project's plans. It was a year ago after the fall of 2019, and the current metropolitan leadership sunk it into the drawer. Several years of work would have been lost if some of us, district patriots, did not make any move to develop the district. May I thank Mayor Péter Kovács for, among other things, the work he has done to get back on the agenda, the government has provided a source for the link between the HÉV and the Metro, with which we have hope that the investment will take place in the development cycle until 2027. I ask Mr Secretary of State that we suburbans and Zuglós can continue to count on the government's support in connection with metro line two and HÉV in Gödöllő. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-52	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in recent years and the next decade, the government is planning to launch a great many improvements in the modernisation of public transport in Budapest. The two lines of the metro line you mentioned and the linking of the HÉV in Gödöllő and the development of the cancer wing line have already been provided by the government. This includes the renovation of stations, the acquisition of new vehicles capable of being operated by suburban and suburban railways, along with the development of a wing line. Already in 2018, the government decided on the development of a single HÉV and its support for this project. In recent years, unfortunately, the BFK had to work on project take-over from the Municipality of Budapest, as the new capital with left-wing composition did not support and stopped the preparation of this project. Fortunately, agreement was reached on 15 October 2020 and from then on the preparation of the project will be carried out by the government BFK in cooperation with BKV and BKK. A new government decision was then taken on 23 March, which recorded the takeover and included the project you mentioned in its entirety. The government also provides HUF 4.6 billion to prepare the investment, so there is a chance that this project will be successfully completed in the next EU cycle. The plans will be completed by the end of the 23rd year according to the current schedule, but there is hope that by the second half of the first phase to Cinkota, we will have them. If the project ends, you can reach Deák tér in 25 minutes from Gödöllő. It also includes the project of the XVI. In certain sections of the district, also progress through the tunnel. Overall, it helps hundreds of thousands of people who use this line every day, significantly more modern, faster, greener, and it is in the interest of all the investments in Budapest and the agglomeration. Thank you very much for your support. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-54	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why is the drug problem not so important to the government that it can prepare an anti-drug strategy in time? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2021-04-12-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2013 the National Assembly adopted a national anti-drug strategy for the control of domestic drug use and distribution, which expired at the end of 2020 and has not been heard since then about the development of a new strategy. It is a regrettable fact that Hungary was not drug-free by 2020, as the strategy set out, but, for example, the number of school preventions has decreased, and despite fast-track regulations, dubious design drugs are being struck. It should also be seen that, in the context of anti-drug police action, there is a greater proportion of action against consumers, even though, in my own and professional opinion, distributors should be punished in the first place. In addition, in recent years, the money spent to tackle the problem has not been properly allocated. So there are many problems in the area. However, in this question, I do not want to discuss the problems more deeply or to open up a debate on the results or failures of the national drug strategy, as this genre of opposition is inadequate. My question is more about why there is no new strategy. The undisputed fact is that solving the drug problem is a long-term process for which a drug strategy was and will be needed in the future, and continuity must be maintained by the government with the formulation of new goals, because without a strategy, government management is like trying to build without a blueprint, workers do not talk to each other, nor do they know what can be done, because it is not, so it is a big mess. Unfortunately, this is also the case in the area of the drug problem. [[12.50]] The point is, therefore, that without the strategy, it is not possible to work in this area thoroughly, seriously. In itself, it makes me wonder why this area is not so important to the government as to create a strategy in time. So I ask why, after the national anti-drug strategy that expired in 2020, the new anti-drug strategy has not been completed in time and when this is expected. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is indeed very important to take action against drugs because, on the one hand, it can ruin the whole life of young people and, on the other hand, because the left is constantly talking about drug liberalisation when he talks about his own government plans. This is how he speaks, let us say, the youth organisation of the Momentum, the president of which urged the decriminalisation of cannabis consumption, so that this can be done freely, there should not be a criminal consequence. Gábor Vágó from LMP also recommended drug liberalisation for Hungary following a foreign example. But there are liberals who are now most in line at DK, here they are in their ranks, who expected Gergely Christmas to open up the possibility of drug trafficking from Budapest if elected mayor. So the left is constantly trying to free the way of drugs here. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] verbally and in action, it is therefore important to act. I would like to inform you that the government accepted it in 2018 at the end of 2018 [[Intercoms from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] the Government Decision 1722/2018, the national health programme from 2019 to 2030, and one of its parts, one of the five major programmes, is the national mental health programme. Well, the individual thesis of this mental health program, which you said, is the blueprint, this floor plan, based on which action against drugs can be planned, how to help people's mental state along with broad government support, professional, church and civil society organisations. Here children, young people are a priority target group, there are even more intensive tasks. In addition, resources are allocated, since the government has spent 6 billion forints on infrastructure development of child and youth psychiatric, addictology, mental health and care systems, 3 billion for drug-related programmes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 2.5 billion for anti-drug programs in child services. Therefore, both the programme and its funding are available in the budget and in the tenders. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-04-12-58	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: å The M100 is necessary, but what about the M10? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Not so long ago, the government announced the construction of the M100 road, which I also support, and I acknowledge that this road... if nothing else, really because of industrial traffic, in order to connect Esztergom, the Esztergom industrial park and the Suzuki plant, the other industrial facilities belonging to it, to the motorway. As I understand it, this is a rather old promise from the government, which may seem to be coming true now. By the beginning of next year, they're planning the first slash on this. Obviously, I do not agree with the way they tried to sell it to the public. My colleague Völner is also here, who said at a residential forum that it would be easier for the locals to get to Budapest. That leaves a little bit of a fuss. If you're familiar with road 10, I don't think you're gonna want to sit in traffic on the M1 on the M1-M7 intro. About. You'd sense the same thing as Highway 10. So, in addition to the fact that it concerns my constituency, and there really are settlements there, especially in the eastern part of the constituency, which this road can have a positive impact on, not to mention the fact that the main road number 102 will most likely relieve the burden, but we will not talk about a very important thing if those arriving from the M0 will not go around Budapest, but will want to travel only 30 kilometers to this expressway, and will therefore travel to Piliscsaba on Szentendre road, road 11, and then on the Vienna road. So what will happen to the section here in Budapest-Piliscsaba, where freight traffic can grow very seriously? That is why I have been saying for a long time that the M10 would also need a great deal of this region in order to really unload the road 10. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And one more quick question: are you planning a roundabout for the 117 and 1117 routes? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Quick question about the expressway.]]
u2021-04-12-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you said, Pál Völner, a representative of the region, proposed and continued work to build the motorway M100, and thus the long-standing demand of the people of Esztergom and the region will be fulfilled. We are also congratulating the Member. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] The M100 already has final authorisation plans and construction plans, which include the final technical parameters of the road to be built. The source is available for planning and land grabbing. After the preparations, construction works can also start at the beginning of next year. This opens up important opportunities for businesses in settlements to further strengthen the region's economy and tourism. It is also important for the people who live there, because, unlike what you said, they can really get to the capital and to other regions of the country faster and safer. But our goal is also for families to find their livelihood locally, for industry to work, and for jobs to be created. It is also important to build the right road network. Therefore, my request is not to cause panic about a clearly useful investment; with the planned development, all the settlements in the area will benefit. And the node of roads 117, 1117 is an area where there was a real need for improvement. On the proposal of Mr Pál Völner, it is precisely during today that the construction of traffic control in the node with signalling lamps begins, thus preventing further accidents. I therefore urge the Member to thank Mr Völner for these improvements today. [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Oh, my God!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-12-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The coronal virus epidemic is a huge strain on health care workers. At present, Hungarian healthcare only works because the superhuman performance of those working there is still on the surface. Thank you for your work. Healthcare professionals are sacrificing their spare time and rest periods to provide proper care for our fellow countrymen. This sacrifice must be rewarded, rewarded with leisure and recreational opportunities. With the end of the epidemic, burdened health workers will deserve to have their rest periods sacrificed during the epidemic. There are also examples of this: in the United States, free admissions to various sporting events and events were given to vaccinated health workers to relax. This has helped not only health workers but also sectors whose income has been drastically reduced as a result of the epidemic. Sacrifice of rest periods for health workers must therefore be rewarded by the state. At the same time, Mr State Secretary, you should also know that many health workers have not even received remuneration for overwork. What's the reason? Many also went to work sick because they were afraid of 60 percent of the sick. MSZP recommended a 100 percent pension. When are you going to introduce this? In view of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how they intend to compensate health and health workers for their sacrifices and how they intend to ensure that they can rest after the coronal virus epidemic has been completed. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Before I give the floor to Mr János Latorcai, I will give the chair. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.00]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-12-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, with my hat off to those medical workers who are there, intensively, in infectious care and persist, helping patients with coronal viruses, tending them for a year now, and even when the British mutant, which is much more aggressive, spreads much faster, has far more serious consequences, which can be seen from all the data, and continues to help those who need to be cured in hospitals. I'll take my hat off. We can see it in other countries, in countries richer than us, leaving older people to themselves in the social institution, so they died in bulk. Or in other countries, they really cannot care for patients in hospitals, but Hungarian doctors and nurses in Hungarian hospitals can provide for patients who are brought in there, even when, as I said, because of the British viral mutant, all the numbers we see in the statistics are so high. What is most important in addition to moral recognition is material recognition, honourable Member, I think you agree with that. Therefore, it is important to increase the wages of nurses by 72 percent between 2019 and 2022. Therefore, it is important that we have radically increased the wages of doctors from 1 January this year. It will continue next year and after the next year, we will double the pay of doctors, and there will be people who will pay much higher than double the salary. This is also a very important part of the recognition. I don't know much about a country, but tell me if you know anyone who's doubled the doctors' pay during the coronal virus epidemic. We have done exactly that to recognise their work, honourable Member. When you were on the government, you didn't increase doctors' salaries, you reduced them, you took a month's wages from them, you took a month's wages from nurses. Visit fees were introduced, hospital daily allowances were introduced, several hospitals were closed, hospital beds were demolished in the order of tens of thousands, and hospital workers were dismissed in the order of thousands. Perhaps the work of health care workers should have been better recognised, with greater respect, with higher salaries, not by sending them on the street. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue our work. MEPs László Hajdu and László Varju, representatives of DK, wish to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets:.. How many more people have to die on the tracks to restore the Istvánk overpass? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office of Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Balázs Orbán, Minister of State will give the answer, and Congressman Varju will ask the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-67	Thank you very much for this opportunity, and we are putting it together with my fellow Member, László Hajdu. Dear Deputy Minister, The Istvántelk overpass was built on the border between Újpest and Rákospalota. The railway crossing at the intersection of Dugonics Street and Pázmány Péter Street is MÁV Zrt. has been informed that it is life-threatening and that it has been sealed and the stairs have been removed in order not to be approached. MÁV Zrt. He said that the population is not really affected by the problem, since they are using another passageway, but we add that these passageways, however, force pedestrians to a very significant and pointless detour. The closed overpass was used by Rákospalota and the residents of Újpest for decades, but now under the overpass they are tripping between railway tracks, which has been a particularly dangerous and deadly accident on several tracks of the high traffic international line. They're not planning to renovate the overpass, they're planning to tear it down, and they're not going to have a new overpass. MÁV Zrt. The people don't accept his plan, and we protest. Instead of breaking the overpass, it needs to be renovated, especially now that the subway is only promised, but the railway is the way into the city. A local-initiative petition has already been launched, but for now, you will remain silent. Let us therefore ask the Minister, together, and through you, the Minister, in accordance with Rule XV. on behalf of opposition candidates starting in the district and, for example, on behalf of Mr Barkóczi Balázs DK spokesperson: why not renew the railway overpass that facilitates the lives of the Újpest people and the cancer palaces? How many people have to die between the tracks so you can do something? We can't imagine that while there are hundreds of billions for stadiums, World Hunting Exhibitions, buddies, while the Újpest and XV. They don't have money to help people in the district. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-04-12-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer is given by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, My colleagues are monitoring your political actions in this area, and you have also held a press conference in which you have been walking across tracks and tracks. I would like to point out that this is strictly forbidden and life-threatening, whatever noble cause you support, do not do so for political performance next time. Regarding the location in question, two pedestrian crossings led to the station Istvántelek. In Dugonics Street, the overpass was damaged by steel structure corrosion, so the MÁV ordered an out-of-line investigation, immediately closed the overpass and out-of-use. At the moment steps are missing, waiting for resolution, as the structure is in no use, cannot be renovated. From here, 250 metres from Wysocki Street, the platform remains safely accessible. Another safe alternative is the Szerencs Street level passage, also a few hundred metres away. The stop can also be reached from the Tavasz street pedestrian overpass and from the Árpád road overpass. It is expected that it will be renewed in May 2021. So the whole situation is that in the affected area, in addition to the sealed and life-threatening overpass to be dismantled, there are four built passageways to facilitate safe passage. The government supported and adopted the Budapest agglomeration railway strategy, which sets out the overall long-term goals and the necessary improvements to achieve them, and in the years ahead we will spend more than a thousand billion forints to develop suburban railways and HÉVs. In this context, many of these and similar points will be dealt with in a reassuring manner. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources what kind of mental support do nurses receive? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The impact and follow-up of the corona virus can have serious consequences both in the short and long term on the mental and physical condition and resilience of healthcare workers, but it can also make it impossible for the safety of the profession and the supply of human resources in the future. During the pandemic, beyond the increased mortality of health workers, they face growing psychological problems, increased stressful situations, facing the death of patients, replacing those who cannot be with loved ones, even if they are dying, they also have to report the bad news to family members. They are concerned about the shortcomings of personal protective equipment, they are also abused by disease densities, and daily fear of giving the virus to their loved ones at home is hard on them, and above all, they are pushing the limits of their physical stress. There is already a huge shortage of health professionals, and the epidemic is likely to cause even more people to leave this area. Surveys have been carried out on the extent to which post-traumatic stress syndrome should be dealt with by nurses, and how can they be helped in processing? What mental support can be given to bear the increased burden and to address it? What steps is the government planning to take to keep them on track in the future, despite the great pressure? I look forward to your meaningful reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári answers the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, in a completely new situation, Hungarian hospitals are under enormous pressure, and our health workers stand up. As we have already said today, in many other countries, the health system does not hold the coronal virus epidemic so well, especially at the time of the British mutant, but in front of Hungarian health workers the hat is off for doing this! [[13.10]] Indeed, because of the novelty of the disease, because of the special situation of the epidemic, this imposes a significant physical and psychological burden on all medical workers working in Hungarian hospitals who deal with patients with coronal viruses. Obviously, financial recognition is also important, and this is what we talked about: the one-off HUF 500,000 allowance that all health workers received, the wage increase that represents a 72 percent increase for nurses between 2019 and 22, the wage doubling that is taking place in these years with doctors. This is all important recognition, but it is also important for them to be helped to maintain their own spiritual balance. On the one hand, psychiatrists and mental health professionals working in hospitals may be able to do this, but in addition, the Semmelweis University Psychiatric and Psychotherapy Clinic has launched a psychic support service, precisely to help frontline professionals by telephone and online, the Department of Clinical Psychology has developed a free-of-charge crisis line 24 hours a day. In addition, several health institutions are constantly preparing professional advice and suggestions for other institutions. A post-Covid psychiatric and psychotherapy clinic was opened at the National Psychiatric and Addictological Institute of Nyírő Gyula Hospital, which also provides assistance. There are first aid telephone lines that help not only health workers but everyone else. In the same way, the mental health centers in 87 health development offices, which are also often connected to hospitals, are also in-house, all of which help. But it is also our job to help them, to support them, not to spread false news about them, so that they may struggle with it, but to acknowledge and appreciate the work they do for us, so that they do not have many infected and many victims of the coronal virus. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: with loyalty to the promotion of the Prime Minister's Office or what Do you need a state top position? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer you. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is not the first time last week that we have witnessed a state's peak position being assigned to a person who is a reliable comrade and that is why they are changing the job description of the state's position. We have seen this before, there was an assistant secretary of state who could fill this position without a higher education degree, but with a past of fidelitas, or an amendment of the law allowed a constitutional judge to become President of the Curia without having any case law. So far, it has been expected for the President of the Hungarian Treasury to be a person with administrative experience, now it has been tricked by a government decree. However, there is probably a reason why we need administrative experience in managing the Treasury. The Treasury handles taxpayers' money. It seems more important for you to give a trusted comrade a position than people's money. Plus, it's not in line with the government's intentions. In 2017, you also put the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development under the Treasury, and there are county directorates under the Treasury. Obviously, this is not enough financial experience to run the Treasury, but it should also be administrative. You, Secretary of State, often do not understand what the rule of law is about, and for you, this is an incomprehensible thing. This is a very good example, Mr. Secretary. The rule of law is not that the job description is that for fidesz friends, fidesz, reliable comrades, we modify the job description, just be him. This is a typical example of what is not the rule of law. Dear Secretary of State, You really didn't find any professionals with administrative experience in this position? Is it that weak in your lineup? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-04-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I didn't want to get into this party-political sword fight, but I have to do it because of your last remark. I'm very happy to argue about what the rule of law is, and I've been teaching college classes about it. One thing is certain, what you think is a rule of law, well, it's not. So when your political allies threaten people who think differently because it is one thing, but it is certainly not a rule of law. And when your other ally is because I'm not talking about Ferenc Gyurcsány, but I'm talking about András Fekete-Győr threatening journalists, that's definitely not part of the rule of law. This is a national minimum in which I think we can agree, and then we can start talking about the nuances you mentioned in the first half of your speech. He brought three characters. I'm sorry. I'd like to go through the three characters. One of your problems is Zsófia Rácz. Your problem, if I translate correctly, is that young people in the Hungarian government are represented by a young person, and that is your problem, who is also responsible for introducing tax exemptions for young people under the age of 25, who, as a result of his work, has extended the KRESZ exam support and the support for language examination. You have a problem, Zs Varga. On the basis of statements contradicting common sense, Andrew, professor of university, that a constitutional judge does not carry out judicial activities. Based on formal logic, your claims cannot be maintained. I suggest Varga Zs. Get to know Professor Andrew's work, and you will know more about the rule of law. The other is the Presidentship of the Treasury. This is a body responsible for cash flow in the implementation of the public budget, so financial experience is key. The future head of the Treasury has a very serious financial experience. I wish on the left there were professionals like you working in government positions and otherwise in constitutional positions like here! Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-12-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Vigh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. By what means does the Government intend to continue developing rural infrastructure? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, will answer you as Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the most important lessons from the pandemic economic crisis is that logistics as an industry is highly appreciated. The government is doing a lot of things to bring as much investment into the country as possible and bring it to Zala County, a smaller country. We are pleased to hear that one of Europe's leading logistics and transport companies, Metrans Zalaegerszeg, is setting up a base. To do so, it will invest some 15.7 billion, with the government supporting it by 3.9 billion. By the way, there have already been several large investments in our city, as there we are building a test track for testing electric and automatic cars, which is already 85 percent ready and we would like to pass it by the end of this year. This test track meets cybernetics, control theory, computer science and artificial intelligence, where these sciences meet in a automotive CDC to build a future transport culture. But we can also boast of connecting Zalaegerszeg to Balatonszentgyörgy with a two-track expressway twice, from the 45-mile section, which will operate as a smart road, and we can also approach the Sárnmellék airport on this road. Then we recently laid the foundation stone for Rheinmetall, a German giant company whose investment has also begun. Zalaegerszeg is very close to the Adriatic, and it is in the Slovenia-Croatia-Austria triangle, so Metrans will create in an excellent place the base that will operate as a large distributor. In view of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the Government intends to support the development of rural cities and rural areas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Robust developments are still taking place and will take place in the coming years, as regards the availability of transport infrastructure in rural Hungarian cities. Let me illustrate this with some specific examples and numbers. For example, if we look at the number of motorways when this government took over the government in 2010, then two motorways have reached the border, since then we have tripled this number, and within a year or two we will be able to reach the point where we will be able to account for one more road or motorway connection. [[13.20]] The motorways are not only a change of dimension in the availability of the border, not only in the availability of larger cities and economic hubs abroad, but also in the availability of the unexplored internal areas of Hungary. I think that's what everyone sees and experiences. Our goal is to achieve the desired status in the coming years so that it can be connected to the motorway network from any point in the country within 30 minutes. We're not bad at this. As far as rail development is concerned, the government spends some HUF 2500 billion on rail development between 18 and 22. The electrified tracks will soon reach nearly 3,300 kilometers. We have other bloody plans, as there is great interest in our plan to connect the big cities of the region with Budapest, and concrete planning works are already underway. We want these to be possible in the next decade as many as possible. There are also plans for Belgrade, the V4 capitals and Romania. To Nyíregyháza, Békéscsaba, Pécs, Zalaegerszeg and Békéscsaba I would add Gyula. These cities are at the heart of our investment promotion policy. We want these cities to catch up and get them to their rightful place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] On the economic map of Hungary. I think Zalaegerszeg is a good example of our success so far, but that's not enough. We will make further efforts. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Why are they assisting in the exploitation of Lake Balaton? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The answer will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi nodds.]] Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It's important not to put any more pressure on the lake. We're gonna have to pull in the handbrake right now. In addition to the fact that I fully agree with this statement, I am not saying this, but the most important professional organization responsible for the ecology of Lake Balaton, the recently appointed head of the Balaton Limnological Institute, Tibor Erős. It is no wonder that Mr. Erős makes such a statement, because in the last decade, investments have been made, not only that they endanger the ecology of Lake Balaton, but they simply want to take Lake Balaton away from the Hungarian families. There's not a day that goes by that we don't hear which of their buddies are filling their pockets right now, and they're giving us billions of public money for luxury hotel investments, port development, and let's not even talk about the fact that the camping sites that used to live better days are now directly on the waterfront. And it is not enough that these billions of public money migrate to the Mészáross and Tiborcsek, we are saying that the whole thing is simply an amazing category of things, that besides public funds, building regulations are being rewritten. Right now, we have the bill that wants to override the waterfront rehabilitation legislation, and you are assisting it by protesting by professional organisations. They don't do anything about the exploitation of Lake Balaton, they even assist it. And if you're not gonna do anything, we're gonna have to do it ourselves. That's why I recently initiated a signature collection for the protection of Lake Balaton. Let's protect Lake Balaton together and do everything we can to prevent the exploitation and expropriation of Lake Balaton: www.egyuttabalatonert.hu; because Balaton belongs to everyone. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Member of the Council ! We heard a fiery-sounding speech, less facts. The government is particularly committed to preserving the natural values of the Lake Balaton coast, protecting its green surfaces and providing natural recreational opportunities related to water. In this spirit, the Law on the spatial planning plans of Hungary and certain priority regions, which included a new spatial planning plan for the Balaton Highest Holiday Region, came into force in 2019. This was preceded by extensive consultation, and according to the law, the most stringent construction standards should apply on the waterfront and in its immediate vicinity; nature conservation and landscape management will be the priority, while the conditions for construction are stricter than national regulations. The legislation strongly protects the use of public land, beaches, green areas and campsites, as well as retains the requirements for the designation of the coastal promenade. It also protects the natural and built values of Lake Balaton with stricter regulations than before. Moreover, this regulation will be further strengthened by the new waterfront plan. You mentioned the question of beaches. The Government of Hungary has set a goal for the renewal of all open water beaches in Hungary by 2030. In the case of Lake Balaton, the number of free beaches is more than 50. The number of settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton is 44; therefore, on average, there is more than one free beach in every settlement, which has also been renewed under the Kisfaludy programme. When we experience the opposite trends, for example, in the case of an investment planned for the interior of Balatonvilágos, the government immediately makes it clear that it does not contribute to the construction of foreign monstrums in the face of municipal image requirements. [[Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] This provision has therefore been repealed and the real estate in question will not be built in that form. It wasn't up to you, it was up to the Government of Hungary. So what I'm asking is, when are you going to stop exploiting the unbridled political exploitation of the people on the shore of Lake Balaton? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I follow you, you must have misplaced your address because of your masculinely harsh speech, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-87	I'm sorry. Did I say Congressman? I'm sorry. My apologies. [[Noise.]]
u2021-04-12-88	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, when a Hungarian died every five minutes in our hospitals, and unfortunately I have to add, this number has not changed since then, your boss has cynically found that Hungarian health care has not been shaken. At the same time, the president of the Hungarian Medical Association said, and I would like to quote this: In some hospitals, people over the age of 65-70 cannot be put on a ventilator because the intensive care unit is full of young people. In addition, if an elderly person and a young person have to give a ventilator bed at the same time, they choose the young because of better chances of survival. And just to prevent it from coming up again with some propaganda, let's be quick to clarify, all due respect to doctors who are constantly saving lives, who have to make such terrible decisions because of you. Do you think that if an elderly person in any Hungarian hospital doesn't get a chance to survive, because obviously what we heard means that's okay? When drowning grandpas and grandmothers are sentenced to death by not putting them on a ventilator because there's simply not enough doctors and nurses, do you think that's okay? If the grandparents never come out of the hospital again because you, your boss and colleagues, your prime minister, destroyed health care in ten years, chased two doctors and three nurses out of this country every day, and otherwise wasted the country's money on stadiums, tens and hundreds of billions of people out of health care, that's normal operation, and the health system doesn't reek? You think that's okay? Please tell me, Mr. Secretary, how many old people died without a respirator? How old is the virus, and how old are the Fidesz and your victim? How many people are dead on your hands? And please spare me the usual crap that DK is not a pro-vaccination community. Because all the statistics and all the experience show that we are significantly more pro-vaccination than you are. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You started a year ago with the fact that there aren't enough ventilators in Hungary. When the government acquired most of the ventilators in Europe, they said that there were too many, too expensive ventilators, and now they say again, like a year ago and two changes of opinion before; now they say again why there are no more ventilators. Honourable Congressman, As opposed to many other European countries, all patients in Hungary are both elderly and young, with a ventilator, a bed, a staff, a medicine needed to handle it. [[13.30]] During the summer, 3643 doctors and 9535 nurses were given special training to provide assistance to patients with a severe coronal virus. On the other hand, while we acquired ventilators and trained doctors and nurses, all you did was attack the defense and the Hungarians were tuned against the vaccines. You personally said you looked into the future and saw in your oracle of the future: if Orbán continues to force the Chinese vaccine, there will be no one million vaccinees. Well, fortunately, we are now approaching three million, honourable Member, and this is due to the fact that there are also Chinese vaccines. Nearly a million and a half people wouldn't have immunity today if we had done what you said; and you were able to put another shovel on it, because a few days ago on ATV you said you had to see that we weren't specifically campaigning against a vaccine; that is, not just against the Chinese, but also against the Russian. Well, congratulations on your ability to acknowledge that, Your Honour. If we had listened to you, to this day nearly a million and a half fewer people would be protected, and by the end of May nearly three and a half million people would be less protected, young and old alike. You can see in other countries that even the elderly have not been vaccinated, you can see the small rate of inoculation of the elderly in Italy. We took the elderly in advance because they were the most at risk, of course, if we had listened to you, there wouldn't have been anything to inoculate them, because there wouldn't have been a vaccine. Honourable Congressman, You are the eighth signatory to the proposal for a parliamentary decision, which states in its explanatory statement that there is no possibility of vaccination with a Chinese vaccine in Hungary that is not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. Be the first to withdraw this proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Finance: When will the missed self-employed and small businesses receive income support? It's an address. Mr President, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent on the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás Schanda, State Secretary will answer the question. Now it's Congressman Csárdi's turn. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-93	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Even though they talk about gradual re-opening and continuous re-launching, the Hungarian workers are still unsupported, they are in a vulnerable position, millions of people feel what it feels like to be let down by the Government of Hungary. Many families do not receive any financial assistance from the government. The only thing the government can say to families in a hopeless situation is that there will be some way. Of course, in the meantime, you've come to luxury hotels, private foundations, world hunting fairs, motorcycle racetracks, and I'd have a long list of hundreds of billions of forints that you've distributed to your own buddies. A recent European study revealed that Hungary received the least wage support in its proportions from the countries of the European Union. This represents 3 per cent, with 50 per cent in a couple in Croatia, and I could list it in length, but even in Poland, the number of families supported is 10 per cent. Dear Secretary of State, Why is there no full wage support where income has fallen because of the crisis? When will individual enterprises and small enterprises who have been left out of all subsidies receive income support? Why isn't the re-opening support for those who could open now when the time comes for those who were without income for weeks and months is still announced? I think that every small enterprise is right to expect that the future can be planned for it, and I think it is time to publish this information. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A few days ago, in this Parliament, we had the opportunity to talk about the government's support measures, just in connection with your speech. I told you then, and I am now confirming that it is difficult to argue that you are not aware of the fundamental facts and data. I said it then, and I also confirm that our aim is to protect as many Hungarian jobs as possible with the various measures taken by the government, as many Hungarians as possible. The government has undertaken and is now committed to creating at least as many jobs as the coronal virus epidemic will destroy in this terrible situation, which threatens people's lives, health and the economy as well. Honourable Congressman, In contrast to what you have said, we have been able to help over 1 million 660,000 people with the government's actions so far. But on the other hand, what did the left do? What has the Gyurcsány coalition done, of which you are a member, either for the health of the Hungarian people or for the sake of the economy? [[Zoltán Varga: How many people died?]] It can be summarized briefly, honourable Member: nothing! If it were up to you, there would have been no protection rules at the end of February, no wage support, and no credit moratorium. Honourable Congressman, You have a paper on it, when you had the opportunity to support these programs here in Parliament, you voted no. He told the Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian companies that there was no need for a credit moratorium, no need for wage support, and no need for the Hungarian government to provide them with any assistance. After that, your question is unworthy, and it is unworthy to take account of it. Honourable Congressman, In your constituency, the left-wing leadership, who are your allies, during this period gave the Institute of Political History an apartment of 120 square meters for 24 500 HUF. It means they're spending on themselves, giving business and companies nothing. It's left-wing politics. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Busted!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, "Is this the beginning?" It's an address. Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary will answer you, honourable Member. Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor, please.
u2021-04-12-97	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I used to insist as campaign leader and then as a candidate for congress that elections should not be about hate, not about lies. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Too bad it didn't work out.]] Voters deserve peace of mind and that elections should be clean and programme-based. Unfortunately, that was never expected of you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is more about Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] My predecessor, Tamás Pintér, and I had to endure the most filthy lies and the most disgusting allegations. As a result, our backs have become quite wide over the years, so I was no longer bothered by the fact that they made me look like a physical, mentally disabled person, and I was not bothered by the fact that they lied about my place of residence. However, when my wife, my family, was targeted, that was a lot, fortunately not only for me, but also for the electorate. The most tragic part of their campaign was when public newspapers claimed that if the opposition wins the municipal elections, we will feed them and the Dunaújváros after the admission of migrants with the meat of stray animals. You have heard: it has indeed appeared from our taxpayers' forints to help the Fidesz campaign. And now I can't talk about the media propaganda, the physical attacks on our posters or our activists, because there's no time. Well, I have no good news for the Hungarian people, the news has just come to light that the free weekly newspaper City7 has started to be scattered in hundreds of thousands of copies in several opposition-led cities of the country, and the goal is to embarrass the opposition with lies and bring their government to heaven through the columns of the newspaper. In the first newspaper, it is obvious to everyone: it is nothing more than the hate campaign already routinely used by Fidesz. So I ask the Secretary of State: how long do Hungarians have to tolerate your lying propaganda poisoning our families and our homes? Is this newspaper the beginning of the campaign? Because if you do, then I apologize on your behalf. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Forgive me, but we do not follow the reports of all local media, but in general I can tell you that I do not consider it my job to classify the editorial work of any medium. In any case, we're not going to break into editorials. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Just like your ally did. We will not barge into a TV headquarters, as virtually all left-wing party representatives have, and we will not threaten journalists by banning them from their profession, as your ally did a few days ago. [[13.40]] This has all happened in the past, and you have not raised your word [[Interventions from opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, it is clear that you do not consider freedom of opinion important, but quite simply joined the left-wing choir, which is simply disturbed by the fact that there are many opinions in the Hungarian public. As far as non-public family members are concerned, I do not think non-public family members have to deal with the same thing as public actors. If we agree on this, let us add that your fellow parties and allies do not agree with us, because if you look at an elected parliamentary meeting, you constantly attack family members. As for aggressiveness, your new boss threatened government representatives with prison a few days ago. Before that, they threatened to run to the ground. Another of his allies would start conceptual lawsuits from a party. Their group leader sees the essence of his policy in making Parliament a field of constant riots. So, if you want a more normal tone and less hatred in Hungarian public life, then I ask you to knock on his door and then you can go to the tiny villa together. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. When will they hear the words of those involved in the matter of graduation? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Digital education, which has been taking place since last March, where it has succeeded, has become a joint project of teachers and parents, with little central assistance. The government did not pay attention to the biggest losers in the system; I am thinking primarily of those who, without home internet, computer, or electricity, could not be involved in education, so there is a good chance that they will crumble. A tablet for 40,000 forints would make available the VAT that comes back to the budget, including a discount, to less than 1 million 200 thousand day-class students, which would have cost only HUF 40 billion. He would have used more for this nation than the National Hausmann programme, which was spent twice as much in addition to budget appropriations, Mr. Secretary of State. Among the biggest losers in the past year are graduation students. Not only did they miss an adult initiation ceremony like graduation or graduation banquet, but they also lost the possibility of direct exam preparation, which is drama. Even though it is said that last year's GPA was even better than usual, the results of the current trial maturity are worse than the multi-annual averages. So those who are about to graduate will be predictably injured by the past abnormal school year. These students have lost 14 months out of 20 months, Mr. Secretary of State. The health issue is even more important than what will happen to graduates who face more difficult tasks than are expected to face. There will be no shift of teachers until graduation, which is why a lot of people are concerned, and they are very much looking for the government and the various trade unions, Mr. Secretary of State. I respectfully ask you when you will listen to the words of the graduates and the others involved. Hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-102	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the one hand, you said that there was no need for digital education, but for presence education, and on the other hand you criticised the fact that the government, after inoculating 2.5 million people after the vaccination of teachers, gradually switched to presenceal education in several steps. You criticize everything. It's also digital, and it's presenceal education. It shows that you have no idea, by the way, but you're attacking everything, and in two minutes, you're claiming to be the opposite of yourself. Last year, you suggested, not only you, but also different trade unions, to prevent graduation at the cost of boycotts. The graduation was completed, the students finished with about the same average as before; 80,000 students in the spring, 30,000 students in the fall, and none of the epidemiology focal points developed. You guys were constantly pissing me off, but you would have made the future of these students uncertain if you had really canceled your graduation. This year, too, we are preparing to have basically written exams in the highest possible safety conditions, small group trainings in schools can be carried out in person, disinfection, masking, maximum number of 10 persons per classroom, body temperature measurement, distance retention were all measures introduced last year, which helped prevent the development of an infectious goose, but thus managed to hold the exams, and for example, the number of repeats in students decreased compared to the previous one. It is also important that we have undertaken the extra vaccination of teachers. Let me also quote the teachers' union. The PS said that it is essential to immediately vaccinate people in public education and vocational training. The PDSZ said that out of the staff involved in the care, training and training of children, students, those who have applied for vaccination should be vaccinated with vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency. This vaccine is happening now. What you've asked us to do on a professional basis, what you're trying to do on a political basis, let's put it in the political drawer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Why have Hungarians been deprived of hundreds of billions of forints? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and State Secretary András Tállai will answer you. Here you go. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2021-04-12-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Years ago, the European Commission presented a proposal to publish a country-by-country breakdown of EU-based multinationals with an annual turnover of more than EUR 750 million, in which Member States the EU makes profits and in which Member States the tax has been paid, as well as in relation to countries outside the EU that are considered tax havens. Five years later, at this meeting of the Council of Economic Ministers, a qualified majority of Member States supported the creation of regulation, and although this proposed legislation does not directly prohibit profit transfer practices, this reporting obligation, through the figures being published, could therefore constitute a deterrent for companies, which would constitute a significant additional tax revenue for our Hungarian budget. The regulation will therefore encourage companies to pay taxes where profits have been obtained. Unfortunately, from a study quoted by Portfolio, it turns out that the profit transfer practice of companies only deprived Hungarians of HUF 210 billion of tax revenue in 2017. In light of this, of course, we could have thought that the government would be the leader in finally putting an end to this practice and creating regulation. However, this was not the case, but the Hungarian government was a blocking minority all along when the regulation was created, so it did not support this regulation in the February Council vote either, so that our country is specifically one of the losers of this multi-company exercise. So the Hungarian people fell from HUF 210 billion. The government therefore supports that the multinationals take the money out of the pockets of the Hungarian people. Actually, the only question is how much you're getting for this. I ask Mr Secretary of State why Hungarian people were deprived of hundreds of billions of forints, which today could be used to combat the epidemic, to protect the health and safety of Hungarian people. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're simply not telling the truth. He didn't take it away from any hundred billion forints with this decision, making decisions. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] the Hungarian government has the Hungarian budget. This is because it is about amending a directive, its draft, its negotiation. It's not a directive yet, it's not a law. This was at the Competitiveness Council meeting. In addition to the Hungarians, Cyprus, Ireland, Sweden, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Luxembourg and Malta argue that the legal basis for the negotiation is wrong. [[13.50]] The Legal Service of the European Council also stated in its opinion of 2016 that it should be negotiated not by this committee, the Accounting Committee, but by the tax authority. The difference between the two is that in tax matters there is a need for a complete consensus to continue the amendment of the directive, while in this committee there is enough minority. Otherwise, the so-called Coreper will be enough, and this will bring this to the European Parliament. Therefore, the Hungarian Government did not prevent the adoption of this directive in any way. The Hungarian government has always supported the amendment of anti-tax evasion legislation. [[Márta Demeter: That's not true!]] You probably missed the XLII 14th year. Act CXC of 15 was avoided from financial accounts. Act No. 17, CXI on the exchange of country-by-country reports. In order to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, Act III of 2021 should be amended accordingly. It also includes bilateral agreements with the US and full and maximum transposition of EU legislation on this issue. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] If you take these into account, you will admit that you have just made a false statement in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. It is now possible to speak on a case-by-case basis in accordance with house rules. In the case of a statement in order of business, the period shall be one minute, if the question is of personal concern, two minutes. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Turdai. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wish to speak on account of personal concerns, so I will speak in two minutes. The Secretary of State couldn't give me any meaningful answer to my question about taking responsibility for world record deaths, so he attacked me in my person with lies. And then let's look at the facts, just so the National Assembly can face it. Indeed, in January, I quote literally what I posted: Péter Szijjártó spent most of the year ordering Putin to feed the Hungarians with propaganda about the Russian vaccine, with which only one thing he achieved: suspicion against vaccines ran to amazing heights. This was done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs when no information was yet available on the effectiveness of the vaccine, and I was concerned that they would undermine public confidence with such unfounded propaganda, which is really essential for the practice of fighting. On February 2, the results of the Sputnik vaccine came out in the magazine De Lancet, and then... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Have you read it?]] I have read the communications on this, and from then on we know that it also works with more than 91 percent effectiveness. From now on, this vaccine can be offered to people with a really good heart. That's what we did, every time we said we offered effective, effective, medically tested vaccines to everyone. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not what you did!]] And when I got a chance to get myself vaccinated with this, then in accordance with what we said before that everyone would accept it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In contrast!]] the approved vaccines, I've taken this vaccine. So we are really doing everything we can to increase the confidence in vaccination and vaccination. This can also be seen from the poll that it is successful, according to which opposition voters, who listened to us and not to themselves, show an eight point greater willingness to be vaccinated. So you should be sweeping around your own house and not pointing lies at opposition representatives again. [[The president's gonna ring the bell. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-12-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for immediate questioning. Mr Péter Jakab and Members of Mr György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think about this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Mr György Szilágyi, with respect, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-111	Mr. President. We will wait for the exclusively responsible Viktor Orbán.
u2021-04-12-112	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Members, that instead of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári can answer. I ask you, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister for his answer personally?
u2021-04-12-113	Thank you very much. We'll be looking forward to hearing from the Minister in person. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-114	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Members, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How long are they pursuing anti-rural policy? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Here, the virus situation has covered up some sensitive transactions in the field of agriculture, and I would like to ask you about them. For the third year, agriculture has been hit by a very serious drought spring, although if everything goes well, it may end today, but in many cases it will be a late precipitation. Indeed, ten years ago, within the walls of the House, the then Fidesz government promised to make serious reforms in the field of irrigation, and, according to our country's capabilities, a much higher rate of irrigation will be available to farmers. We're kind of sad about that. I would like to know what numbers the Minister has, yet how many hectares it has become easier to irrigate to Hungarian farmers today. I'm also interested in the fact that a recent corruption scandal has swept through your ministry, and I know there's been an investigation, obviously you can't give out all the information. But what we would be interested to know is that, given the details of the case in the press, one feels that it wasn't an accident, but perhaps it was part of the routine. What exactly is the Minister's experience? Is that really how the Ministry works? Or have you taken any steps since then so that a similar corruption transaction can no longer appear in the Ministry? I would also like to know how you feel about the current state of the aid policy, as there have also been very serious promises that, compared to previous periods, they will reverse the blatant injustice and that the majority of EU and domestic resources will be able to obtain a wider range of funds from the larger register. Compared to this, we are now talking about the fact that almost 80 percent of the billions of euros are receiving the best 10%, and this is indeed a blatant disproportionateness. What have you done? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] To turn this ratio around? Because apparently, whatever it is, it didn't work. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-117	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Indeed, there are serious challenges and superhuman struggles in everyday life, and from here, from this place, we should thank each farmer for the persistent work that during the pandemic, during the Covid epidemic, fresh foods could be on the table every day for all of us. This is a huge achievement and a huge achievement, thanks to them from here, also from this place. It is not enough that there is a pandemic epidemic, but that there is a threat of swine fever virus, avian influenza virus, and weather factors are also making production difficult, as drought damage and frost damage are now being discussed in a series of years, which is obviously not a small test and a difficult production. What does the Hungarian government do against what one cannot defend itself against? If it rains, if it doesn't rain, it can't make it rain, and it can't reduce the frost much, just slightly. The government has made a decision to raise the Compensation Fund by HUF 3 billion, so that each farmer can receive the compensation allowance to the extent that he is entitled to. Indeed, since 2018 the new government has been programmed on irrigation, which is why we adopted the Law on Irrigation Management together, which is why it is possible to spend 17-17 billion HUF per year on the development of irrigation infrastructure for ten years. [[14.00]] We therefore support the establishment of irrigation communities, of which more than sixty are already in the country, and I have to say that we can support 90% of their operation. And I'm happy to report to you that the Ministry has also recognised the watering community of Mosoni's landowners, so that they will be able to apply successfully for the large scale [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Irrigation development. I believe that the Hungarian Government is doing everything in its power to support farmers and Hungarian agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-118	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, fellow Members, Congressman Tamás Bellozó is... [[Interviews from Jobbik: Is there no rejoinder? Dr. Brenner Koloman: Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm used to being on the questions, yeah. In return, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there are a lot of specifics in this answer, although we would have liked to have heard about, for example, the situation with the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate. Only for those who may not follow it on a daily basis: 30 thousand hectares are very high-quality land worth 40 gold crowns, most of which can be watered, and the Minister will surely be the victim of such a new model of privatisation, since you also did it with the dirty twelve, for example, in the case of Mosonmagyaróvár, when the state wealth was played out for your own oligarch. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now this new model is crowding into foundation property, and there are prominent figures here in the Foundation's Curatorium, such as János Lázár and György Simonka's fellow Member. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Seriously?! You can't be serious.]] I would be very interested to know why, after the ten-billion-dollar expansion of public funds, after the development, after the renovations in the monuments, all this has to be played out into a foundational fortune. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-121	Thank you very much. I must, in particular, reject the accusations of corruption in my fellow Member's speech. There is zero tolerance in the Ministry, which is why from the very first moment we immediately initiated the acquittal of the Deputy Secretary of State. Returning to the aid policy, there is no such strict restrictive aid policy anywhere in Hungary as we have reduced the eligible land size at 1,200 hectares. My fellow Member knows that there are 100,000 farmers in Hungary with less than 10 hectares. What he says, when he mixes the season with the guy, is that in animal husbandry, in various subsidies where they require investment, where farmers add every second forint..., so you have to not only look at how much they have received, they add the same amount. And, my dear fellow Member, he considers himself a professional, how many animals in Hungary would we be able to provide care if these settlements were not built if these people did not invest their private assets in obtaining these subsidies? And as a model economy, it is infinitely important for the future generation. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Time!]] to preserve the state's wealth that ensures that our grandchildren can also have good agricultural land and good fresh water resources in Hungary. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Time! One minute forty!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-122	I'd like everyone to try and keep up the time frame. [[Dr. István Nagy: I apologize, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. Here comes Mr Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, who wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the subject of the current issues. Mr President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-04-12-123	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-124	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, and also the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the real situation? It's an address. Mr. notary, because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[On Dr. László Varga's mark:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of March, on 25 March, János Bélteczki, Director General of the Almási Pál Hospital in Ózd, spoke to the Ozd TV about the Covid situation in the local hospital. In this interview, he talked about some 150 covid patients who are being cared for in the Ozd hospital, 17 patients with intensive covids in a hospital where there are normally seven intensive beds. I would like to quote from this interview a literal sentence from the Director-General: the virus situation is terrible, please imagine the footage we saw in the Italian situation at the time. This was said by Director General János Bélteczki on a day when 196 553 people were infected at national level, today's data has increased by 272 459, i.e. 76 thousand people have been infected since then. This has been the subject of reactions, brief communications from your Ministry, EMMI, and partly from the National Hospital Directorate-General, which have been briefly described as a lie. Look, I would like to point out that the victim-made work of health workers and doctors is exemplary and the Director General of the Ozd Hospital is well-known, and this statement is nothing more than a cry for help. However, you have made this statement in a very invaluable way, not to mention the real situation. My first question, Mr. Secretary: where do you get the courage to lie to a respected hospital director, even if you do this indirectly? My second question is, who are those ministry workers, colleagues, professionals who personally check your environment at the Ozd hospital? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] experienced conditions? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-12-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, about the circumstances of the interview, because you painted reality a little differently than it did: a crew actually went in with the director to do an interview, the interview was filmed in his room, and none of this was said on TV, but went around the corridors when the camera was turned on, and what sentence could be taken out of it was then used, and they tried to coordinate the public opinion against the hospital in this way, honourable Member. This is the real story of this. The next day, you asked who it was who looked at the conditions, János Révész, the head of the institution of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Central Hospital, personally convinced you that the institution had been able to provide both emergency and acute care, as well as the supply of the corona virus and the operation of the vaccination points from its own resources, so that all patients could be cared for. The beds are available, as the head of the center hospital also says, the beds are available, the building infrastructure is suitable for the care of the patients, so the hospital has not requested external assistance for the staff, so all tasks have been solved with the help of its own staff, its own beds and its own equipment. The National Hospital Directorate-General will do everything in its power to ensure proper patient care, and, as you pointed out, the National Hospital Directorate-General has also issued a declaration on 29 March that the capacities will always be used where they are most needed, so everyone has the ventilator, the necessary staff and medicines available, and all those in need will be provided hospital care with the ventilator. Let us not forget, it was you who attacked the supply of ventilators, honourable Member, not those who facilitated it, not those who sought new sources of ventilator, medicine or vaccine, all of which you attacked. In Brussels, the Commission was attacked not to allow Hungary to purchase Eastern vaccines, while we were [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We were engaged in training 3643 doctors and 9535 nurses next to the hospital bed during the summer so that they would be able to treat patients with the coronal virus if the British mutant came to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varga. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I've seen this footage, and it's in an office, by the way, the Director General. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: If it isn't the sentence they cut out of it. The president's ringing the bell.]] You've been avoiding the answer to my question. The fact is that he did not explain the incredible and tragic figure that Hungary has been the fourth worst place in the world since the Covid outbreak started. [[14.10]] Unfortunately, in the last few weeks, he has been at the top of this issue; and in the fourth place, he stands ahead of two mini-states, San Marino and Gibraltar, as well as the Czech Republic. There can be two explanations for this whole situation if health workers are willing to do their job. These are the two explanations that the health infrastructure has not been sufficiently developed in the last 11 years, and in the last year there have often been no measures taken or delayed measures. In other words, this situation is your responsibility. By the way, this is what the Prime Minister said back in September. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] When he measured the success of the defense in human lives, he said in an interview or said that the responsibility should be borne by the government. So take responsibility for the situation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-12-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you can see, hospitals, health systems and the whole country in every country in Europe, and even in every country in the world, are facing tasks that, fortunately, have not been caused by an epidemic. That's why the government is trying to get all the ventilators, all the medicine, and as many vaccines as possible, because the vaccine can help fight the epidemic. Therefore, today we have been able to provide vaccination for 1.5 million more people than if we had listened to you; and by the end of May, this number will be three and a half million. You are the signatory to the decision proposal, which you have signed in your explanatory statement, which can still be read on the National Assembly's website: you cannot be vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine in Hungary that is not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. You should at least do what is necessary for the success of the defence to withdraw this motion, in which it is stated in its explanatory statement. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Not to be vaccinated with Chinese or Russian vaccinations, honourable Member. [[Dr. László Varga: Answer the question... Applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, who is responsible for the unprecedented destruction of the epidemic? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: I accept, thank you.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, Hungary has been leading for almost four weeks all statistics showing how the number of deaths due to Covid is developing worldwide. Hungary has been leading the statistics based on the weekly average for the fourth week: Hungary produces the worst results in terms of the weekly average in the world, where most people die from Covid's disease. If we look at daily data, we've been number one in the world for nearly three weeks, ahead of all other countries, where most people die from this infection in proportion to their population. You could highlight several days from the last month, I will do one, when the milestone is that more than 300 deaths have occurred in Hungary thanks to Covid. This happened on March 31st. On that day, 14 European countries did not all die in Covid as in Hungary alone, because in these 14 countries, if we count Portugal, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Greece, and I might say, there were 300 deaths on the same day because of Covid, while in Hungary, I mentioned, the same number was 302. If we look at a population ratio, this means that death per million inhabitants in Hungary was 17 times higher than in these 14 countries. What does the government say is responsible for this unprecedented destruction? The government points to the opposition and launches a campaign to discredit the opposition, or when it believes it is pointing to Brussels and blaming the purchase of vaccine in Brussels. However, I ask you, with all due respect, Secretary of State, to answer who is really responsible for the unprecedented destruction of this epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give Mr. Balázs Orbán the opportunity to respond. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think maybe the only thing we can agree on is that the coronal virus epidemic is a very serious pandemic, which, unfortunately, requires a serious number of victims in every country in the world. I think it is completely arbitrary to highlight certain periods, we could also highlight periods in which other countries were better off than those countries that are now better off. In the case of Hungary, the British mutant rages throughout the Central and Eastern European region, and we are struggling with the third wave of the epidemic. But if you are looking at the additional mortality data for last year, which is the only objective measure in this respect, then we can see that for the whole year 2020 it is said that in this otherwise sad statistics and once again, Hungary has done better than the average of the European Union for all human lives. And we will be able to draw the final balance when this epidemic is over. In the meantime, I think that is the most important thing, and this is also the key to success, in order to get vaccination to as many Hungarians as possible. At the moment, in this race, it is a race for life against time, especially in a European Union comparison, thanks to God, we are doing well, 2.9 million Hungarians have been vaccinated, and we want to get to the 4 million border as soon as possible and beyond. In this, we believe that the entire Hungarian political side should support health care workers and those involved in the training. On the other hand, for your part, we find that they are instigating against tested and safe vaccines and are trying to undermine their credibility in the press. What are you talking about, Congressman? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-137	That's what we're talking about, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, that's what I'd like to ask. You're talking about 2020 and 20 averages, and now I'm talking about the third wave, the last month. There you can't find a statistical segment and perspective where it doesn't come out that the situation in Hungary is the most dramatic, where most people die. You can't find that segment, I'm telling you. He's been talking about last year, and I've been talking about it lately. It was your government that, during this period, over the last 11 years, has brought medical expenses below 7 percent of GDP. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We spent 915 billion more!]] You were the ones who waited for the 100 victims a day last year to stage the Super Cup final. You were the ones who fired 5,500 medical personnel at the peak of the epidemic, saying good-bye to them with the new contracts. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We didn't fire anyone!]] And I could tell you a lot of memorable things, but not a minute. I will answer the question, Mr. Secretary of State, who really is responsible: you are responsible for the death of hundreds of people in this epidemic because of your actions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is because of you that Hungary is in the worst state now in the third wave of the epidemic. It's all thanks to you.
u2021-04-12-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-139	Congressman, let's not mess with each other. Compared to the period when you were in government position, we are currently spending HUF 915 billion more on health care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! No less, more!]] And then during the previous crisis, which was not a pandemic, but a crisis of an economic nature, you have paid for health care, you have abolished beds, and you have driven away doctors and health workers. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] And now the sector is getting an unprecedented wage increase. What are we talking about, Congressman? And the thing is, as long as you're making and supporting parliamentary decisions, there's also your signature that's instigating you against tested and safe vaccines. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: 25,000 people!]] Until then, what do you think you're doing to support the defense? Until then, you're just plain anti-vaccination. As long as the general doctor, the DK politician, can be part of the party, who thinks the disease is better than some vaccines, what are we talking about, Congressman? [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's not what he said!]] That's literally what it said! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what he said!]] I'm sorry, I can't be more modest. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Apologize, not to us, to the Hungarian people! Thank you very much. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: That's right!- Applause from the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-04-12-141	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-142	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is the explanation of this? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State for his reply. [[On the signal of Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-143	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It would take hours just to list what you were incompetent at government. I would like to ask you now about a case that rightly upsets people all over the country: this is the reproduction or re-production of illegal landfills. In February last year Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made a very clear promise: illegal landfills will be eliminated and the perpetrators will be held accountable. We can see that the situation has unfortunately not improved since then. At national level, I would like to underline the gravity of the situation with one of the biggest scandals: in December 2019, shortly before Christmas, a truck between Manfa and Komló dumped 40 tons of plastic and rubber waste without any permission in a municipal area, without the municipality's knowledge and permission. Now, the truck is buried in the mud, the unsub is caught, and since then, it's been discovered that the waste comes from Italy. Technically, it caused a huge scandal, a national scandal, and all the information was at the disposal of the authorities. I recently received a letter from the National Bureau of Investigation, who, after a year and a half, found that because of the facts and evidence available, the crime could not be established, the investigation was closed. Dear Secretary of State, The waste has been there ever since, and the government office hasn't done its job. We can say that laws are bad, intelligence is insufficient, and government agencies do not even use the means available. The fact is, Mr Secretary, that you have not only solved this task, but have hindered the work of the authorities by not making the legal environment fit. We have made proposals many times before, and they have been swept off without justification. It's a disgrace, it's right to disturb people all over the country. We will do the work that you have been unable to do: we will submit a bill that will punish this outrage with such rigour that it will have a deterrent effect. My question, Mr Secretary, is that you are at least willing to vote in favour of the bill that we have tabled. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The truth is, over the last few months, you have had the opportunity to express your attitude towards waste, how you would like to eliminate illegal waste, how you really operate as a green party. Congressman, you've had your chance. The Parliament discussed proposals for legislative amendments which include how to act even more strictly against illegal litters, how we will otherwise clean up the country, what punishments and what liability systems will be created. Congressman, we discussed this here in Parliament. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: So?]] and then, when it was time to vote, when you had to make a decision, when you had to do so, honourable Member, to press the yes button, you voted no. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] Then you didn't support us being tougher, being more efficient, setting up a waste management authority. That's how green you are. They are fake green, they are green, they are green in their name, they are not taking a step to make Hungary a cleaner country. They couldn't press a button to set up the waste department, and we could act harder against illegal garbage. Congressman! Nevertheless, we will do this, and we will do it even if your mayor, Gergely Christmas, who also calls himself green, but who does not have any real commitment, does not fight against illegal waste disposals, he does not fight against littering, but removes public dumpsters in Budapest. The mayor who calls himself the green mayor will remove the public dumpsters in Budapest! [[(Dr. Bence Rétvári: Unheard of!]] Shame on you! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-12-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the matter of the faction leader.
u2021-04-12-147	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was your campaign text...
u2021-04-12-148	Mr. Team Leader, just a minute. From now on!
u2021-04-12-149	Mr. Secretary. That was your campaign text, that was your lie, and I'm gonna get that to the people around Pécs who are outraged. Dear Secretary of State, For a year and a half, 40 tons of garbage has been lying in an area, and no perp, according to your authority, hasn't even committed a crime. This is your perfect incompetence, Your Honour. My request was that if you were unable to pass a fair law or to introduce a law, bring it before the Parliament and vote by two thirds, which could actually achieve the goal of eliminating illegal landfills and punishing and prosecuting offenders, then at least allow our bill to be passed by the Parliament. The evidence of your incompetence has been lying there for a year and a half at the border between Manfa and Komló. Give some kind of explanation to the people who live there, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: That's right!]] Thank you.
u2021-04-12-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The truth is, you're not listening to my answer. [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] We agree with the people of Pécs and many decent people in Hungary that, indeed, the state of waste in Hungary is that our public spaces, our cities, our settlements are full of illegal waste. [[Dr. László László Keresztes, you think the president is ringing the bell.]] It's not right, it's not right. Dear Congressman, I didn't yell at you either. Exactly, that's why we put him in front of Parliament and the civil, national, sober right-wing majority passed that law. [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] which creates the waste authority, which tightens the penalties, and you did not support this amendment as a false green, Virtigle left-wing representative, so it is good for you, as it is now. Nevertheless, we will eliminate illegal waste. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]]
u2021-04-12-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Team Leader, take a moment to calm down. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to answer for his absence. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-153	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-04-12-154	Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] I'll inform you, Congressman Varju. and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the next hour of immediate questions. I just wanted to let you know when Prime Minister has to answer. [[László Varju: Thank you very much, Mr President, I am grateful.]] Please. Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why are you spreading deadly lies?" It's an address. Because of his absence, the Prime Minister asked Minister István Nagy to respond. [[On Bence Torda:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, So the question is why they spread deadly lies. Their first and most deadly lie is that a coronal virus epidemic can only be stopped by vaccinations. Many countries, from Japan to Singapore, to New Zealand, have been very eloquent in disproved about this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation!]] or, in fact, the countries of northern Europe, which had obtained a vaccine before (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation!) , testing, contact research, smart, data-based governance, targeted measures and measures were used to stop the epidemic (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation!) The deaths due to Covid were reduced to zero or close to zero. This is good governance, and this is what the Orbán government cannot do, which took the lives of more than 23,000 Hungarians, and will take the lives of many others, looking at the current figures. So what I'm asking you to do is that this deadly lie, that any other task against an epidemic can be forgotten, stop, don't say again that it's just the vaccination, because in addition to the vaccination and the vaccination, it's a lot of other measures that can stop the epidemic together. Stop lying so mean that the first shot will give you immunity from the very first moment. Don't do that. On Sunday, they'll still be inoculating public education workers, and then they'll be sent to work on Monday, where they'll be crowded with dozens of children in small-scale classrooms. [[14.30]] No, two weeks after the second shot, you'll get full immunity, so let's note this. Stop spreading the deadly lie that after the inoculation of two and a half or three million people in a ten million-year-old country, we have any common protection. No! You can't relax when the numbers are skyrocketing [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You wanted to relax in February!]] The world's leading country in death. I want you to be responsible for this. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister István Nagy on behalf of Prime Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-12-157	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, We both agree that every single person's life is a treasure, and every single person's life is important. What we have in common is to save as many people as possible. We must fight to save all human lives. What you raised as the first point is that it is not true that the plague can only be stopped by vaccinations, let me correct you. Because there's prevention and there's protection. What you're talking about is prevention, but it never serves the formation of antibodies in a body. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So someone could be protected. Therefore, the two must prevail together, it is truly effective. I have to tell you that if Hungary hadn't been hit by this British mutant, which had arrived and which was raging in Eastern Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, and if the Hungarian government hadn't been prepared, it wouldn't have dealt with tactically, premeditatedly, vaccine procurement, then there would be a big problem. But the fact that we are advanced in vaccination, we are double percent like the European Union, it is a fantastic thing. Every speech like this confirms that there is no need to be an applicant. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Bence of Turdai: I didn't say!]] I would like to ask my fellow Member not to do this. Don't do this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Anti-inoculation! Csaba Dömötör: That's right!]] Please, I beg you, don't do this. Because the production of antibodies for each vaccinated person protects his life and protects the life of another person. This is a very, very important thing to do. Turning to the issue of the first vaccination, it provides protection of at least 50-70%. So now you can give a man an advantage that he can safely go with. If you are given the second injection, you will develop immunity, a daily increase in the level of antibodies you need to feel safe. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-158	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-159	Mr. Secretary, you've been commendably low-key compared to the rest of the Fidesz, but I still have to ask you not to twist my words. So let's record: the more we put out, the better it is, the more we put out, but put the case numbers of Denmark and Hungary, which are also very high. In Hungary, in the last few days, I am saying a seven-day moving average, 244 people died. 244 deaths a day, 1.57 deaths in Denmark. Yeah, what if the British mutant hadn't come? But he came and we knew he was coming, and you forgot to prepare. Other European countries and other countries on other continents have prepared for it. What do you mean, it would have been a tragedy if they hadn't been prepared? What's going on? World's top death, 250 deaths a day on average. It's a tragedy! I beg you, pull yourselves together. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2021-04-12-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-161	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, Indeed, all life matters, and we have a responsibility. But it should also be taken into account that as many countries serve statistical models of so many accuracy There is. The real comparison is when the epidemic comes to an end and we look at what we have achieved with grafting, how many deaths have become, comparing the average of the previous year, the average of the following year with the average of at least three years, what mortality figures were. Then we see the actual data in all European countries. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] This is a very thin ice and it is a very disadvantaged situation that Hungary provides the data with fair and precise precision, and then the government is drawn onto the water sheet, while other countries are trying to escape, to gain daily time to survive the political consequences of the virus epidemic. But I have to say, it's the end of the accounts. The surest thing is to compare the same period of years, and then see what the cause of death is due to the real coronal virus. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-162	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Pesti Imre, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Mr President, because of the absence of Minister, Mr Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State for his reply. [[Dr. Imre Pesti: I accept.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Imre Pesti has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The other day, Klára Dobrev claimed on her social networking site that health care workers could receive up to 100,000 less wages after their new service. A few hours later, of course, the National Hospital Directorate General denied this news, a lie. You see, the left is preparing for the election because, taking advantage of the virus situation, they're building a whole campaign on their lying claims. According to their calculations, in the case of many dead people, the government could fail. To this end, rumors of hospitals, ventilators, tests have already been spread, and paramedics, policemen, and defense workers have been attacked. Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos went so far as to make a fake news video, and also forged death statistics. It is shocking that, despite this, it has not been removed from the head of the Civil Welfare Committee for Epizootic Treatment. Then, under the leadership of Ákos Hadházy, they began a distasteful campaign of death, who first published reprimanding footage from a morgue. Announcing the population, they demanded that we open up when it would have been completely unwarranted. Defensive protection is threatened by creating uncertainty about vaccines in humans. And their health-care politician said it was better to get the disease than to take the vaccine. Thanks to the left's anti-vaccination behaviour, many people were forced to reject the vaccine while they themselves were compulsively vaccinated. It is terrible to see the epidemic taking on such a large scale, seeking political benefit from anti-vaccination and the pain of grieving families. Dear Secretary of State, The left clearly made a mistake by encouraging people to reject Eastern vaccines. I respectfully ask how many people have registered for vaccination despite the Left's anti-vaccination campaign, and how would the number of vaccinees have been if we had listened to the left. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-12-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you don't mind, I'd like to make a statement today. A few minutes ago, our colleague Bence Tordai stated that they read a study on the article of an international journal on 2 February about the effectiveness of the Russian vaccine, and since then neither he nor the left have spoken against Russian vaccines. I only had a few minutes, but I did a quick collection. Liar man gets caught faster than a lame dog. This is the case with Bence Tordai, because he himself, a month later than he said he had never spoken against Russian and Eastern vaccines, wrote with his own picture on the Facebook page of Dialogue that the government was not bragging about untested, uncertain vaccines from the East; while a few minutes ago he said here, in front of the public of Parliament, that they and the left did not speak against the Russian vaccine after 2 February. But not only he, Gergely Arató on February 6th:. Most of the Hungarian citizens do not ask for the Russian and Chinese vaccine, which is not authorised by the EU. Or we can go on, Ferenc Gyurcsány on 15 February:. The Chinese and Russian vaccine has not actually been examined, while Bence Tordai said that they have read the extract from the article of the international paper. This is how Ferenc Gyurcsány continued, "I don't want the Hungarian people to be there as guinea pigs." Or we could continue with Sándor Saniszló, Mayor of DK:. Many doctors, many epidemiological experts, have said in the last few days that he too would not be vaccinated with the Russian or Chinese vaccine. Or the other politician Zoltán Komáromi, on February 25th:, I argue that any vaccination is better than the disease. Or Zoltán Varga from DK:. The government is trying to inoculate the Hungarian population with untested, collected and possibly falsified Eastern vaccines. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.40]] These were said after Bence Tordai said that they had not spoken against the Russian vaccine on 2 February. Well, we caught the left one lying again. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Pesti Imre. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This two-faced policy, carried out by this destructive left, is truly outrageous. Indeed, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Katalin Cseh and Péter Jakab called the use of Eastern vaccines a human experiment, i.e. the use of Sinopharm and Sputnik, but once the Germans order a Sputnik vaccine, this vaccine can become presentable immediately. I also find it outrageous that DK's health policyr, so the decisive policyr on the left, dares to claim as a doctor that it is better to avoid vaccination than to take the disease. It's outrageous! As a member of the Health Commission, I had to face the attack on vaccination on a regular basis. It is truly outrageous, and I can say that this left is still against vaccination, while keeping the resolution proposal, because it has not yet been withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is no instrument on the left that has not been used to counter vaccinations and to prevent disease control measures. Where they did not ask for the vaccine in their districts, where parliamentary decrees were submitted, or when the British variant was in flight, István Ujhelyi, or Momentum, András Fekete-Győr, or Peter James demanded the opening loudly. As the Member pointed out, to this day everyone on the National Assembly's website can read the left-wing resolution proposal, which literally states that there is no Chinese vaccine in Hungary that is not allowed by the European Medicines Agency, although vaccination is the only one that can save lives during the epidemic, and all other measures will buy us time, but it is the vaccination that can save lives. I therefore call on you here, at Parliament's meeting, my fellow left-wing Members, who have signed this proposal, and still have their signature there, first Ferenc Gyurcsány, because he is your leader. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] And then all of you sign to withdraw it today. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of the Prime Minister, he appointed Minister István Nagy to respond. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-04-12-171	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Since my question is addressed to the Prime Minister personally, I will ask him for his answer personally. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-172	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who could be the cruelest government in Europe? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for expressing your acceptance of the response. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-173	Mr President, Dear House, Today we have heard a number of professional speeches and a number of B-category stand-ups from various pro-government state ministers, but in the context of the epidemiological emergency, there is a field in which we have not managed to get a bold, masculine stand out of the pro-government. This is the area where, in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, the eviction moratorium which has so far provided temporary relief for families in distress expires in a few weeks, but if it stays that way, as it is now, and the government does not change its provisions, they will start throwing families on the street in the middle of the emergency. When we try to distribute the title of the most ruthless government in Europe and I hope that the Hungarian government will not receive it, we think that this government has assisted more than 1097 evictions in the most severe epidemiological emergency in the months of 2020. These typically mean the removal of Hungarian families without accommodation. In the meantime, let us add that 33 percent and 50 percent bans on the smallest incomes have been burdened throughout the entire epidemic, and we do not see the intention of the government to protect these affected families until the end of the emergency. We'd like to. The essence of our proposal is clear: without accommodation in Hungary until the end of the epidemiological emergency, no one will be evicted from their home, and then our weapons will clash again. But I would not have to give you this most ruthless government title in the near future. I look forward to your meaningful response to your intentions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-175	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, It draws attention to a very serious problem, as the daily lives of poor people, people in economic distress, have been even more miserable because their legal, semi-legal, occasional, regular work has been lost and lost in the course of the epidemic. The Hungarian government immediately suspended the eviction possibilities at the outbreak and imposed a ban on eviction. I think that as long as the epidemic lasts, this moratorium on eviction will be maintained, because the Hungarian government's elementary interest and intention is that the whole motivation for crisis management has gone to how we can economically strengthen the various jobs to keep jobs. We hope for every measure we take to increase and strengthen people's economic power. After all, what have we done to increase this economic strength? We have introduced wage support, a credit moratorium, which is the strongest across Europe, we have let go of contributions, reduced more taxes, we have given significant investment aid to create jobs, we provide unemployment benefits, and anyone who is unable to find a job during that is at least involved in the public work programme, as we have also increased the number of people employed there. We also agreed that we would create and create at least as many jobs as the epidemic has destroyed, and I would like to confirm that right now, I would like to say that this is how it will be, because every person's life is important, and every person is important to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-176	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-177	Mr President, Dear House, I am very, very sorry, Minister, that you have put him in this position to explain the inexplicable, but here he is: in a few weeks the eviction moratorium will expire, and you have not made the provisions that would prolong this. So there's no mention of what you said. It is not written in stone that the evictions will not start again until the end of the epidemiological situation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Left-wing municipalities are launching evictions!]] We also need to tell you that you assist us in selling Hungarian people's debts at a fraction price as a market kofa for debt managers and executives. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Left-wing municipalities do this!]] Despite the fact that the Secretary of State does not know what to say, he cannot say why they do not dare to order the moratorium on eviction. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Starts by left-wing municipalities!]] I'll tell you why. Because you have signed a pact with the EBRD, as a banker's government, that is on the government's website to this day, where you have undertaken to invest in the banks, without interfering in the interests of the injured and without imposing a forint on the banks to settle. Now, be a man, Mr. Secretary, now explain yourself. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You're launching evictions!]] You don't know what, because they slept with the banks, betrayed the victims! When people are on the street in an epidemiological situation [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The right-wingers start it!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The right-wingers start it!]] It's called murder, Mr. Secretary. It's called murder. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Starts by the Betterman!) Don't lie to me. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[14.50]]
u2021-04-12-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Zsolt Fehér, Vác! Dániel Z. Carpathian: You assist in evictions!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please allow it to be said. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-12-179	Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, That's the thing. [[András Tállai: Neurotic.]] Experience shows that Hungarians can count on the Hungarian government, at least the right, the government of Fidesz-KDNP, always and in all circumstances, even in the most difficult times. We took over a bankrupt country in 2010, when no one thought it would be possible to turn this into a success story in ten years. [[László Varju: It's not true!]] Now we've done it, we've done it, we're here, we're in the hardest time. And it has always been possible, from the time of the reduction of the rent, to include economic measures to protect Hungarian people's daily lives against bankers. And that is why I would like to strongly reject it: there was never a right-wing government, the Fidesz-KDNP government committed to bankers, because we introduced it, from the banker's point of view, those austerity measures could be classified towards them. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] that we didn't tax people with. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It was the banker's world that we put in place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-180	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Földi, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. What steps are the Hungarian authorities taking to protect our borders? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Németh, Minister of State, granted the right to reply to his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[László Földi: Yes.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus epidemic has brought Hungary to unprecedented challenges. All Hungarian citizens take their part in the defence in compliance with the rules, but we obviously need to highlight the health workers who do their work on the front line in the first row. At the same time, we should also point out that the Hungarian Defence Forces are also making a significant contribution to the fight against the epidemic. Soldiers are transmitting stability, security, order to society, supporting law enforcement. In addition to professional and contract soldiers, voluntary territorial reserve soldiers are also involved in a large number of defenses. The Hungarian Defence Office helps the police in public squares to monitor public order and public security and compliance with emergency rules and curfew, and also carries out its basic tasks, i.e. the performance and maintenance of border tasks. Dear Secretary of State, In 2015, we saw what it was like to have hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants crossing the green border. For this reason, the government has established a technical barrier at the southern border, which protects not only the safety of the Hungarian people but also the security of Europe as a whole. The left has been opposed to strengthening border protection all along, although this has been key, as almost 29 000 people have tried to enter the European Union illegally on this border during the course of last year as a whole. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I ask: what further steps will the Hungarian authorities take to protect our borders? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál applauds.]]
u2021-04-12-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Szilárd Németh, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Last week, I was on Prince's Sledge at the border defence base, and there I could see for myself that Hungarians, Hungary, can always count on the defence under all circumstances. Soldiers, along with the police, can I say that they are firmly guarding our borders, and we have created the conditions for this here in Parliament and in government meetings, which you referred to, both by building the fence and creating a technical and legal environment that will help the soldiers and police, the defence and the police to protect their borders and patrol as far as possible. This is also necessary at this time, because, together with the coronal virus, the Member mentioned, together with the risk of the coronal virus, the danger posed by illegal migration, which is the pressure of migrants on the southern Hungarian border. But you are not the only one, because here in Parliament, Mr Vice-President, when you spoke before the agenda, you somehow said that we need to talk about a Europe that is struggling with migration and the epidemic. Yes, not only the Hungarian border, not only the lives and health of the Hungarian people are protected by our soldiers and police officers, but the whole of Europe. Europe's current leaders, if you will, are the leaders of the European Union, and Brussels is thinking very differently about this whole issue. It is enough to think that, when it was clear that the pressure would be much higher in 2021, this was felt at the beginning of January, for example, when Frontex was withdrawn from Hungary, and since then they have not cooperated with the Hungarian border protection, they do not contribute to the task that the Hungarian government, Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police are doing as well as possible with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Földi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-185	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I've had the pleasure of going to the border where the fence was or is, or was, where it was built. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes, yes, yes or no!]] And I've seen what soldiers do, what they do, what they do to keep us safe from the border. I experience it many times in my constituency, people tell me how good it is that our border is so protected, how good it is that they are not in the country, there are no migrants in our region. Obviously, they happen along the border, unfortunately, but that's exactly why we need the soldiers and the police there, harder to stand up to in this case. At the same time, I must mention that it is a very good thing that they are in the hospital, for example. Yesterday I was at the hospital in Cegléd, and I observed that 21 soldiers worked at the hospital to the satisfaction of all of us. [[Zoltán Varga: He would be a doctor, not soldiers!]] I thank them for that. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Deputy Minister Szilárd Németh, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-04-12-187	We've heard the protests of the migrants, the anti-vaccinations, the left. They said years ago that all immigrants should be allowed in here. The conditions that you referred to are very appropriate in 2015 and now the numbers show that the pressure is increasing and that it can be repeated in 2015. Let's look at two numbers: 46 179 arrests took place in Hungary in 2020 at the southern border, 455 smugglers were caught. This number in the first quarter is now 25,963. It does not have to be very logical that if this goes on, or even, as the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, or the Secretary-General of the United Nations has confirmed from the reports sent to them, this number will increase by the end of this year, it could reach 100,000. So the technical, legal lockdown and the living-force protection that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Hungarian Defence Forces and the police will ensure that the future will continue to be more and more necessary. Thank you very much, Congressman, for your question. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-12-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, applied for a post-meeting speech from the LMP Group. With all due respect, I would like to ask you all to allow Mr. Group Leader to appear for the internal mediation chain. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-189	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, I am talking almost always about my narrower country, Baranya and the city of Pécs in my post-meeting speeches; this time I make an exception, and I will talk briefly about the neighbouring town, Szekszárd. [[15.00]] In fact, it has been mentioned several times in national policy that the situation, now in the serious epidemiological situation, has resulted in a special legal situation for municipalities as well. After all, we know that the mayors exercise the rights of the body of representatives, the assembly in one person. We have already discussed this nationwide on a number of abuses, and even last year, the government has made it clear that this extraordinary legal order, this mandate is basically available to mayors in connection with defence, it is justified to exercise this right in the case of defence decisions. Unfortunately, we can see that there are, by the way, typically pro-government, fidesz mayors who ignore this and, in fact, in this difficult epidemiological situation, abuse this situation and take decisions in a person that has no direct connection to the epidemiological situation. One example is the town of Szekszárd and Mayor Ács Rezső. I note only in parentheses, and we could also set a baranya example, since the mayor of Komló, József Polics, also regularly uses such tools. He does not have the majority of the general assembly there, and now, in this epidemiological situation, József Polics has also taken the decision many times. Let us return to Szekszárd and return to the case of Rezső Ács. We know that the majority of Szekszárd's citizens supported the Life Szekszárd Association program in the autumn of 2019, this association gained a majority in the city assembly, and in the autumn of 19 they started their work despite difficult circumstances, and started implementing the programme to which the citizens, local citizens, otherwise authorised them. Shortly thereafter, the situation, this tragic situation, has come to Hungary, and the extraordinary legal order has been established. Ács Rezső was at the forefront of taking advantage of this situation, abusing the situation of being able to exercise the rights of the general meeting alone as mayor, making a series of individual decisions and going against the program of the association authorized by the Szeksárdians. But the most striking case was that the budget that had already been prepared was, in effect, thrown away by itself, making a decision and pushing over the budget that he had thought up and calculated, as opposed to the budget that had already been prepared, which would have taken into account the tasks of defence in the same way as the very important aspects of urban development. So he practically overwritten the decision of the body elected by the majority and the committees, and voted alone in favour of the budget. Furthermore, once again, the mayor made use of the legal possibilities available to him on paper in the extraordinary legal order, changed the organizational and operational rules of the body of representatives and re-established the previously terminated mayor's cabinet, which he uses to basically place his friends in different positions. Not long ago, he made a decision to take up the issue of Szekszárd Sunday in order to inform the public according to his own needs. He also made such an outrageous decision in connection with this, that after a few months, he fired the editor-in-chief of the newspaper with a single decision. It is also typical of the mayor that he repeatedly blocks the implementation of decisions adopted earlier by the Assembly, which has been democratically elected. It is therefore clear that this legislation provides an opportunity for abuse. This is on the one hand the Parliament's responsibility to solve this problem, and on the other hand it is a political responsibility for Fidesz not to allow its mayors to abuse these legal loopholes in such a serious epidemiological situation. But speaking of Szekszárd, we have another case to discuss. It can be seen that one of the representatives of the Szekszárd Association elected by the majority of the Szekszárds, the representative of the Dialogue, Rita Zajak, left the faction for virtually specific reasons, and it can be said that this went against the will of the voters. It is also visible, and many have provoked a legitimate outrage that the mayor, the mayor of Fidesz, recently gave him a position of councilman. We are very confident that this is not a political calculation, a political game, that the mayor is trying to secure the majority himself, but, in any case, we call to the attention of all Members that he must take account not of his individual interests, but of the interests of the community. We are very confident that if Congresswoman Rita Zajak can no longer represent the programme by which she was given a list of seats [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then draw the right conclusions, and otherwise implement the program on which he was authorized by the electorate, and he will continue to work honorably with the Long Live Szekszárd Association. We very much hope that this will be the case in the next period. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2021-04-12-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Group Leader, I have not interrupted you, but you have given our city, Pécs, an address for your current speech. Thank you very much. Mr Péter Ovádi from the Fidesz Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-191	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to present the continuous construction and development of Veszprém's constituency number one. It is a great help in this development that the government provides development packages that provide real answers to real needs. For example, the program of modern cities, in which the new sports swimming pool will soon be completed in Veszprém, but the gymnast practitioner will be built, the Antal Csermák Music School will be renewed, and last week we laid the foundation stone for the nationally unique Szakipark Veszprémi Iparos Park. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The Szakipark investment is a unique merger that takes place with the cooperation of Veszprém Municipality, Veszprém Vocational Training Center, VSZ Zrt., Pannon University and local entrepreneurs. The investment by reviving Veszprém's centuries-old industrial traditions, the XXI. In response to the expectations of the 20th century, it intends to operate a sectoral training centre for the labour force adapted to real market needs, which constitutes a living bridge between businesses and learners. It is also important to remember the Hungarian village programme, as the tender facility that has been running since 2019 has given small settlements a chance to develop to an unprecedented extent, to create a modern area that is becoming more attractive to young people. In my constituency there have already been more than a hundred successful tenders. All 24 settlements, including Bakonynána, Bánd, Czech Republic, Chetény, Dudar, Epleny, Hajmáskér, Hárskút, Herend, Jásd, Királyszentistván, Kislőd, Lokút, Márkó, Nemesvámos, Italian village, Öskü, Sóly, Szápar, Szentgal, Tés, Úrkút, Vilonya have at least one successful tender. Among others, roads, kindergartens, medical clinics, community squares, ecclesiastical institutions, and local civil society associations have been renovated and the program provides a source of local identity. If we look at only the last week, we can see that we have been able to try new public land maintenance tools in Bakonyna and Hárskút, but Herenden has also completed the renewed fence of the cemetery owned by the municipality. I am very proud, as there are several settlements in my constituency where they have successfully applied for several sources of tender: Italian village, Dudar or even Úrkút, for example, has successfully participated in the application of the Ministry of the Interior, the Hungarian village, and the operational programme for area and settlement development. Children have the future, which is why we also place special emphasis on the renewal of nursery schools, kindergartens and schools. In Veszprém these institutions, external and internal renovations, energy improvements are being made, but small settlements are also becoming more attractive to young people, and there is not a settlement where the increase in the number of children made it necessary to expand the institutions. The Hungarian villager, programmer, the Ministry of Interior and TOP sources also arrive in the constituency, as the primary school of German Nationalities in Bakonyna will soon be enriched with a long-awaited gym, which will be implemented with the intervention of the Hungarian Government, Miklós Soltész State Secretary for Church and Ethnic Relations, and my fellow Member of Parliament Ritter Imre. The area has a special role in the development of cycling paths, the proximity of Bakony and Lake Balaton makes the area a popular tourist centre, and both attractions from Veszprém are conveniently and safely accessible by bicycle. The route of different directions is constantly expanded. In addition to the huge investment of the southern bypass in Veszprém, the roads of small settlements are constantly renewed, the access road is slowly being completed in Tés, but the works are also taking place in Italy, for example, as well as between Csetény and Dudar. Appropriate infrastructure ensures easier and safer access to kindergartens, schools or jobs. There have been only a few examples of the above without the need for completeness, and it is clear that despite the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, developments in Veszprém and its region are still taking place at a good pace. Thank you, active mayors, for taking to heart the fate of your settlement. Last but not least, I thank the Government of Hungary for giving us the opportunity to make every settlement in the constituency more livable for its own needs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2021-04-12-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome once again my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's 7:00. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, Félix Farkas spoke on the occasion of the World Roma Culture Day. He praised the Gypsy national musicians, artists, writers, poets and everyone who is actively involved in the care of Gypsy culture, and said to me the very serious sentence that Hungary protects nationalities, but it is not easy to be a Gypsy. This sentence is also supported by a statement from the National Roma Municipality the other day, in which they said that they encounter very serious problems in the vaccination against the coronal virus epidemic, since there are not even minimum conditions for registration in Roma settlements for coronal virus vaccination. Therefore, we need a personal presence and we need to help our fellow Roma citizens register for vaccination, because there is a very serious problem. At the first wave, I myself have experienced that in Roma settlements we cannot talk about hygiene conditions, but they do not even have a bathroom, and in many cases they do not even have a fixed water network. There were no masks, and let's not talk about it when digital education entered the system, then what serious problems there were in the Roma settlements. I also brought cleaning and masks to my fellow gypsy countrymen, but this is just a drop in the sea, it would require much more serious help. We have asked the government more than once to ensure that local Roma national authorities there, in the municipalities, can redeploy operational budgets and allow them to use it in vain for the control of the coronal virus epidemic. You have done nothing, and the third wave has reached Roma segregations to such an extent that we have had to say goodbye to entire families, precisely because they have not received the assistance they would otherwise need. You said all life matters. You said that if you don't find a job for three months, you'll be able to help if no one else does. I'll inform you that there isn't. I'm talking to local governments, mayors, and there's no community service, and they can't employ families who would have lived off the hook, and they would have tried to survive the coronal virus epidemic. But you don't do anything. Here we are, the third wave is destroying entire families. Why didn't you perform? Why didn't they give us any real help? These are the serious issues that I would have expected Mr Félix Farkas to speak here in the Hungarian Parliament, because the world day of Roma culture is important, but these questions are even more important. I was disappointed, and not only by me, but also by those who put Mr. Spokesman here in the Hungarian Parliament. I hope that in the next period, you, the government, will also do so for our fellow Roma citizens, and indeed it will be: all life matters. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda speech:. I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The motto or title of my speech after the agenda has also been stated by the President that I am not looking for those responsible, but for solutions. I have dealt with the issue of local government in a number of post-scheduled speeches and on a number of other issues, and I would like to emphasise this in this speech, because the occupation with local governments in itself means that we are dealing with all people, all residents and all voters, because they are the ones who, being the closest to the people, can represent their interests. In my speech, I would like to focus on water utility charges and water utility services and to highlight how this is done, so much so that details of water utility charges should be regulated by the government in a regulation, which has not been affected since 2015. On this issue, I have received a request from a number of municipalities in order to remedy the current system, the current situation, in some way, because it is not sustainable in terms of the current position. I came up with a proposal for a decision, which was discussed by the Economic Committee on 16 November last year. Needless to say, the Economic Committee rejected my proposal for a decision, but it was rejected on the grounds that, although they agree with its content, this only concerns part of the issue, a segment of it, and they would like to address this issue fully and globally. I'll tell you honestly, I've been waiting for this justification, and, by the way, I've been waiting for this day, almost six months for every single Hungarian government to make a difference, unfortunately there hasn't been any meaningful action. But what is it about? The usage charges are those which the municipalities receive, and therefore water utility services and systems should be maintained. Unfortunately, there are a number of problems in this area, and the most pressing problem is that a specific percentage can be used to renovate and maintain the water or sewage system. The percentage is more prominent in the direction of the sewage network, although it is the sewage network that was later built and built with modern technology, unlike water, where very serious system renovations should be carried out, for example, if I mention only that the exchange of asbestos networks laid down several decades ago would be justified, in a subtle way, but they cannot do so under this regulation. My proposal was that this kind of funding should not take place in a fixed proportion, but that the decision maker should be able to decide, at the discretion of the local government, of course, with the approval of the experts of the water utility service providers on the proportion of the system to be used. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but it is a very serious problem, and once again, it is not one, not two, it is not a opposition, it is not a pro-government, but it is an urgent solution for all the municipalities, because, in addition to what I started, it concerns not only all the municipalities, but unfortunately all the residents through all the municipalities as well. But why is there a need for system renovation anyway? Some experts, who have been saying for years and even decades, estimate that some experts estimate that it would require a sum of HUF 1000 and HUF 3000 billion in the opinion of other experts in order to restore the current end-of-life and outdated water utility service system. This should be a priority, because what is still evident to us is that we open the tap and water flows, and we would like it to function as a basic service for our children. A few weeks ago, we discussed the seven-year financial cycle of the European Union ahead. Well, here is the opportunity, in order to integrate it into this EU financial cycle, it is now possible to renew this system in order to make this basic service available to everyone in the decades ahead, for centuries. If we redefine this now, we will take a big step forward for the future, if we postpone this now, and we may be able to miss it, and I can also say that we may be permanently behind. And once again, allow me to mention that if everyone wants to be fundamental and accessible to the future generation, our children, the service, the water supply that is essential to us, then this step must be treated as a priority, the government must give priority to it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the DK Group, applied for a post- Agenda address:. Why is it important to speed up and extend the Panel programme? It's an address. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2021-04-12-197	Thank you very much. Dear House, The districts of Budapest include Kispest and Kőbánya among the great losers of the last ten years' government. This is not only because the hospitals and schools of the municipalities have been taken away, most of their resources, a significant part of their powers have been taken away, or significantly reduced, the opportunity to help the people living there, but also because the programme that has helped a great many people in these districts, in this part of the city, has ceased to exist before 2010, and this is the panel program. The programme, which started in 2001, and then received a new impetus in 2008, was the opportunity for many residential buildings to refurbish, insulate and add energy, while making these residential buildings more pleasant and more livable. Unfortunately, this programme was stopped in 2011, followed by great indignation, and then, in general, a re-launch is announced before the elections, but nothing really happens. In the 2014-2020 EU cycle, only a minimum amount was added, while to date only one third of the residential buildings of this type, actually built not only by panel but also by house-works technology, have been completed, and only half of these buildings have been fully modernised, which would be necessary. Why is it important and why is it important to speed up and extend the panel programme? Because in these cases there is a very significant, serious savings for residents. This means that a large part of the house's energy cost can be saved by the people living here, and this is a very serious issue for people living in often difficult financial conditions, working people and pensioners who typically live in panel apartments, in these building houses. It's the real reduction in the rent, not the magic in the account. But I would add that this is not only important for preventing poverty, it is important not only that people do not lose their homes because of their debts, but also from an environmental point of view. The greenest energy we save is what we don't have to produce. This has the least harmful effect. It is therefore quite clear that good thermal insulation is extremely important in the fight against climate change, but I would add that increasing numbers of hot summers are also helping the people living there. Do not forget that a significant part of this type of renovation can only be arranged technically and economically efficiently by facade insulation, replacement of elevators and upgrading of heating systems throughout the house. This means that the otherwise positive forms of support available to renovate homes are not suitable for solving this problem. Therefore, the subsidies now available do not really help this process, but it is a special program specifically designed to renovate apartments in condos built with this type of house factory technology. Why am I talking about extension? Because such a program would be needed not only in the panel buildings, but also in the case of large apartments over 100 years old, which are now gradually over 100 years old, this option would also be needed. Although the problems of these houses are different, in many respects, they were built with better energy technology until the end of the 1800s, in the early 1900s, but, of course, in terms of windows, mechanical systems and everything else, these houses are obsolete. This is why we are calling for this programme, and the reason why this is a particularly positive period is that, on the one hand, the new EU planning period begins in 2021. There is now a way to pool funds for this purpose, and, moreover, as a result of a Hungarian endeavour that started before 2010, the renovation of residential buildings in the European Union has become a priority, and the European Commission has also made such a proposal public. So I propose that we take this forward among the EU programmes, and with my fellow Members from the Democratic Coalition, we will present a joint proposal for a resolution so that we can discuss this matter here in the House and express our support for this programme. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2021-04-12-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group, spoke on the issue of the problems of our settlements. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, After the agenda, in the coming weeks, I would like to talk about the problems of settlements in my constituency, but there will also be problems that affect not only settlements in my constituency, but also settlements in other parts of the country. For example, parking is a problem that shows that free parking is not a good solution in all cases. There are settlements, and they are mainly small settlements in the country, where they have not set up paid parking lots for local people or for the purpose of going to work, but for tourism; and these small settlements, for them, have been a significant source of income, since they usually do not reach just a few ten million forints in good times their annual budgets. There's a huge part of this that's missing from the fact that these parking funds are actually out. I also asked the competent ministry a written question in this regard, but if I remember correctly, Balázs Orbán was the responder, and he did not actually answer that question. Otherwise, I would appreciate it if the government would review the possibility of this type of parking, because it would really help a number of small settlements who, by the way, make a living in Hungary or use it to save their income. There are two settlements in my constituency, Pilismaros and Piliszentlek, not so far apart. Both settlements have been in the press a lot in the last few days or weeks, unfortunately not always with a positive response. In the case of a pilis grinder, we've been hearing about a planned mine opening for months, and that's where the mood is. There has been a lot of controversial news about this, and the locals still don't know exactly whether they're making a mine or not, what the outcome will be. I think that, if the pro-government representatives could have supported my proposal, which I have already submitted for the second time, that, under certain circumstances, mine opening should only take place by means of a local referendum, then it would be possible, by way of appropriate information, to make a decision appropriate to the locals. The other case of Pilistorti is a tree cut. Obviously, this is a municipal authority, but I would like to bring this subject in here because I think that perhaps we should start thinking ahead in this area, because there will probably be a similar case elsewhere in the future. Trees that the local government called dangerous or surveyed were cut down on the Danube coast, but in recent years the former body could have taken care of or thought about replacing these trees in time. Another question is that obviously a small settlement does not always have the right source for this. However, we have heard on several occasions from the government that foresting is being given a great deal of attention. I would like you to reflect on the possibility of helping local governments in these situations, and at the next budget, I would like to open a separate chapter on how these trees can be replaced in advance. And then road number 11, which also goes through Pilismóró; but Pilismárt and Dömös are the two settlements in my constituency, where this road is in extremely bad condition. I would be very happy if the next budget could provide funds for this journey, as not only do many people drive by, but also many tourists ride their bikes, and that is why this road is dangerous. Piliss's spirit. We all know that in recent years a rather popular series has been launched, and it has started an avalanche, and this part of the settlement has gained such popularity as this part of Esztergom, which the settlement itself simply cannot bear. [[15.30]] So in many cases, for example, this Easter, a tourist flood covered the part of the settlement that, for example, the ambulance would not have been able to go up certain streets if it had been necessary. Luckily, that didn't happen, and it would be nice if it didn't. I think that obviously the local government will also try to do everything, but it would be good if the state could think ahead on these issues and give the municipalities a helping hand. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-12-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-201	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Last week, I told you that mass vaccination is organised in Newpesten under the direction and complexity of the clinic. It can now be said that over the past period, a total of 3207 district residents have been vaccinated at the five injection points of the Újpest specialization center, with which we have taken a great step to ensure the safety of our district. Since then, the work has been done at seven fireplaces. I am pleased to say that the process has not stopped, as the administration of coronal virus vaccines will continue between 11 and 14 April. According to Mayor Tibor Déri's information, more than 700 residents over the age of 60 will be vaccinated with Pfizer vaccine and 300 additional vaccines will be available. As in the previous weekend, the vaccination takes place fine, disciplined and professionally, so I would like to take this opportunity once again to highlight and thank all the staff of the specialist clinic, the local government workers who help them and through them all the health workers in the country, all the work they do for us. In addition to thanks, we can help the most by following the restrictions, taking care of masks, distance control, disinfection. But the government could also be of great help, especially if it stopped registration, and all residents with Újpest's address could receive vaccination in addition to the presentation of the driver's card. Why do we need to build a separate database outside the health system, we don't understand that. So that's what we expect from the government. Of course, you here claim that we are anti-vaccinations, as you have done today, but you do not believe that, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Yes!]] We are not an anti-vaccination community against any other celebrity, but a pro-vaccination community; only the lying claims of the pro-state Fidesz are trying to make it look different than my fellow Member is trying to do now. Vaccination is a means of overcoming the fall of the epidemic and the economy, so I ask all Hungarian citizens and all Hungarian citizens to take advantage of the possibility of voluntary vaccination. I would also like to point out that, despite the withdrawal of government funds in Újpesten, the city administration is preparing beyond the epidemiological measures with a spring surprise, with a positive surprise. I would like to bring you two events here, with the completion of the renovation of the Peace Square in Újpesten, where the renewed playground provides safe recreation for both children and parents; flowers and trees await the inhabitants of the area, and I invite you to visit and visit from further away. Another problem to be solved for years was the traffic order of Attila Street. The situation seems to be in order, because at the request of the people living here, the street traffic will be one-way, thus eliminating the inconveniences after the renovation. During the epidemic, of course, the primary aim of the city's management is to preserve and create the safety of the Újpestians, but despite the government's withdrawal, with scarce resources, we will certainly manage our new greener, more beautiful areas, which will benefit all the public. Come with us, and we'll come up with a new future together. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-12-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-203	Mr President, Dear House, While the countries of Europe are competing with each other in order to help their citizens and their small entrepreneurs better, in Hungary, if one had a simple bank loan, I would not be in his position right now, as we are witnessing an incredibly alarming situation. Today, a fidesz leading politician asked himself that I accused them of a kind of pact with the banks, and how bad it was for his soul. The fact is that this pact, which was signed in February 2015, is still on the government's website, can be found in English, and then, when the Government of Hungary breaks it up, it can protest that we have questioned its sovereignty, but until then, unfortunately, we cannot accept its sovereign decisions and treat them as completely independent. It began with the fact that the commercial banks passed on to their customers the special banking tax introduced by Fidesz and not by Fidesz, and the Government of Hungary did nothing. It continued with the fact that the FTT, which was called a levy so as not to have to box so much with Brussels for it, was a lot of more than 200 billion, also admitted to be passed on to customers by the banks concerned. They even wrote a letter to the small businessman that we are now collecting this amount from you for months because the government introduced the transaction fee, and the Government of Hungary did nothing. This is where Europe's most expensive banking system is operated in the event of a small income. So in the case of low-income earners, there is a lot more to pay to a banking client than in Britain, where for smaller earners, if not something called a social bank account, but a preferential option is available in terms of basic functions. So, at least in exchange for the pampering, they would have asked that the banking system be not the most expensive in the case of small earners. Fourthly, they contributed to the looting of foreign exchange loans, because instead of choosing a sane solution, and who took credit at 165 forints would have been forinted at 165 forints, compared to this, you dumped the market rate HUF 256 forints on them. The difference is almost 100 forints for an average borrowing. This illegally taken item was credited to the account of those who took it from the Hungarian citizens. And, well, we also see that evictions have been mentioned today, over 18,000 have been conducted in Hungary since you were on the government. And in the days, the mood is that the real price of the credit moratorium is now being revealed. Let's just say that the credit moratorium is a good tool, suggested by the Jobbikos, and in fact all opposition parties agreed that this is a good solution, if it does not have financial garbage, a small-letter section, and there is no kindergarten in the banking system that allows, where appropriate, a 10-month non-payment moratorium not to increase the duration of the loan by 10 months, but by 13-14, but by 25 months. We also see that after a year in a moratorium, it is not just as much to be repaid as it is now not paid out under the moratorium by the client, but, where appropriate, by 1.5 million more in the case of an average amount of credit. And we can also see that some of the people who had their house savings contract expired, tried to pay back a seven-digit sum for early repayment, and basically took half of it away, swallowed it at the bank's interest rate. I don't want to blame the banks for all this, because we don't expect the wolf to become a vegetarian, they work in a medium that the Government of Hungary is working out and allowing them. Therefore, I hold Hungary's Government responsible for the fact that, in the case of a 4.5 percent average interest rate, if a person takes 15 months from the moratorium, the duration of his contract may extend by up to 26 months. This also means 11 months of extra cancellation in addition to replacing the period left behind by the moratorium. There is therefore an amazing price increase, and the long-term impact on the lives of families is what we are talking about. In our theoretical example, what Hungary's Government has left in this package is a surplus of approximately 800,000 forints in terms of total repayment. Our demand, therefore, is that freezing really means freezing, without mines, without financial traps, and that these abstract amounts be returned to all Hungarian customers in the form of compensation. That's the best we can do. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[15.40]]
u2021-04-12-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Sándor Bodó, Fidesz Group, applied for a post- Agenda address with the title Hajdúszoboszlón. You have the floor, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-12-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, there are historic developments in Hajdúszoboszló, but we also need to see the environment. The environment is quite clear, since the development has been significant and tangible since the change of government in 2010 from the entire county of Hajdú-Bihar, including the area of Hajdúszoboszló. Labour market trends have improved, employment indicators and employment have increased and unemployment has fallen substantially. Of course, I can prove this with specific numbers, as the number of people employed increased from 186 thousand to 242 thousand between 2010-2020, while the number of unemployed has decreased from 28 thousand to 13 thousand in the last ten years. The unemployment rate also speaks for itself in a percentage, falling from 13.5 percent to 5.2 percent. As an unanticipated, rude guest, the crown virus obviously kicked the door in the tourism sector, and I can tell you that during the first period, a huge shock occurred a year ago. There were indicators of the decline in all counties, in Hajdú-Bihar County, obviously. But it also appeared that the epidemic treatment has brought some improvement in recent months. In Hajdú-Bihar county, the number of registered job seekers in Hajdú-Bihar county decreased by 20 percent, 11 percent in Hajdúszoboszló district and 15 percent in the city itself. The successes clearly required economic protection measures, wage subsidies, development investments, and it is also clear that tourism, catering and the service sector are the sectors most affected. In this area, I can provide information about the application for aid for nearly 1200 employees of 135 companies in the region, which can be estimated at HUF 500 million, such aid has been received in this difficult situation. Of course, everyone is also thinking about how and how the reboot will be, because the days of crisis management, we hope, will soon pass, we will be beyond the most difficult period, so we must think of the improvements and investments that will even boost this sector's wheels in the pothole. There have been a number of small developments in recent years, but it must be said that, under the Kisfaludy programme, for example, many local entrepreneurs in tourism have had the opportunity to renew the facility in which they will be able to welcome guests in the coming months. In Hajdúszoboszló, the complex tourism development of the very expected spa will also begin, which will obviously mean the image of a city. However, the most significant development is not this, although this is undoubtedly very important, but it is an event centre, which is obviously based on government support and over HUF 8 billion in use, which has so far been very lacking, and we hope to have a house for a new basis of hospitality and tourism. Obviously, we can not only talk about an event centre, but also about a house of tourism, culture, conference tourism that provides an environment of such magnitude, scale, that attracts not only from within the border, but also from across the border all those who can, can and want to organise an event, treatise, fair, demonstration, whatever it is in these sectors or in any other sector. It can accommodate more than 2,000 people, which seems to be very significant. Obviously, alternative energy sources, intelligent house management, are enriched with the most modern elements, so we are trying to make it work as cheaply as possible, and this is clearly the goal of creating a number of jobs. The name Hajdúszoboszló in tourism is a concept, I can say, so perhaps, as they say, good wine does not need a company, but it is essential that there is always a new element, a new investment that motivates them even more to return if they have been in this area before. In conclusion, the importance of this development group is, in fact, always need to invest in tourism, always need to develop, always need new experiences and new elements, as they move the sector forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2021-04-12-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, has also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. The majors will live again! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The old desire and old dream of the people of Somogy, Balaton and Sobod can come true, because a few weeks ago the work began in the area of the Szánodpuszta majors, the first stage of the renovation of the tourist complex started. It's a big deal for us living there, because Szántodpuszta's name is a concept. I remember well when decades ago, this country was in its prime. When I was a child, it was considered a tourist destination with a high reputation, and it was a storehouse of many experiences and attractions, which has now been worn out. On behalf of many, I can say that we want Szántodpuszta once again to have his former light, mood, and reputation back. Accordingly, a few years ago, I promised to renovate Szántódpuszta. Well, I'm happy to report that all the signs indicate that we've succeeded. The project that has just been launched is the first and very important step towards achieving this goal. The official name of Szántodpuszta is the Tourist and Cultural Centre, but it is also brave to call the old Hungarian wilderness a kind of inexhaustible monument. A major estate that is the XVIII-XIX. The last tangible memory of a century-old estate farming in our country. One of the prides of the southern shore of Lake Balaton, whose condition has deteriorated rapidly in recent decades, and unfortunately showed signs of orphanage. And this process had to stop, because we are at the last minute. At last, however, the ideas outlined are a promising future. The State-owned Helikon Nonprofit Kft. The development of dpuszta buildings and the creation of the visitors' centre was awarded a total non-refundable grant of HUF 1.5 billion. The main aim of the development of Szántodpuszta is to protect this unique cultural heritage in the long term and to develop new, complex and innovative attractions. At the first stage, a large part of the buildings are renewed, as well as a museum, exhibition space and an adventure park. The development can provide adequate infrastructure for smaller festivals, thematic events, horse and tradition programs. As a real community space, it will provide the opportunity to spend leisure time useful and culturally for student groups, friends' associations, or even hiking families. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these beautiful buildings, or even the presentation of rural livestock, horse tradition and old crafts, and the future marketplace will provide an excellent opportunity to sell local farmers and craftsmen's merchandise or even to taste food from local raw materials. I also consider it a significant achievement that, listening to my request, the government provided an additional HUF 290 million of domestic resources for the investment. Thanks to the additional support, the state will buy back the Adam Cellar previously sold by left-wing governments, as well as the renovation of the roofs of the godstand and the servants' houses. The majors will finally live again. The total value of the aid won is about HUF 1.8 billion, but the real value does not appear in terms of sum, but rather in terms of the value saved and irreplaceable. The tourist complex is currently located in Keszthely-based Helikon Nonprofit Kft. The company's primary task is to manage, preserve and preserve the estate of Festetics in Keszthely. Maybe that's why, and because of the geographical distance, Szántdpuszta was less fitable. its operational profile. We have already discussed this with Managing Director several times. We also agree with the mayor of Szántód, that all the people of Szántód, and all the people of Balaton and Somogy, as well as the guests who come to us, are, in fact, important: to be the manager of Szántodpuszta who keeps it in order, fills it with life, and runs it with high-quality programs in the future. [[15.50]] Several alternatives have also been identified in previous years. The intention, I can say, was everywhere, but financial, technical or legal obstacles made the solution difficult. Thus, the most functional solution is currently the management of church property, with this step Szántodpuszta could actually be returned to where he originally belonged, as already in 1055 the area is mentioned as a church estate in the founding letter of the Tihany Abbey. In the future, therefore, the most important task will be to select the appropriate trustee in addition to continuing the development. I would like to thank the government for supporting the start of the project, thank Helikon Nonprofit Kft. for making use of the opportunity to apply, and, finally, but most importantly, I would like to thank the people of Szándód, Balaton and Somogyi for their patience and supporting partnership. I am sure that the development will be worthy of the historical history of the majority and will make a significant contribution to the further expansion of the tourist services of the Balaton and Somogy region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Hoppál, Member of the Fidesz Group, has also applied for an after-the-date speech: they are developing the settlements in Baranya from billions. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-12-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Allow me to put it a little more modestly than some of our opposition-listed fellow Members who regularly discuss the first-person possession of a number in my constituency there, while the voters did not elect him as their local representative; I consider it an honor to be elected as their representative in the fourth term by the inhabitants of the 18 settlements in the area of Pécs and Pécs. I would like to report that, in addition to the developments already presented in Pécs, smaller settlements in Baranya County can develop in the last hundred years as a miracle and in what specific projects they can be implemented. Dear Parliament, In March 2021, Hungary's Government, through the Ministry of Interior, gave special support to the municipality of Cserkút, who had not been able to solve a 30-year-old problem so far, they can now solve the closed drainage of the Cherkút industrial park, the Cserkút platoon with 173 million HUF government support in the settlement, so the protection of the nearby drinking water base will also be possible. The local government of Orfű received a Christmas present from the government, as it came to the end of a question which had also been discussed since the 1960s. The government is 814 million forints, you heard well, a small village in Baranya, has received 814 million forints of government support for its dried-up drinking water well... Three wells have dried up in the last decade and a half, and the drinking water supply in this village has become almost impossible in the summer, and there are a lot of people moving in, and this village has become a festival settlement, and with this large amount the establishment of a new drinking water well and the renewal of the entire drinking water network will now be possible. The people in the area and the Orfians are very happy with this great government help. Another settlement in which Hungarian national support has still been received, not by the European Union, and this helps a lot with the local infrastructure, the municipality of any village. Here the Hungarian majority and the Croatian minority together create a cultural centre, and through the Ministry of Human Resources, the government provided 80 million HUF support. The village also started building a nursery, and they also won an additional HUF 170 million TOP grant, so here in this settlement there is a HUF 250 million development. In the village of Nagykoszár, the village received government support from 20 million forints Kossuth Lajos Street, and the renovation of the kindergarten was completed with HUF 17.5 and the second 33 million forints. Overall, the municipality of Nagykozár can implement a HUF 124 million project. In order to present the major developments of the other villages without the need for completeness, I have to say that the municipality of Manfa won HUF 45 million in a previous tender for the treatment of the sewage and flood problems of the Baranya Canal, but since the construction represents a multiple of this, this tender was returned, and with a second investment request they won HUF 100 million as a TOP supplement with the approval of the government, and so this investment can be made. But I could mention the municipality of the municipality of Bogád, where there is also a very significant 47 million-dollar development, or Berkesdet, where the 50 million-forints Hungarian village is implemented in four projects, Magyarsarlós has 52 million forints of indoor water planning, and Lothárd has another 50 million investments in sewage. So I can say that the villages of our constituency are developing and renewed to the extent that the people of the country have not seen since the change of regime. On the other hand, 115 million people are investing in sewage, in Romony 61 million people, in Kővápőszőlős 50 million people, in Szilágy 20 million people, and in Hásságy with the unique support of the Ministry of Interior, 10 million HUF and 19 million forints were refurbished. Every village in Baranya is renewed, neither grandparents nor parents nor children remember such development in their lives. I hope that we can continue this in the future. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-12-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Kálló, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna nuance the picture a little bit. I have often spoken about the government cuts that have occurred in the past year, the withdrawal of local governments. I'm trying to get numbers to better understand what everyday problems these withdrawals are. Now, one of the smallest, not the smallest, but one of the smallest items I'm going to take into consideration in my constituency, and this is the total withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax. In the case of Ercsi it means minus HUF 25 million, in the case of Kulcs it means HUF 11 million 200 thousand, in the case of Adony it means HUF 10 million, in the case of Pusztaszabolcs it means HUF 13 million, in the case of Nagyvenyim it means HUF 16 million, in the case of Iváncs it means HUF 8 million, in the case of Perkáta it means HUF 7 million, in the case of Rácalmás it means HUF 10 million, and in the case of the largest settlement, in the case of Dunaújváros it means HUF 123 million, the withdrawal of the vehicle tax alone. But to better understand the example, I asked for bids. What is needed for a settlement all the time? The benches and the trash cans. So I asked for a quote from a company about benches and bins, and I chose the two most expensive, so the most expensive bench with the most expensive trash can and their installation. I will give these applications to any of my Fidesz fellow Members of Parliament to see how much it costs. Now it would have been possible to build 40 installed benches in Adony with everything from these car tax deductions, Nagyvenyimen 64 such benches could have been installed with this money, and 53 fully modern trash cans could have been installed in Iváncsán, which could have been used to clean the dog dung, and 60 such trash cans could have been installed in Rácalmás. But now let's jump to Dunaújváros. I set a different example from Dunaújváros. The 123 million HUF in Dunaújváros, do you know what it means? We could've made 2782 square meters of potholes out of the car tax money alone. These numbers! I know something's going on, but these are rough numbers, and I was just talking about the car tax, I repeat myself. Then, in December, there was good news, and yet the municipalities get some back. The Prime Minister named 17 county-owned cities in a decree to receive money, 13 of them unfortunately, and 13 settlements with Fidesz leadership, they received a total of HUF 21,8 billion, which could be used freely, but with four opposition-led cities. The four opposition-led cities received 1.9 billion forints as compensation, but they are not free to use this money. [[16.00]] So it's not like they're spending it on what they want, no, the government told them only what to spend it on. So there are huge differences here. We see that the Fidesz settlements, yes, are compensated by the government, they receive a tender, they win a tender, they get the money back quickly, but somehow they forget the opposition leaders. Ladies and Gentlemen, I know it's not appropriate to ask for cognac on a plane crashing, and I know that when there's a crisis, you have to make money, and I think you'd accept that. However, when we see that our revenues are being lost by halving the business tax, Dunaújváros lost 650 million forints, so when we see that you are taking away our incomes and spending on such things as hunting exhibitions, stadium renovations, stadium construction, that is, don't be angry, the knife opens a little bit in our pocket. We're gonna have a tiny little knife in our pocket. I know you've been sitting down, negotiating with the city leaders. In the beginning, they promised full compensation, and now it turns out that there will be no full compensation, because there will be nothing to compensate for, because half of the business tax that has been taken is left in the settlements, for example, with entrepreneurs, yes, who can either close or open, they do not know yet, they are fighting for their lives, so obviously they will not be able to reverse these money as much as they write on paper. So what I'm asking you to do is to be a little more modest, get a little thicker when it comes to towns with county rights, small settlements. There are settlements whose only income came from the income of the car tax, and you took it away, not for a year, but for two years. They will also compensate the settlements as soon as possible and completely! Finally, I believe that the iron works must be saved. I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-12-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group has applied for a post- Agenda speech: . When will there be order in the Selypi Basin? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-12-213	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! It's a very sad thing to say that I've asked for an opportunity to talk about this problem here, in front of the National Assembly. I've been dealing with the so-called Eternite Factory for nearly a decade and the situation after its closure, I've interpelled, I've dealt with written questions, I've made reports, I can list them. Why is this date, by the way? Because about seven years ago, eight individuals filed lawsuits in order to get to their point. They were plaintiffs in court today, no one of them lives. There are also young men under the age of 40. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Over the years, I have studied the documents at my disposal several times, and even as a layman, I have been able to conclude that there have been very serious hiatuses here, very many have not done the tasks entrusted to them, yet they are not responsible for this story and this thing. The results of the measurements have shown for years that at several points in the technical line there are different degrees and different forms, but they have always been exposed to asbestos into the environment. There are about 2,000 houses in the vicinity of the plant, you can imagine how many thousands of people are affected by this problem. The expert opinions also stated that the technology line was in a closed system here, the following is written by the expert office, which carried out this measurement:. The fact that some of the elements of the technology are covered or that a local dust extraction is used is not considered closed, unless the condition that the material is not released into the air to any extent is fulfilled. The most significant environmental burden was the working of the pipes, which was continuous during the operating hours. In the environment of the raw material storage and the waste storage, the dust deposited in the yard was picked up by wind during windy weather and brought out into the living environment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My fellow Members, I have been out in the area of this factory, and anyone can visit it, it's on the 30th of the dogs. The state gave more than 1.3 billion forints to do a recultivation there, 1.3 billion forints was not enough to destroy the debris and the prison in its entirety, to transport it and to carry out the soil exchange. There in the neighborhood, they call this area Little Chernobil, and it looks like they cut everything in the waist. To this day, the remains of oil puddles, office linoleums, settling pools, and as if an atom had struck, let's say, an office building, because there's no windows, no windows, no doors, maybe I don't have a floor, but the vase is still standing. Ged dogs, dead pheasants and various rodents. That's what you're betting on to this day. Look, a few years ago, I placed three different coins in three different places, looking back year after year, because I almost knew I'd bet my neck on capital that nothing would ever happen here. This money's been applauded, and the job isn't done. And cynically, my report hasn't even started an investigation. Dear fellow Members, Asbestos causes asbestososis, and these little microspecks sit in the deep layers of the lungs, and they can never leave, cause pleural tumors. Most people have died who have never worked in this factory in their lives, just lived in the neighborhood. Health statistics clearly show that the number of cancers is high. Look, when this 25,000 tons of waste was removed, someone should have checked that everything happened as ordered by the state or government. Documents are available now. 270 boxes of documents in the plaintiff's representative [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the lawyer's. Think about it. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-04-12-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, MEP Anett Bősz, DK Group,. The government's withdrawal from local authorities ultimately undermines the quality of life of citizens. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, I have highlighted a number of challenges and some local successes affecting the agglomeration and, in a narrower sense, the Medal and the region. However, I have not yet talked about the government's withdrawal of local governments, on which the government follows a short-term and narrow-minded strategy to destroy this society. Even though Fidesz thinks that he has spotted the opposition settlement leaders, because without resources, they will hardly be able to show any results, so in 2022 they expect that the dissatisfaction with opposition settlement leaders will show up in the election results. However, I believe that this does not destroy the leaders of opposition settlements or even us, fellow Members, but in the long term it does destroy the quality of life of citizens. When you take that money away from individual settlements, let's say it interferes with the construction of the sidewalk or the development of the road network, which is also a major problem in the agglomeration in almost all settlements. Everyone misses the sidewalk, but especially those who need some kind of aid for transport. And do not think that I am thinking only of the limited in their movements, honourable Members, I am thinking of the mothers who are pushing the stroller, or of the young mothers and fathers who, with small children, are going for a walk on the banks of the Danube, for example, by a small bike. However, I also think of those who have limited relatives in their family. I am thinking of those who raise damaged children and, where appropriate, push adolescents in wheelchairs to give their children community experiences, children whose education and, by the way, their daily lives are extremely difficult, quite simply because the central care system is extremely underfunded, poorly organised, and therefore, in many ways, from the education system or social care system, these children who, in the particular case of multiple injuries, but also those who, let us say, are slightly damaged and, for example, can be educated in an integrated way, but the public education system closes their doors to them. [[16.10]] Erden, ladies and gentlemen, two-thirds of the city's internal road network means a great deal, but it is quite different from the national one, because two-thirds of the city's internal road network is unscathed. It happens that the urban legendarium is guarding the Prime Minister's visit from 2015, during which Viktor Orbán got out of the car and noted that all we need here is asphalt. After 13 years of Fidesz leadership, it seems that the local Fidesz people failed to carry out the task of the Prime Minister's well-reviewed or partly well-conceived, and they inherited infrastructure retardation for the new leadership in October 2019. The entire road network has a length of 400 kilometers, of which there is no solid road cover for 300 kilometers, there is no sidewalk in 8 out of 10 streets. Taking these into account, the otherwise large number of young families who are moving here are forced to use cars in all cases, and pedestrian transport is significantly difficult for them. For example, there is a beautiful NGO working here, for example, to help families of children with multiple injuries or children, if the city is found in such a resource-free state as a result of government measures, there is little we can do for them than raise our hats to them and help them with very low costs or in projects that run at no cost, although I am convinced that otherwise the members of the Life Tree Group or their children deserve much more in and around Érden. My question, as parents say here, is whether low-reachable apples are at least given to them, whether children with multiple injuries can only get low-reachable apples. My answer is clearly that this should not be the case, but it is in a lack of resources. Unfortunately, the government is not able to develop an adequate supply system for disabled or disabled countrymen at national level. But think, fellow Members, that, in vain, these people are building a family house that is accessible and in many cases there is no threshold, a large door, a barrier to the bathroom, and they can be in a nice, accessible garden, if they leave the garden gate, however, there is nothing more to look forward to than the sinking pits, the dust, the potholes, and the fact that it is extremely difficult to get to a park or the bank of the Danube, in the absence of a sidewalk. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a historical crime to take funds from the opposition self-governments. I also think that it is not only a historical sin, but also a narrow-mindedness of which you will be the victims. Now, however, what you should see in the first round is that citizens are the victims of this withdrawal. I just can't deal with it. Thank you for listening, we can change in 2022.
u2021-04-12-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Hajdu, DK Group, also came forward after the agenda:. Small businesses have now lived up to their reserves. How does the economic rescue package look from below? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since March 11, a year ago, an extraordinary legal order has been in place with minor interruptions, so there is an emergency and on 18 March the Prime Minister announced an economic rescue package. We did not have to vote in such a way, since the economic rescue package was already adopted in an emergency under the extraordinary legal order. In this there was a very significant transfer of funds in the budget already adopted, until 31 December 2022, so for three years the Hungarian budget was already known to be spent within the framework of the economic rescue package. One thought that some kind of money from this, because we have seen the chapters, what the amounts are, will come to those areas that have actually been hit by the pandemic, the crisis. I would like to mention that there were 380 billion jobs; that seemed to be a lot of surprise and confidence in us. For job creation, HUF 804 billion, HUF 2564 billion or HUF 2416 billion were included in the financing of business. And another 235 billion forints to support families and pensioners. It was put together because it was also a reserve, and not all chapters are listed, which appeared as an economic rescue package of nearly HUF 10 000 billion. One thought that if we manage this well, it might lead us out of the situation that we saw at the time that there would be a major problem. I don't think that's what happened. In my post-meeting comment, I would like to talk about how the district feels in a constituency of Budapest with this huge money that we have spent for three years on the special account of the economic rescue package. Well, I'll join you in what you've told me before: we feel withdrawal, we feel tribute, we haven't received any money yet. So in this district, we have experienced withdrawal of business taxes and withdrawal of motor vehicles; parking is free of charge, even though it is regulated by a local regulation; local government-owned premises, which have been rented to businesses, had to be made free of charge if it was for catering or tourist purposes. Overall, Annex XV is amended as follows: In the case of a district, this meant a withdrawal of HUF 3.5 billion. As I heard from my fellow Members, there was a rumor of how many billions had arrived in the various settlements, and the gift we had was that it was probably financed by their money, or I don't know where it went. The other: part of my constituency falls to Újpest, and Újpest was mutilated with nearly HUF 3 billion. So that's what happened. I've been trying to find out if there are any people in the district who have received it, but economic rescue packages are likely to have a significant source of resources for businesses. This withdrawal will mean that, in the municipal case, after 35 billion such withdrawals have been made from the capital city in the same kere-te, and in the case of Budapest as a whole there will be 90 billion forints, the combined Budapest 24 municipalities, and by September-October more will be placed at the limit of inability to pay, if the government does not allow credit to operate, then the bankruptcy will occur in these municipalities. I've been trying to find out if the businesses that might have claimed this resource were likely to have access to this money. Balázs Barkóczi, a spokesman for DK, tried to sit in on his press conference and draw conclusions on how to obtain this money. This money is available only to the NER, unfortunately I have to say. Thank you.
u2021-04-12-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group asked for a speech with the title of the so-called replacement work of HUF 201 million in Bunny in Debrecen. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Tie me up, but honestly, since I was a kid, I don't know why the bunny lay eggs at Easter. I'll probably stay in this blissful ignorance, but the fact remains that in Debrecen the bunny laid 201 million forints of so-called replacement work. Obviously, many people were happy about this, or at least a few are sure, because at the moment, this is what God knows will increase, and when the construction of the precipitation drain of the BMW factory is finished, it will be against the original price offer. That's how the already horriable HUF 817 million became around 1 billion HUF 18 million in a year and a half for its investment. It's about the extra work. [[16.20]] 'Cause that's the magic word these days, it's been one of Fidesz's money-producing wonder guns for years, the replacement work. Of course, there are plenty of other brilliant ideas and innovations in the margins of the Fidesz people; for example, pre-work referral conversations: you don't really want to start this competition, because you can understand, you know, this is one of those worlds, and you don't have connections. Well, in Fidesz cities, there's no question about that, either in Debrecen: who doesn't have a government-powered relationship, who might be close to the fire with a Fidesz politician, who doesn't work for anyone, that company manager just swipes down, because he already knows the order in Debrecen, he knows the system, he doesn't even apply for it, because it's unnecessary. Of course, there are always a few new meats, I could say that volunteering a brave warrior, as they say, who does not yet know his systemic limitations or knows him, or knows him, but he does not understand, or is so blind or even reckless, and yet still applies for public procurement by the state, the municipality. Well, then comes the well-established and well-known, bearing solution in Debrecen, the alternative capital of Fidesz: replacement work. When the application is submitted, there are secret winks, as comrades already understand each other from half words; also because they feel, nota bene know what offers can be offered, and somehow their bid will always be the lowest on a regular basis. Often, of course, this is a low bid to the point of inability, sometimes so much so that the losers are already suing for it, that the horse's foot is hanging out, although this genre is becoming more and more lost everywhere, in Debrecen it is almost never used. You have every right to ask why this is good for the winning candidate. Why is it that, deep down under the construction price, someone wins such an application and is happy to see it, even though according to the paper form, he would now pay for it. Well, the miracles are just beginning, because there's a good entrance, which I've been talking about, you know, what the bunny in Debrecen did for 201 million forints, the pre-fat exercise, the fidesz innovation: the replacement work. This is the secret weapon used to make any public procurement, any price offer that is unrealized at first, look like a total loss, otherwise it can be profitable. This is the so-called constitutional cost-producing miracle investment that can be turned into an institution of supplementary work. And then, of course, we need some justification, and then there's a justification: an unforeseen new factor, or anything, if there's nothing else, well, please, life is expensive. In Debrecen, this investment represents about 20 percent in a year. Interestingly, life can cost 20 percent, but when it comes to retirement, this 20 percent doesn't work. In such a case, comrades' pencils can hold unscrupulously thick, because it is this tool that can increase the total amount of any investment by any amount of money, unscrupulous and unscrupulous, in the leaders of Debrecen City, in the pro-government parliamentary representatives, as this is the case with many other examples, and there are long no inhibitions. And here I would like to send a message to the unscrupulous Fidesz colleagues: the moment is coming when every penny, every penny, every extra work and every additional job is to be accounted for. They'll account for every penny! Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-220	Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, an independent representative, applied for a post-meeting speech: What will happen if the vaccine is more than registered for vaccination? You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-221	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been living our lives locked up and under restrictions for over a year now. In the beginning, the cause was the unknown disease, later the lack of adequate doses of and safe vaccines, and now it will soon be the mass of non-vaccinations, because half of our countrymen are not registered, and apparently they have no intention of registering for vaccination. What's going to happen now? There will be millions of people who want to go to the movies again, go to the theater, go to concerts, go to the swimming pool, and they will not be able to do this with a good chance or safety, because the other half of the country does not want to be vaccinated; not necessarily because they are a virus denier, but simply because they are afraid, insecurity, they do not know who to believe, they do not know who to trust. There has been a stalemate, and it is clear that this is why the ruling parties hold opposition parties and the left-wing opposition responsible; it is not unfounded, of course, because the left-wing opposition parties really changed their position on the virus once a month: one week they collected signatures against Eastern vaccines, the next week they jointly encouraged vaccination, but this is only one part of the truth. I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives to the Publicus Institute's survey at the end of March, which showed that at present there was a higher willingness to inoculate than among pro-government voters than with all opposition voters. So the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, it is your voters who, in most cases, reject vaccinations, especially in small settlements. They couldn't convince their own camp to get vaccinated, and it's hard to pin this on the opposition. The Civil Reply proposed that a large-scale information campaign be launched on 6 January. Three months later, at Kossuth Radio, Viktor Orbán thought that we should really do something about this, and that we should have an enlightenment campaign. But the fact is, my honourable pro-government colleagues, that you have degraded the public media so badly that it cannot perform its most basic function today: to provide public service. Their own voters don't believe in their own propaganda, so they don't want to go and get themselves killed. But there is another more serious reason why one half of the country is more afraid of vaccination than of the virus and believes the charlatans than scientists and researchers: who let György Gődény escape with the money taken for the election campaign, with HUF 150 million, which has not been accounted for since then, my fellow members of the government? Who's on the wheel? Who was on the government in 2018? It wasn't you, by any chance, and it wasn't you who just stood by and watched this company organize protests in the midst of the worst epidemic, sharing insane conspiracy theories? There is no family where there is no relative who is seriously ill or who has suffered permanent health damage, or who has died from this terrible disease, and in comparison to that, we see that you see that this will somehow go away. Where's national security? Where are the services? Why aren't you making any moves? If I join together all the extremist, religious fanatic or far-right or far-left groups of the last 30 years, they did not pose a risk to the health of Hungarian people as much as this virulent group of inoculations. I'm not talking about people sharing content on Facebook, I'm talking about people who consciously, planfully produce rumors, spread rumors to gain material goods to build public power, and now they're starting a political party, and they're brave enough to do that, because you're not doing anything. They shouldn't even make a law, because there's the special legal order, there's the rumor. It's been brought to war, based on war logic, but you've been talking about war against the virus, you're using war rhetoric, you're acting like a warring party. Let the 133 brave men finally have the courage, now that they really have to be brave to take action against these groups! I did it at the beginning of the year, and now I'm going to do it again: as president of the Civic Response movement, I'm going to call on the government to declare national security risks for crooks who misbehave against vaccinations, knowingly and planfully spread rumors, undermine defense, and dissuade people from vaccination. Millions of people's lives and health are at stake. Now, be brave. Now live with your powers for shaking so much and for what they wanted so much. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-12-222	Dear Parliament, János Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of changing the period. You have the floor. [[16.30]]
u2021-04-12-223	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am convinced that the people of Békés County, the citizens of Békés County, do not deserve what is now given to them because of the politics and politics of your current ruling parties. I think that the citizens of the Peaceful County deserve a better fate than being the inhabitants of one of the poorest counties of the entire European Union. These people, my compatriots, deserve more and better, are entitled to more and better in exchange for their work and taxes than they are now receiving from the Hungarian state. Consider and bear in mind that the citizens of Peaceful County are not second-class citizens of this country. My homeland doesn't want any more of the humiliating wages, it doesn't want any more of the completely unspoken public services, and it doesn't want any more of the poverty that can subdue everything. My homeland doesn't ask for any more of your handshake now, of your brother's world, of the arrogance of all kinds of unspiritual power, the pride that no one else has experienced in the last thirty years than you have. Instead of fighting, my homeland asks for peace, instead of miscarriage, order, quality life, and not fake development. These people, of whom I come, they want honest work to get from one to the other. They want the opportunity to give themselves and their families a better quality of life if they work honestly or work honestly. You know, you think that those of you who live in Pécs County don't see the news, don't watch TV, don't read the Internet, but believe me, we also see your tens of billions of hunting exhibits, we see your pants, we see your pants, we see how you distribute your raised salaries during a crisis, and we see the new diamond ring on the finger of our friend Lőrinc's wife. You know, we also know that there's our money in all of this, and there's our taxes in all of this. When we turn off the TV, turn off the Internet and go out into the street, we go around the pothole when we open the faucet at home, brown water or some liquid comes out of it every two weeks, and if we want to take our mother to a medical examination, an epidemic here or there, we have to wait months outside of an epidemic for a proper medical examination. We see on TV what money there is in this country, and we see in our own skin that we don't have it. You and everyone else who have exploited peaceful people for the last 30 years, instead of helping them, have failed and will answer for their actions. You and everyone else who have made this region a poor house in Europe for the last thirty years, while just a few decades ago this country had this pantry, failed and will be responsible for their actions. And now they have the nerve to talk about rural development, to promise investments, to deceive their own believers by hundreds of billions, to hold a press conference for three kilometers of road renovation, and to travel every lower road like walking between mines for tanks? Everyone knows that they will only fill their own pockets with the EU funds that will arrive here in Peaceful County in the next development cycle. At least that's their plan, but if it's up to us, that's not gonna happen. I'm here to give my homeland hope that this country, Peaceful County, will again, not so long, be the home of honest people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-12-224	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech:. With the renovation of the South Balaton railway, Lőrinc Mészáros benefited a lot. And the Balatonmarians, how many Balatonkers? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-12-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm sure you know that a few years ago, Lőrinc Mészáros' companies renovated the South Balaton railway line. In view of the incredible pace and magnitude of the growth of the former gas plant operator, he must have profited well from the more than 72 billion HUF investment. But how much did Somogy citizens and Balaton property owners profit? Well, not much. Rail transport has become quieter, but the journey time has not decreased significantly. However, this would have been important, as would the fact that people can use this railway regularly. The railway line is renewed, the trains are running on it, but they don't stop very much in Balatonmariafürdő. How is this possible when only 512 million forints have been spent on the two stops in Maria? Only so far, because the renovation of the Mária Wave station has not yet been completed, the station building remains useless. Even though they spent hundreds of millions of our money, the people of Somogy didn't get better. The problem is that they are staying at the Balatonmáriafürdő and Balatonkeresztúr, if they want to travel by train to Budapest, they can do so once a day. That's just at 4:51 in the morning. That's amazing. They've renovated a railway line, but there's no way to get from A to B. For example, if someone wants to go to Fonyod or even to work in Balatonboglár, they must leave at dawn. Or you'll have to go in the opposite direction, and you'll have to wait there, and you'll have to transfer, which is simply nonsense. It also shows that despite spending hundreds of millions of our money, the Somogy people have not been better off. Following the establishment of the new agenda, the Marsians also filed a complaint with the State-owned MÁV. But there was no positive change. According to the company's information, outside the high season, pay attention now. few passengers, and the schedule is so tight, it doesn't fit another stop. Now, I ask you, will it fit in the high season when the schedule gets even tighter? In addition to the absurdity of the fact that the train does not stop at the recently expensively renovated stations, one important thing must be clarified. Do not think that this is a problem for some inhabitants of just a few hundred settlements! Together with Balatonkeresztúr, tens of thousands of property owners and tens of thousands of people are affected by this problem, this paradoxical situation, who are in the region not only during the season, but already periodically. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, It is nice to promote the railway, but the basic condition of this is that the train also stops. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-12-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 26 April 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
