u2021-06-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 27th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. We'll start with pre-meeting speeches. Mr Tamás Mellar has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, 15 economists issued a statement on the planned campus of Fudan University in Budapest. The economic advantage of this investment is listed in several points by economists; they do not deal with anything but economic aspects. Then, after the release of the declaration, a large number of renowned economists joined the declaration, first János Kornai, the world-renowned economist. But I'll tell you honestly here because we're between us, and I don't really believe these economists. I think they're liberals, they're Soros rentals, and they might even be Gyurcsány's men. So I would rather believe Minister Palkovics, who knows everything and is obviously the best economist in Hungary today and, of course, Mr. Balázs Schanda State Secretary [[János Schanda: Tamás! Csaba Dömötör: That's his brother.]] He's also a very good economist. So they reassured me that it would be a very good investment, that in five years this 540 billion state investment would pay off, and that the country would then realise immense benefits. I am therefore convinced by the government's people, and I am quite confident that the campus of the University owned by the People's Republic of China and managed by the Chinese Communist Party will be a very good investment in Budapest. It's just public opinion. You know, in public opinion, I see more and more people getting insecure, and you think there's something wrong with this investment. In this regard, I would like to propose to you a plan on what could be done to restore confidence. The plan is very simple. Here's what you should do. Members of the government and 133 brave members of the Fidesz will sign an obligation that if the Fudan investment does not return in five years, they will be responsible for this and will be compensated for it by their own and family assets. This offer will certainly reassure the public, and the Hungarian people will be able to rejoin the unbreakable Chinese-Hungarian friendship and this new symbol. At the same time, it will cost you nothing, because, as has been said in several places, it is a foolproof investment, so you are not risking anything in a single world. So I think this is a plan that you can safely accept. For my idea, which, let's face it, is indeed a great idea, I do not ask for any kind of remuneration, I give it free and wage-free to exploit the economy. All I'm asking the replying Secretary of State is not to talk about me, not my past, not my class affiliation, that I'm a member of the clerical reaction, sorry, that was a long time ago. Now I'm on the liberal serialist team. I know that, I understand, and I accept your harsh criticism of this. I would ask the Secretary of State to concentrate much more on the suggestion I have given in his reply whether all the members of the government and the 133 courageous Members are willing to sign such an obligation, in which he commits himself, with his own personal and family assets, to guarantee this very excellent investment. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I beg your pardon, I hope I will not disappoint you that you will not be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. I'm sure it's not Balázs Schanda, because he's a constitutional judge. [[Defiance.]] and works in the Constitutional Court. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar will spread his arms.]] So this morning, you don't have Schanda, only one Orbán, so if you'll allow me, in this spirit, I'd like to respond briefly to what you have to say. If I understand your proposal correctly, you refer to the fact that you were persecuted before the system change, even after the regime change, but I can see that even though you said in 2018 that you would never cooperate with the left and Ferenc Gyurcsány, you took on the Gyurcsány tempo quite quickly, because you threatened to lose wealth to Members of Parliament and their families who were involved in implementing their parliamentary decision, or who voted in favour of a matter that they thought was important. So you may have been hurt 30 years ago, but right now in your rhetoric, in your attitude, you've become more like them. You've never been in that style before, and it would be very good if it weren't. However, it has brought an important subject to Parliament's walls, which is the issue of the renewal of higher education. I think that in normal, civilised human conversations it is not possible to argue that the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education needs to be improved, and that the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education can only be improved by putting more resources into higher education in Hungary than before, and admit it here, between us, if you have used this term, higher education is also an international market, in this market there is international cooperation and international competition. Therefore, it is in our interest to ensure that Hungarian universities are competitive in this higher education market on the one hand, that they have greater capital supply, that they can spend more money on quality higher education, and that the best universities in the world are also interested in the success of the Hungarian higher education area. It doesn't matter if they come from the east or the west. Now, in this geopolitical context, if I may, I would not agree, but none of the economists, lawyers or academics dispute that universities that are at the top of the international rankings are high-quality universities, they do not represent a party ideology, whether they are found in the United States of America or China. These are high-quality universities, which can in principle contribute to the renewal of Hungarian higher education as a single element. [[9.10]] I believe that the key element of the reform or this turn of competitiveness is that the Hungarian state, in itself, despite the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, has decided to put more resources into higher education not only from EU funds but also from Hungarian budgetary sources, and that universities will also receive wealth, which is the necessary, but is not a sufficient condition for renewal. If you look at, for example, how universities in the United States of America from the Ivy League started in the 1800s, interestingly, what will you find? That they started out as foundations, that they were founded by the state and that the state had given them wealth. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar is shaking his head.]] Yes, you can. Factories, lands, and that's where they started. Harvard, Yale, all the Ivy League universities started like this 150 years ago. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Part of our particular historical development is that we have to work on this deficit now, but we are prepared to work it out, and unlike the way your allies handled the crisis before 2010, we believe that in the crisis, we do not have to withdraw money from the human sector, we do not have to take income from people and businesses, but, on the contrary, we need to reduce taxes, increase income and more resources in the human sectors, so we need to invest in health and education. I don't understand why this is not to be supported by you. By the way, regarding economists, if only one comment is allowed, these economists have expressed an opinion on something that does not exist at the moment. There is no interstate contract that allows economic analysis to be carried out that this is economically rational or not for Hungary. This will be discussed later by Parliament, and you will also have the opportunity to give your opinion on this, but until these documents are before Parliament until these negotiations have taken place, this is nothing but political hysteria against an educational international cooperation. I don't understand why this is good for you, I don't understand why it's good for the balliberal side. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw attention to an important problem, a legal error or a deficiency, or simply a mistake, which has been pointed out to me by other healthcare providers over the past few years. It can lead to serious disruptions or even termination of the service in a given place if there is no substantial change, because it seems that in several places in the country there is a danger to the type of outpatient care provided by healthcare providers with 100% NEAK funding. Service providers conclude contracts with NEAK, of course patients do not pay for the service. They perform public tasks, we usually talk about privately-owned healthcare providers, so they provide this in private properties, with their own equipment, using very good standards and modern equipment. With these companies, contracts were created, because, let's say, they took over certain municipal tasks. We use the German point in the financing of health care, the value of this HUF has increased steadily until 2017, but since 2017 it has been stable forint 1.98, unfortunately no increase has been made since then. Because of the change in funding, these providers cannot manage or pay their doctors for increased wages, as they have been left out of it. The public and municipal service providers, or the church-owned service providers, have been included in the law, but these Kft.-s or other masseuse providers are not, so unfortunately, they are afraid that they will leave them, or they will simply not be able to continue because of a shortage of specialists. But also to give a concrete example, so that my fellow Members do not think that I just picked these from somewhere, in Pécs, Uro-Clin Kft. for example, which has been supplying the city of Pécs with a public-funded outpatient clinic in 90 specialist hours per week and only in the region since 2000, it also operates a urodynamic specialization with direct NEAK funding for which the same problem exists. Or I could also mention EÜ-MED Kft., operating in Komló since 1997, which is a healthcare provider, its main activity is specialist outpatient care, with a supply area of 35 thousand people. It also operates in its own real estate, with its own infrastructure, and provides ultrasound diagnostics in neurology, rheumatology, orthopedics, psychiatry and urology, physiotherapy, physiotherapists. Back in the day, it was handed over by the Hop Hospital and Hospital Unit for a shortage of specialists. Unfortunately, however, they are the same, as I have already mentioned, that the increased, correctly increased medical wages, let us add, are simply no longer available for farming. My questions are: have you forgotten about these providers, or are you deliberately not raising funding? If deliberately, what is the reason and are you willing to review this situation and to remedy the problems of these providers? As I said, it can affect many people throughout the country, and to my knowledge, even a one-day surgical procedure, where it operates in this format, could be compromised. I'm asking you to answer these questions, please. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you have pointed out in your speech, we have taken a huge step, because since the change of regime, there has not been an example that a government has taken a tangible and effective step towards delivering gratuity money by radically increasing the wages of doctors. This surplus is clearly reflected in next year's budget, as there is a very high amount of HUF 2884 billion in healthcare expenditure. This is 1700 billion forints greater than what was read at the beginning of our governance on this line, 141 percent. So we have added 1.5 times as much to the operating costs of Hungarian healthcare in the last ten years as the operating costs of healthcare in 2010. So we added one and a half times more than the entire health system worked out. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar will spread his arms.]] You can spread your hands, Mr. Congressman, but these are numbers, you know, and it is worth adopting and voting on the budget law so that you know these numbers. Well, so, this is a very significant increase, and one of the biggest items of this, which is next year's rise, will indeed appear in the wages of doctors and nurses, because the increase in the wages of doctors will continue to give you an example of what this could mean in the case of a doctor, or a 30 percent increase for nurses as of 1 January, and the 12 months' coverage of this will be included in next year's budget law. This is a very important goal for us. We had an important goal of eliminating gratuity money, settling medical wages, and separating private care activities and public care activities, so that there would be no public ordering in the same hospital ward or room in the morning and private ordering in the afternoon. I think these are goals that everyone can agree with. As far as outpatients are concerned, the State has an obligation to provide outpatient care. There are places where outpatient care is an integral part of the hospital's operation and care is provided within the hospital. There are places where the municipality organises it itself, and there are places where it is contracted by an external health service provider, which may, where appropriate, be those Kft.-- which you said in most cases is a joint venture created by doctors, or an undertaking created by one person, which is operated by others, and the state, in whatever form this specialist care takes place, is financed in the same way in all forms. [[9.20]] It is financed in the same way if you are in a hospital, it is financed in the same way when you are in a local government, and it is financed in the same way when a health care provider is contracted to provide this service with another health service provider. So you can't say that the type you're talking about would be in a different situation than doing the same in a hospital, because the financing conditions, the conditions of its operation, the financing of NEAK are the same. These more external service providers cannot say that they are in a bad situation, because there is another model for this, the outpatient clinic in the municipality or in the hospital, which continues to work and pays the increased salaries to its employees. Obviously, there are many different features of a country, of a city, of different tasks for individual clinics, but their funding is the same everywhere, and no one in any sector can say that he is in a worse situation. As far as the medical number is concerned, you said that in some places this form was chosen because of the lack of doctors. Fortunately, there are now far more doctors working in Hungary than ten years ago, since, unfortunately, our predecessors have actually reduced the number of doctors in Hungary, from 37 295 to 33943, while the number of doctors working in Hungary has increased in recent years, thanks also to the fact that there were wage increases; thanks also to the fact that more people graduated from the university; and thanks to the fact that fewer people went abroad. If the same trend had continued and the same number of doctors had gone abroad in 2011 and 12, and 13 and the last years, as in 2010, in the last year of socialist governance, there would have been 3200 fewer doctors in Hungary. So it has also helped many people who organise any kind of medical care, that there are already several doctors who can be used or entrusted with the provision of these services and public services. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] So, honourable Member, fortunately, wages in health care are increasing. Despite the great difficulties faced by all countries around the world because of the coronal virus epidemic, Hungary has not dealt with this crisis as those with whom you are sitting on a bench, who have taken wages from doctors and taken wages from nurses, but have treated it as a 30 percent increase in the wages of nurses next year and a double increase in the wages of doctors, honourable Member. And those benefits that you mentioned will continue to be financed sector-neutrally from resources raised by 141 percent over the last 10 years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the DK Group, Mrs Bősz Anett has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Psalm 55 verse 6 says: "Fear and terror fell upon me, and a terror surrounded me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As I look at the behaviour of the pro-government fellow Members over the last few months, I must say that this sentence is about you, because you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, can no longer hide your fear. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] Not only are they afraid of losing power, but they are clearly prepared for the consequences of this, and they are well prepared to avoid the least loss of government. It is not the Democrat, honourable fellow Members, who gain power in a free election, but the one who is ready to lose it in a free election with his head raised, but you are afraid to be measured in free elections, which is why one of their first measures was to change the electoral system in such a way that it would benefit you. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Why are you sitting in Parliament? Why are you taking the money? Why are you running for president?]] This is why today there is no international expert, no observer who considers the Hungarian electoral system pure. You are afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that is why you have unilaterally changed the structure of public power. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Dictatorship...]] This is what the rules on the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the budget and personal decisions are about. You are afraid of being held accountable because you have implemented what the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary has abolished, and your Fundamental Law has also taken over the pursuit of exclusive exercise of power. In many respects, this effort has succeeded. You say that the rule of law is just a wand in the hands of the EU, but then I will raise some questions, honourable State Secretary. Then why seek to break judicial independence? Why don't you dare argue in the parliamentary committees? Why was the former head of the Fidesz faction placed at the head of the State Audit Office? [[Complaining from the pro-government benches:]] You are afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that for the crimes that have been committed before us for the last 11 years, some of the NER's favourites will also have criminal liability, because it is not true that the enrichment of all their fellow Members, all their friends and all their business partners would have been lawful. That is why they made the Attorney General, who is also your friend, impossible to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office at fundamental level. It is just this week that we are ashamed to be one of the very few in the European Union, honourable State Secretary, who do not want to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm asking you, why? You're afraid that you're going to be short of money in opposition, so you're going to be saving up, and you're going to be using public money. This is what the foundation of universities is about, the recapitalisation of the layer you call the new national capital banks, the provision of huge budgetary resources to friendly churches, while many small churches face significant legal disadvantages or financial disadvantages. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Real DK...]] Dear fellow Member, If I hadn't told you the truth, you wouldn't have started yelling at me in the second minute, which is still going on. You are afraid that, in the event of a change of power, we would join the euro area, which would make the National Bank lose the extra profit resulting from the weakening of the forint on the international market. That is why the Fundamental Law lays down that Hungary's currency is the forint. You are also afraid that the world will change, which you have so carefully adapted to your own needs, and to the approximately 2.5 million people you expect to vote from next year; to the 2.5 million people who, for example, are favored by the current family policy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: More rubber bullets, huh?]] But unfortunately, this social group is very heterogeneous. The threat appears here too, the threat appears here as well. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who threatens you? Is he threatening you or are we threatening you? I can't tell the difference...]] What you have done in your administration. They also expect votes from those who are told that tomorrow you will no longer have to apply for community service, that if you do not vote for Fidesz, respected public workers will be there at the end. The Democratic Coalition and Liberals are fighting together for a Hungary [[Dr. Pál Völner: What about Christmas?]] The one that's gonna change that. Together, we are fighting for a Hungary where we can stop not only individual but also social violations, and we can create a Hungary together, part of which is that everyone can stand out without exception, not just those who please this government. By the way, I trust that our joint candidate for Prime Minister Klára Dobrev can fight for such a Hungary, not only during the pre-election, but after 2022, and we can rebuild the Republic of Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-01-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard so much in these five minutes; we can even derive from the mistakes of the past the mistakes of the present that have been made. It was said here that we, for example, only the oldest of the Fundamental Law were cemented, and that we did not join the EU Prosecutor's Office because the prosecutor's office has changed with the Fundamental Law... Since 1955 the Hungarian Prosecutor's Office has been independent and is subject to parliament. So, technically, it's a public-law tradition. I would just like to point out that perhaps we should work with a little more accurate data when such a parliamentary speech is taking place so that we can debate facts. It's been said that the leader of the Fidesz fraction, I don't know what we've named him, and I don't know which one anyway, because that's what it's like to watch the story of the last 30 years. So it's hard for me to argue this way with the congresswoman when I meet these people. He started his speech with the electoral system. If we think about the electoral system, the electoral system, the electoral district boundary system, a Council of Ministers decree that we carried until 2010, and the Constitutional Court's decision required Parliament to change this. Technically, Parliament has been in default all along, and we have now been able to create something where the so-called rotted constituencies known from the English system have been abolished, where half as many votes could be obtained as in another constituency, where appropriate. [[9.30]] So when we talk about what we have done in the area of suffrage, we have practically made it clearer, more transparent, more democratic. And to talk about what's democratic and what's not, and that I've been elected practically democratically... that's practically going to be tested again in the democratic elections; it's happened. Since 1990 there have always been democratic elections, the Fidesz has always been involved, practically launched. He started on his own, with independent candidates, a single prime minister candidate. We always had the courage to do this, and thank God, the voters appreciated this, because in the last election, by two-thirds majority, either the old electoral system or the new one, they voted in confidence in this party alliance to ensure the country's rise in government. When you talk about changing this country, you have to look at the references you have. They have a main man named Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has had references since 2002, starting with the 23 million Romanians with whom he threatened Hungary, until he gave his famous speech in Autumn, which he considers to be the truth. We continue to believe that he told us how much he lied and then continued to do the same. By the way, it wasn't a public speech, it was a leaked speech, and then they were surprised that they failed, practically all the elections have failed since then. They've been carrying the burden of this ever since, and Ferenc Gyurcsány. Well, carry on, and technically, if by change you mean what he did at the time, then we can go after the 2022 elections with good hopes, because all those who are faced with practically lying prosperity and then taking the VAT keys down before the elections, and then he immediately raised it, and then he practically lied the whole world about what the economic situation is like here, remembering the puma and all sorts of expressions that even fooled the international press into what economic prosperity there was in Hungary, and that's where the country turned into a recession where you took wages and pensions, increased inflation. Jobs: 12 percent unemployment. If that is what you want this change to be again, all healthy Hungarians will say no. Technically, when they talk about what our economic policy is like, that we have a national economic policy, that we say that national capital is more important than the expansion of multinational capital, because the very thing that protects Hungarian jobs is that the income generated stays here, they are reversed here, and we can see that we live in two different worlds here, and we hope that the voters have seen, seen, and will see, and they will vote that their standard of living will continue to rise, and not yours, and not the multinationals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech from the MSZP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I can agree with Mr Völner's one sentence, what he said at the end, that we really do live in two different worlds. It's just that when you're preparing for these speeches, and you're looking at the last few weeks and months, I'm talking about health in the last few months, I'm always asking myself, do we really see two different worlds? Do they really not face the reality that is happening in Hungary today? You don't get letters from voters that we got, stories that we get? Allow me to begin my speech with this again. And I could say that this sentence, which Minister Kásler has said, may have marked all of them in the last year: the whole process of the epidemic was the right decision, it was the right analysis of the situation, so I cannot say back in the last year, not one of the circumstances that we would not have judged correctly. You know, if I keep repeating that sentence like this, then I have to ask myself, maybe it's my good friend who was buried last week and his family thought the same thing. Because if you had received this medical care in time, which you couldn't have because of the plague, which the doctor said, maybe you shouldn't have buried it last week. Perhaps my good friend, who has been waiting for a ripped hernia surgery for three months now, had surgery three quarters of a year ago, and was specifically told in January that he would not be operated on unless he was in a life-threatening condition... thank God, since then the ban on surgery has been lifted and he is going to surgery next week; he has survived these three months. And I say this to you all the time because, yes, we had to defend ourselves, we had to take measures about the epidemic, but it would not have happened in Hungary to remain ill. This was also said by their minister,... although I would add that I would ask with a great question: indeed, Miklós Kásler is the minister of what, because from Gergely Gulyás to Sándor Szijjártó, from Pintér to Sándor Pintér, everyone is responsible, and we are lost in all the ministries and ministers who we now have to turn to if we want to ask any questions. I have mentioned Minister Gulyás now because he has not yet been very concerned with health, because today we are going to negotiate two laws that affect health: one is the change of fertility centres; two more private centres will be nationalised, and the other one is the change of drug subsidies, and Minister Gulyás notes this amendment. Then I'll ask you, Secretary of State, if you'll ever answer what Minister Kasler is doing. The other is that the deadline expired on May 31st... let's go back in time, we had to sign the new medical status for health workers on March 1st. It is true that, to date, we do not know that 4 000 or 5500 health workers have not signed this contract and left their medical careers overnight, but we are also aware that there are also a large number of health workers who have endorsed the new contract to give you a deadline until 31 May to clarify how their situation is going to turn out. Mr Secretary of State, apart from asking what Minister Kasler is doing, because we would like to know this, he is able to answer how many of the health workers who stood up again and left the health care that was already in ruins yesterday. Mr Secretary, I say this because you said it in vain, and now let us put aside that opposition politicians warned you; let us put these aside. But the profession itself has warned you that this will have serious consequences, that this service has been introduced overnight without listening to the profession, and you can say that you have agreed with MOK, that is not true. They didn't talk about what ended the law. Because you're doing this very well: you're pretending to agree, you're pretending to incorporate those proposals into the law, and then two days later, you're gonna find out that there's nothing to do with the law that the profession has to offer. I can say specifically, Mr Secretary, that if you do not see the problem in health care, then I must say that you have become unscrupulous and completely intoxicated with power. This is unacceptable! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because health care can't wait any longer for changes to be made that really benefit people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-01-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The health performance of governments can be compared. We have renovated over 70 hospitals and we are building a new super-hospital in southern Buda, and also more locations in Budapest; you have closed four hospitals, honourable Member. We build and renovate hospitals, you shut down four hospitals in Hungary. You've reduced doctors' wages, you've reduced nurses' wages. You can say nice words here, but in fact, you took money from the doctors, took money from the nurses. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] A total of 6,000 health workers were put on the street when 16,000 infirmary beds were liquidated in Hungarian hospitals, including those in closed hospitals, honourable Member. When you were on the government, you were taken from nurses and taken from doctors. In this cycle, we increase the wages of nurses by 72 percent, and the wages of doctors more than double, and at last, after 70 years, we will be able to drive out the gratuity money in Hungary. [[9.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your words and your performance are exactly the opposite. Among other things, why? Because you took me from the medical register. They wanted people in their pockets to pay as much as possible for health care. This was the visit fee and the hospital daily allowance, which only the referendum could cancel, honourable Member. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] You say that you are always in close contact with people. Well, then, how is it possible that measures were introduced with a hospital allowance and a visitation fee that the overwhelming majority of people swept away in an instant, and then you were swept away as well? The SDS also ceased after that, honourable Member. On the other hand, we have increased health resources. According to the OECD, your government was the only one among the developed countries who reduced health expenditure per capita in proportion to GDP. There was no other government, just the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, which reduced health costs, all other governments to a small or greater extent, but increased. Except for you, there were none that would have reduced it. Compared to this, health expenditure has increased by 141 percent in the budget since 2010. Take a look at the 2010 budget you have put forward and look at the budget of 22 that we will be voting on within weeks, which we have tabled. Compare the two numbers. You'll see that this number is nearly two-and-a-half times that number. In Hungarian, more was added to the health register since 2010 than the money in the health register in 2010 after previous decades, honourable Member. After that, you are completely uncredited to talk about such matters. I have already told you here today, but I think it is worth telling you: you started at the beginning of your government with 37 295 doctors in Hungary, 37 thousand! And they ended their government in 2010 with 33 943 doctors, so you managed to reduce the number of doctors working by at least 3,500 because they were laid off because they had their pay cut because they had their jobs eliminated. That is why the number of doctors has decreased, and since then the number of doctors with operating licences has increased by nearly 5,000. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, everyone agrees with what you're saying, that there should be more doctors to heal, but you've reduced the number of doctors in your time and reduced the pay of doctors. I strongly reject, honourable Member, what you said about Hungarian defence. Once again, as you minimized the entire Hungarian health care in the second half of your speech, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] He also completely wiped out the results or results of Hungarian health care protection, and said that this is invaluable and worse than the performance of other countries. At a time when patients were in hospital parking areas in other countries with non-invasive ventilators; when patients were taken by train from other countries to the capital by train; when other countries called doctors from abroad because they couldn't care for their patients; because they couldn't care for their patients or their patients abroad because they couldn't care for their own patients; when, say, in England, public health screenings were suspended for six months; when [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] In France, emergency interventions were delayed in real cancer patients, they were unable to perform during the coronal virus epidemic in addition to the care of patients with coronal viruses, and all urgent life-saving interventions continued to take place in Hungary. All the interventions needed to safeguard the health status have been carried out. And in the meantime, what did you do? Chamuvides accused health workers of spreading false news, obstructing protection where they could. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a proposal for an anti-vaccination decision has been submitted to Parliament, which has not been withdrawn since then. If anyone made the defense difficult, it was you, not the Hungarian doctors, not the Hungarian nurses and not the operational tribe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At a speech before the agenda, Mr Orbán, State Secretary, replied that income should not be taken from entrepreneurs, tax should be reduced, and that is how the economic crisis should come out. I think that we fully agree with this, but the actions and actions do not show the same things that are said here, within the walls of this House. Yesterday, the sectoral wage support programme has ceased, and while there will be a new wage support programme for entrepreneurs from today, let us look at what you have done since November, how you have helped businesses! When we hear that 30,000 companies have received wage subsidies and other subsidies from the government, let us add the figure that there are 1 million 800 thousand farming organisations in Hungary today, so it is 1.6 percent of businesses that have received wage subsidies or any assistance from the government. Let us also add that the amount of HUF 87 billion that you have paid for your support would increase the amount of the World Hunting Exhibition, which is HUF 75 billion. Then it should be borne in mind that you really are right that you want to leave your income with the entrepreneurs, you have to support them and you have to reduce taxes. Yesterday, the tax reduction of entrepreneurs, ditchings and businesses that did not have to pay taxes on the basis of specific TEÁOR numbers has expired, and this is also over. So we have come to the point that the pandemic, the emergency is still going on, you have pushed it even further, until autumn, but the businesses have remained there alone, and then this company's support for labour starts from today, and then who will be able to use it, we have a certain suspicion, and we are living with the idea that here, among the walls of the House, we have proven several times that when we think about it, it will always be true that there is a specific circle that will benefit from these subsidies. So we have come to the point that what you are saying and what you are doing is not true, but we are not surprised, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has already indicated that you must always look at what you are doing and not only within the walls of this House, but also outside the walls of this House. It is no coincidence that we brought this to Parliament today, because the economic crisis is getting deeper, even if you are trying to wrap it in such a pink cloud and tell everyone through the government propaganda, leading the Hungarian people that everything is fine. Even though they say that the economy will grow by 12 and 14 percent, of course, we will see, because the words can handle everything, but when the numbers really come up and the statistics will show the truth, then we can see that, as the government debt went by last year, and the budget deficit went up in the sky, then we can start thinking about where Hungary went on. Also referring back to the labour market is only a statistical data presented by your Central Statistical Office: from March to April, 57 thousand Hungarian workers lost their jobs, and this led to a hopeless situation for families. The credit moratorium has been extended again, but what happens next? Why don't you call the attention of the Hungarian people to always look into the conditions under which they can be used? But by referring back to businesses, I hope that Secretary of State Schanda will give a satisfactory answer to my question that he really believes he has helped the businesses. Once again, there are nearly two million businesses in Hungary today. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to be at least a little creative when you start left-winging and ringing. Fidesz of Siófok was at least creative enough to call me an alien with a thousand faces. There's nothing wrong with that. We can handle criticism. Just be a little creative now, and really answer the question. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks.]] Because they're gonna tell us who did what 12 years ago, 15 and 18 years ago. We should talk about what you have been doing here in Parliament for 11 years, why Hungarian workers have been released, why Hungarian families have been released, and why Hungarian economic operators have been released. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-01-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As requested by Mrs Schanda Tamás State Secretary, the answer will be given. [[Defiance.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speech is false, it's true left-wing talk. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Since you had the opportunity to support Hungarian companies, support the sectoral wage support programme and support the credit moratorium. And what did you do? With his entire faction, he said no to maintaining the credit moratorium, which protects more than half a million companies and nearly one and a half million families. You said no to that. After that, he stands up in the Parliament and asks us to take account of the measures. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's quite unworthy, Pharisee behavior. Let us also talk about the fact that the sectoral wage support programme protected the workplace of 30,000 companies and 180 thousand employees, we were able to pay half of the wages, but the government also let go of the contributions, so we were able to secure two thirds of the total costs. While we assured you of this, while we gave this support to the companies, what your local governments did, honourable Member! Let's take a look. What did they do? On the one hand, they wanted to raise taxes for these companies, to raise taxes, and on the other hand, government wage subsidies were infiltrated from companies' accounts. It is quite unworthy, quite unworthy, that they were even trying to prevent government help! In addition, you deliberately spread false news when you try to compare different costs with the World Hunting Exhibition, because you know that the World Hunting Exhibition costs HUF 17 billion, not the number you mentioned in your speech. In addition, it is an event that is important for the re-launch of tourism in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are also not telling the truth when you say that we have helped the Hungarian economy restart and strengthen only through sectoral wage support. It can be said that last year we spent HUF 4000 billion on strengthening the economy and re-launching the economy, with countless programmes, investment support, wage support, development opportunities, development loans, we were all there for the players in the economy. If I may mention just one programme, because the R &amp; D wage support was also a particularly important programme and wage support-type, which you did not deliberately speak of, we were able to preserve the workplace of 21 thousand engineers and researchers; teams, R &amp; D teams that really, really come in handy when there is competition in the world and when everyone is dealing with re-launching. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We could mention from the economic re-launch action plan the credit moratorium, which has already been discussed, has indeed been extended, now protecting families and businesses for 17 months. But we could talk about the flat tax, the renovation program, the restoration of the 13th month pension or even the personal income tax exemption for people under the age of 25 or even the program that provides a loan of up to HUF 10 million, zero percent, free of interest to small businesses. These are the real help. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is also clear that the results of these measures, which you lied about, are visible to everyone, because in March 2021 unemployment again fell to 4 percent in Hungary, which is much lower, almost half of them than the EU average, and less than half of the euro area average, is 8.1 percent. In April 2021, the number of people employed was 4 million and 559,000, which was higher than the number a year ago, not least by 36,000. This means that Hungary has reached the level of employment where it was before the crisis. We have done this with employers and employees, but without you, because you will never help us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! To speak before the agenda from the KDNP Group, Ms Hajnalka Juhász applied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On 21 May, Hungary took over the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. This is a huge opportunity for a country and Hungary's Government to present its values and values in these five months. In the case of the Council of Europe, it is important to emphasise that the international organisation established by the London Convention in 1949 is the largest international organisation on our continent; with the exception of the Vatican, Kosovo and Belarus, all European countries are members. We can be proud of our Presidency priorities, the Hungarian Presidency has set unique priorities, including the protection of the rights of national minorities, the interreligious dialogue, where we have the opportunity to present our humanitarian aid programme, the Hungary Helps programme, our unique family support system in addition to the protection of youth and children's rights, family values, as well as the potential for future challenges in terms of cybercrime, digitalisation competitiveness and, not least, environmental protection, sustainability and the right to a healthy environment. We can also be particularly proud of the issue of protecting the rights of national minorities because we have included this among our Presidency priorities, because the Minority SafePack is certainly creating a very serious mistrust in the EU institutions. Not only because the rights of national minorities are not supported by the European Commission, but, basically, the citizens' initiative was a system that was created precisely so that the Union could replace this hyate in this respect. In 1993, when the Copenhagen criteria were formulated, the Member States were very ambitious, but we have seen recently that the European Union does not feel or understand the historic moment it needs to fill. That is why it is important for us to remind the European Commission, in many cases during our Presidency, of this huge mistake, and we can do so, because the Council of Europe has the two most important minority protection documents, the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the framework agreement on the protection of the rights of national minorities. We cannot go beyond that, and I would like to stress that, during our Presidency, we will also give priority to the issue of the educational and linguistic rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, because Ukraine is a member of the Council of Europe and we have the opportunity to express ourselves on this issue during the Presidency. We have set priorities that, in recent times, really reflect a very wide range of Christian Democratic values. We have taken over the presidency from Germany and will hand it over to Italy on 17 November. It is a rotation system that has been operating in the Council of Europe since the 1950s. There is also a huge opportunity that is taking place in parallel, the V4 Presidency and our country in July, so I think that in these areas, the Christian Democratic values, traditions, cultural heritage, national identity and the importance of the Christian values system are once again on the agenda, because I think we feel that these priorities are sending a very important message to the Council of Europe and that they are completing a mission. The purpose of this is to reverse the Council of Europe's values and traditions created by the founding fathers after World War II. I think and believe that the pro-government delegation will do everything in the coming period to ensure that our Hungarian Presidency is successful and that we rightly represent the Christian Democratic values. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, has responded to the statement before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you have said, Minister Péter Szijjártó took over the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on behalf of Hungary from Germany for the next period, in which I believe that outstanding attention will be placed on our country and that we will try to take full advantage of its potential, since all ministerial meetings of the Ministerial Committee will be chaired by Minister Péter Szijjártó, while the Permanent Representative of Strasbourg will work in the weekly ambassadorial formation. [[10.00]] A programme of professional and cultural events will also be implemented within the Presidency in the next six months. Our ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, is responsible for coordinating the Presidency programme framework, including, of course, the opinion of the programmes planned to be implemented by other wallets, the implementation of their own professional events and the organisation of programmes to promote Hungarian culture. It should be pointed out that the Hungarian Presidency of the Ministerial Committee is a serious opportunity to prioritise our human rights and the rights of minorities, which are of national political importance to our country, and is evidence that Hungary is committed to working together within the multilateral framework. As the Member said, we pay particular attention to promoting the effective protection of national minorities, with five professional programmes organised by the Prime Minister's Office in addition to the events to be organised on this subject, and we are planning to issue a joint statement on the protection of national minorities together with the countries giving us the forthcoming presidencies, including Italy, and, as the Member said, this is an excellent opportunity to direct the attention of the European Union and the European Commission to this issue and to draw attention to the fact that there are still shortcomings that the Commission needs to remedy here. With regard to future generations' priorities, we will also cooperate with the Ministry of Interior, without the Ministry of Families, with the Ministry of Human Resources in preparing the relevant programmes, and in relation to this priority, I think it is important to stress that in Budapest there is the only youth centre of the Council of Europe outside Strasbourg, the building of which will be maintained by the Hungarian government and can serve as a location for further programmes. The religious dimension of intercultural dialogue aims to strengthen respect, tolerance and understanding for one another at a pan-European level. In particular, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been active in this area. In recent times, we have had less attention to this area, and our aim is to put this issue at the centre of attention in the near future. Today, addressing the challenges of the future, including the challenge of cybercrime or artificial intelligence, and the Council of Europe is also active in this area, and it is also a matter of fact that this year the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime is 20 years old and its additional second protocol is being adopted. In addition to cybercrime, the Council of Europe would also like to play a leading role in developing international standards in the field of artificial intelligence, which, I think, is a topical issue today. We would like to continue to support this process by joining this endeavour during the Presidency. We also want to play an extremely active role in the environmental dimension. We pay particular attention to important issues during the Hungarian Presidency, including European landscape protection, protection of habitats, fundamental right to a healthy environment and sustainable development. Finally, I would like to thank the Parliament for its support so far, a separate Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, who is also assisting this work as ministerial Commissioner, and I wish, as the Member has said, that the Presidency of the Council of Europe and the Presidency of the four Visegrad will together create an opportunity to achieve the priorities and objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Halász applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Together in Hungary, we broke the third wave of the pandemic. Thank you for the sacrifice of the workers involved in the defence and vaccination campaign; we are counting on them and they can count on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. At the same time, in addition to the pandemic, we still have the other threat, illegal migration. Unfortunately, the number of illegal cross-border attempts is rising again to a worrying extent. Many people are trying to get into our country illegally, and there is an increase in the activity of smuggling networks. This year, 36 119 border infringements have been caught by the Hungarian authorities, while last year this number was 9877. It can be seen that the increase was more than three and a half times higher, and the numbers increase from month to month, so the pressure on the southern border of Hungary is increasing. Our police and soldiers are doing everything they can to stop the crowds that are moving through us to Western Europe and to prevent a catastrophic migration crisis like in 2015. Thank you for your sacrifice, your service. In addition to the southern border section, however, there is another very important site where there is a struggle to protect our country, and this is the European Union, because the EU's asylum and migration rules are being reformed. Last autumn, the European Commission presented a package of proposals on asylum and migration, which has since been discussed at expert level and is expected to be discussed by Heads of State or Government in June. It is clear from the draft EU legislation that Brussels still does not want to stop migration, but rather manage it, allow the masses flowing into Europe and seek to get them to all the Member States of the Union. The proposals include the so-called solidarity elements that would seemingly allow Member States to decide whether to allow migrants in, but if we look at the possibilities more carefully, each one of them. It would be the end of the day that migrants should be accepted, i.e. they are sneaking around again trying to force the compulsory quota on us. This is outrageous, this has already been rejected in a referendum, and the Hungarians' position on this issue is clear: we do not ask for the resettlement quota, so we ask the government not to give in to the clear Hungarian position. Dear House, By the way, a few weeks ago there was a video conference of the Visegrad Parliamentary Committees on Home Affairs, where migration and terrorism were the priority topics. The V4s agree that this EU agreement cannot lead to a mandatory quota, so the Baltic States, Austria and Denmark share a similar position with our allies. At the same time, the subject was also discussed in Parliament's committee meetings between the walls of this House. The representatives of the Hungarian Left said this: this proposal is a huge step forward, or is it moving in a completely different direction from the Dublin Regulation, which is forward-looking, or what else has been said? I do not understand why this is not good for Hungary; so these are what left-wing representatives say from Jobbik to DK. These statements also prove that the left does not represent the interests of Hungary and not the interests of the Hungarian people. On the other hand, Fidesz represents the interests of the Hungarian people and, as already stated in the referendum, we do not allow the compulsory resettlement quotas of migrants to be imposed on us. The government can count on the Fidesz fraction in this fight, with the full strength of our faction, it stands by the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to the speech by the Member before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-01-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's position is that immigration must be stopped rather than promoted and encouraged. The Government of Hungary represents the interests of the Hungarian people, we do not allow migrants in, we reject the quota and we defend the Hungarian borders; on the other hand, the left led by Gyurcsány does not represent the interests of the Hungarian people, it is a party to migrants. Honourable Congressman, As you said, this year's migratory pressure on Hungarian borders has revived. The Balkan route continues to attract and maintain a very lively migrant mass. [[10.10]] Not only the number of migrants and the number of people who wish to enter Hungary illegally increased dramatically, as you said, nearly four times compared to last year's similar period, but also the activities of smugglers and human trafficking have also been revived, and the number of people smuggled in the previous period was 344 between 1 January 2021 and 30 May 2021, while 125 during the same period of 2020. So the number of smugglers has almost tripled. I would also like to thank the police and soldiers protecting Hungary's borders. Thank you for doing everything you can to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary and Europe. I would also like to say that in order to preserve the security that is the most important Community value, the Government of Hungary is doing its best. Thanks to the measures taken by the government, Hungary is today one of the safest countries in Europe. This required that the government took the necessary decisions in autumn 2015 and submitted them to Parliament, and Parliament adopted the laws which provided for the creation of the triple protection. We've secured a lively defense, involving the soldiers, the soldiers, we've made it possible for them to take part in the protection of the border. We have created physical protection, the fence, and we have also strengthened legal protection. This triple protection is still in place, and at the Hungarian-Serbian border the borders of Hungary are protected by a double fence. I would also like to stress that this year, just as last year, this year, and next year, the government will provide the necessary resources for defence and the protection of borders in the budget. The 2022 budget, which is expected to be adopted on 15 June, also provides the necessary resources to protect borders. Honourable Congressman, I would like to confirm, I would like to assure you that Hungary does not back down under pressure from the anti-Migration forces, and we will continue to protect the Hungarians and the borders of the country and the Union. The government insists on a policy supported by the Hungarians and strengthened by the referendum. We do not allow illegal migrants into the country, we protect Hungary's borders. We have been saying since the beginning that immigration must not be managed, but must be stopped. As you said, migration is also on the agenda of the next EU summit. We also think that we need to talk about this, because this is a European problem, one of the European Union's most important, major problems. Our position is firm. We have our allies. We stand in favour of protecting the external borders and reject the mandatory distribution mechanism, as we have done before, from the outset. Whatever the way Brussels is trying to break the unity of the Member States that reject unity, immigration and reject quota, we hope that this attempt will not result. The Government of Hungary will always stand up for the Hungarian people, for the Hungarian country and for the protection of European borders. Thank you very much, Mr President, for addressing this very important issue here in this House's speech before the agenda. I ask the factions, the Fidesz-KDNP faction and all the factions present in Parliament to support the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people and the European Union by voting on the 2022 budget. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear House, We now have a general debate on stricter action against pedophile offenders and on the amendment of certain laws to protect children until closure. Presentation by our colleagues from Máté Kocsis, Gabriella Selmeczi, Alpár Gyopáros, Erik Bánki fideszes, Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/16365. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It has been a week since my colleague Selmeczi and I presented the anti-pedophile package to the Parliament. The submission of the proposal was preceded by months of preparatory work, which was also necessary because it was necessary to find and provide a sufficiently rigorous response to the disturbing, disturbing and shocking events of the past period, and, moreover, to establish rules that fit domestic, EU and international standards. The fact that we have managed to find a thin line along which both conditions can be met, I think, or as a rapporteur, that it is also well demonstrated by some that the proposal is not tough enough, not strict enough, and others say that it is too strict, and that it is not sufficiently careful, for example, to protect the personal data of pedophile offenders, its human dignity, and only to increase the social exclusion of perpetrators. There are therefore opinions still at the end of both positions; I believe that the proposal before you has reached the line, or at least has approached to the greatest extent that is worthy of negotiation here. However, there has also been an argument that the proposal does not actually help the victims, or that there has been no victim treatment, the treatment of the perpetrators, or prevention. As far as I can see, in terms of compliance with the Fundamental Law and the principles of criminal law, and in view of the possibilities that can be included in the system of Hungarian criminal law, we went up to the wall to protect children, as regards sanctions against pedophile offenders. At the same time, I do not dispute that the state, if necessary, will also have to deal with the protection of victims in the next period, but I stress that the proposal before you, as you can see, has a criminal approach, but does not rule out the proposal, nor does it say in a word that it will settle the whole problem. What I would like to say to you is that if we are all doing our job well, then there must be at least one debate on this in the autumn session, but most importantly, another package of laws that will focus more on what we have just said. Personally, as the father of two children, I think that we can act effectively in the protection of children if state, public authority, employment and social control work together. The protection of children is perhaps an area in which there can be the least possible debate and a shared responsibility not only for the state, not only for the parents, but also, ultimately, for all of us who are making a law here, because, as the Hungarian Fundamental Law states, they will be the children who will make Hungary great again with their talents, endurance and spiritual strength. In agreement with this sentence, we have presented our proposal to your attention. The child protection system is multi-level, from the protection provided by criminal law to the employment rules, to information and awareness-raising programmes and the rules applied in child protection care. These, as I said, need to be reviewed and their conformity and effectiveness constantly reviewed. At the same time, our proposal focused on increasing the protection of criminal law and strengthening employment rules. [[10.20]] The reason why we are now focusing primarily on increasing criminal protection is not only due to the most outrageous events mentioned in the past period, but also to the fact that, thanks to the new Btk. in Hungary, the number of sexual crimes is constantly decreasing, unfortunately at the same time, although the number of pedophile crimes committed to harm children has increased slightly. This is not regardless of whether Internet use is spreading or spreading more widely and is not independent of the Internet's filth, it is now sorry for the expression or the spread of dark web areas, where this industry is otherwise flourishing. So this also creates the legislative task. I would like to add a few figures to the calm Parliamentary session this morning. In 2016, 53.5 percent of this type of crime was committed against children. This figure was 61.8 percent in 2020. In 2016, 33 percent of sexually assaulted children were children under 12 years of age. This figure has not changed substantially in 2020 from 33 to 34. What you need to know for the numbers is that every working day in Hungary is a well-known pedophile crime. That's exactly 250-270 more than we need. But it clearly shows that increasing the deterrent effect of the available legislation is our shared responsibility and a task arises precisely because of the aforementioned dark Internet spread. A truly significant increase in pedophile crimes is also seen in child pornography: in 2016, 9 percent of all such crimes were committed. This is in 2026. It's up to 16 percent. I'm here to support my earlier statement. So it is necessary to see that a significant part of these perpetrators are searching, finding, obtaining and spreading this type of content on the Internet. Let us now look at the main elements of the proposal. We claim that pedophiles need to know that from now on, if this law is passed, the crimes they committed will be public for a long, long time, so there is no hiding after such an act has been committed, not on the dark web or anywhere else. By amending the Law on Criminal Records, we will establish a searchable pedophile register of those who committed a sexual offence to harm children, which will enable parents to check suspects or even suspects in their child's vicinity. Our proposal is that this may prevent pedophiles from getting close to children again, if no one else does, the parent will prevent this. Similar records already exist in several countries, including Poland. The Directive on the sexual abuse of children, which was born in 2011, provides for the possibility for Member States to register persons convicted of the offences referred to in the Directive on sex offenders. Therefore, the proposal is not contrary to EU law. After electronic identification, the Hungarian register will be available through the customer gate, and you can search with a name. I'm sure that didn't occur to you, but I've seen one of the press' interpretations that says the search party has access to a full list. No, you can search for a specific name, so not all pedophiles appear to you, but you can get the answer after a specific name has been stamped. Here it is important to avoid misunderstandings because it opens up debates that should not be held otherwise. The parent, other legal guardian or the person raising or supervising the child shall be entitled to seek the data. It is necessary to indicate the legal basis for the data request in the course of the data request, and the data that the data seeker has access to may be handled in a targeted way to ensure the protection of children, to prevent offences against children and to control persons in contact with children. The perpetrators can be identified by the narrowest range of data needed to identify them: name, year of birth, address at settlement level, photograph and data relating to the crime, time and content, as appropriate. The number of requests for data is not limited. It is a guarantee that juvenile offenders are not included in the register. Perhaps I should mention that, in fact, an existing criminal record has access to the data seeker. This register still exists, but it is not available to the public. We open a segment of this existing criminal record, in which the person who is entitled to do so or who is entitled to search. At the same time, a person who has previously committed a pedophile crime shall be entered in the register and entered in it until the statutory period after discharge has passed, but no later than 12 years from the date of exemption. That's a very long time. We think that with the Congresswoman, my colleague Selmeczi, we have tabled the proposal that if someone has committed a crime earlier, because the question has been raised here, too, that he is correct in including former paedophile offenders, we believe that anyone who has committed a previous crime, say, 4-5-6, even 10 years ago, could potentially pose a threat to children as a pedophile perpetrator. That is why, although it may arise in the debate that this is not a good rule, we will insist on this. A further guarantee is that data that you have learned through the interface can only be used to protect children and can be made available to third parties from the same point of view. Data learned through the interface shall not be copied or screenshots according to the criminal record system, nor shall they be made public, registered, or misused in violation of these rules, and may be dealt with in accordance with the current legal rules. So what I have to say to you here is that from the point of view of the state, it must be the goal of a crime, otherwise an infinitely disgusting or reprehensible pedophile crime, it is not good for three other crimes to follow. So violence, vigilanteism, and any other kind of anger against it, which, by the way, is emotionally justified or understandable, or to put it this way, so I think that anyone who hears such a story as a parent should have a right to have a fist, let's leave it at that, but the state must also take care that we, legislators, do not give it any extra space. We already have enough veganity, and we believe that pedophiles can no longer remain hidden from society, and that if they try to get close to children, they will turn up on the basis of a search by name, not to mention the other consequences, which are found in the rest of our presentation. [[10.30]] The tightening of the criminal code, for that matter, is another area that we have put forward. From now on, those who produce, distribute or use child pornography should prepare for the worst in the coherent system of Hungarian criminal law. Then, in certain classified cases of child pornography, for example, if this crime is committed using violence or abuse against a person under 12 years of age, the perpetrator's actions will be treated in the same way as manslaughter, i.e. he may be given 20 years without parole in the meantime, since this is also excluded from our proposal. We're introducing new classified cases. I consider this part of our proposal to be important because, surprisingly, child pornography has only had one qualified case so far, and this is if it has been abused by power or influence. We therefore propose four other classified cases to this House: one would be to be committed to the injury of a person under the age of 12; the other would be to commit it as an official, as did Gábor Kaleta; the third would be to commit abuse or violence; the fourth would be to commit it as a particular repulsion. I would like to note here that either my fellow Member György Szilágyi or my fellow Member Balázs Ander, although it is true that several proposals were tabled on this subject even ten years ago, they were proposals for a resolution, and I say that a proposal for a resolution does not solve the problem, merely calls on the government to create the necessary legislation now. As far as the concrete proposal that my fellow Member Ander has submitted is concerned, there is no doubt that he has tightened up the penalty points before, but he would not have introduced the new classified cases mentioned above, and without the cases of criminal deterrents which have been designated as the legal basis for the most serious penalty, his deterrent power is much weaker. Our current proposal combines the two, making the amendment at both tightening points. Returning briefly to the bill, the most serious paedophile crimes are still under way, due to one of Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi's proposals earlier. In the case of the milder, however, it is a change that the statute of limitations starts from the age of 21 instead of the age of 18, which means that we ensure that children in vulnerable situations can be held accountable for more time. Obviously, it is a matter of complicated, personal, often family or power, influence relationships, where it is important to consider that, despite the fact that the injured person is 18 years of age, he is not in a position to resort to any form of addiction to retaliation for his injury. So pushing this up to the age of 21 is, in our view, a good opportunity for those who want to give a legal type of answer to their harm. I have already mentioned, I repeat myself now: it is not possible to grant conditional leave under the proposal, who has been sentenced to prison for 8 years or more of child pornographic offenses committed to harm a child, and who will be subject to mandatory protective custody in the future, who has been sentenced to prison for pornographic crimes committed against a child. A new classified case of harassment will be a crime committed by a person 18 years of age to harm a child. This is also a new element, it is surprising that it has not been part of our legal system so far. But speaking of so far our legislation, there were areas in the field of employment, such as health care or education, where there was an employment ban for pedophiles, but the proposal further expands their scope. Pedophile offenders are no longer allowed to work in children's sightseeing, leisure, entertainment, sporting work, i.e. beach, amusement park, zoo, sports club. So, in my view, the chances of getting close to a minor are reduced by pedophile offenders, which are otherwise prohibited by occupational rules. Furthermore, perpetrators of these crimes may neither establish a government service nor assume political leadership. This pass, I suppose, doesn't have to be overexplained here, let's consider it a minimum expectation. In addition to what has been summarised so far, the bill intends to contribute to increasing the protection of children, for example by amending the rules on the functioning of the Internet Round Table for Child Protection established in 2013. I'm telling you that this body would have more significance than what we're thinking now, or perhaps what they're thinking. I think at this age, the responsibility of the organization that operates under the name Child Protection Internet Round Table has grown brutally. Back to the beginning of my expo for a moment: one of the most important areas of the problem, one of the most important areas of pedophile crime, is the Internet itself. We have already mentioned that there is, of course, a great responsibility for the service provider, the state, the parent, for many people, but if we want to synthesize these responsibilities or these intentions, then the operation of the Internet Round Table for Child Protection is indecently low, I think it should be given a much greater role. The law on infringements is also amended, and I would not comment on this here in essence, you can learn about it by studying the proposal, and there are a number of points that make our current proposal coherent in the legal system. So, assuming, presumably, that you have come to know the material that we have tabled, I would like to ask you to support the amendment that we have tabled. This is a great opportunity for us to work together so that pedophile offenders can never escape their actions with small risks, slight consequences, and to make sure that children are protected as much as possible. We will try to be at your disposal in the debate and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Now, I ask you, on behalf of the government, there is one of the Secretary of State who wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports the package of laws on the protection of children and also calls on Members to take an active part in the debate and then vote in favour of this. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Pedophilia is the name of a terrible crime that is difficult to comprehend, a crime that terrifies more than 90 percent of Hungarian society. [[10.40]] Of all the crimes that exist, sexually assaulting minors is the most disgusting, bestial acts, since they are almost always defenseless young children whose lives change fundamentally as a result of the crime, because of what happened, they are not or are very difficult to open up to others or trust anyone. Pedophile predators also despise society because they hurt children by gaining their trust and then taking advantage of this trust situation, they abuse it. It's no coincidence they're at the bottom of the food chain when they're in prison, so the other prisoners despise pedophiles. Let me say a few words about the history, because yesterday at the committee meeting, DK's representative accused us of campaigning for elections. Ladies and gentlemen, Our package of proposals, presented by Mr Máté Kocsis, is the next milestone of a continuous mission to protect and guarantee the safety of children. In 2013, we have already ensured that pedophiles are not allowed to engage in activities related to the education, supervision, care and treatment of children, and since 2014, there has been no limitation on more serious pedophile offences. Then, in 2017, we made it mandatory for judges to ban the profession in the event that a person was convicted of a pedophile crime; and at the same time, we also tightened the penalty for sexual assault on children under 12 years of age. We have repeatedly amended not only Btk., but also other laws dealing with child protection. These were just a few examples of the fact that, although criminals are often ahead of law enforcement, we, as legislators, are doing everything we can to protect children. I would like to list our principles. First of all, pedophiles can't hide, can't hope to hide. Secondly, they cannot believe that they will get away with it, and there will be consequences if they touch the children with just one finger. Third, zero chance of a pedophile ever getting near a child again. Fourthly, I believe there is zero tolerance for pedophiles from the whole society, so there is no rescue. Pedophilia is a crime, nothing more than the nasty kind. Fifth, the paedophile crime will not be over, the unsub's head will remain dependent on Damocles' sword for the rest of his life; he who descends into the dark world of pedophilia cannot get away with it sooner than later, but law enforcement will catch up with him and he will be punished. I would also like to talk about the bill, the package, and highlight parts of it. I would like to talk about three major areas: one is the paedophile list; the other is the occupations, the bans; and one is the criminal code itself, the tightening of lots. The changes to the so-called pedophile list are as follows. First of all, let's look at who can look into the register, right, this is the almost most common question: the child's relative, their education, their care, their supervision, and the other caregivers. Then you have to make a statement when you look at it, that it is necessary to get to know the data to protect the child. And it is necessary to indicate the family and first name of the person to whom the data recognition request applies. What do we learn from this record? First of all, the person we're asking about was convicted of a pedophile crime. If so, we can see your photo, your local address and the crime you committed. I think it is important to mention, like Mr Máté Kocsis, that we do not limit the number of queries. The second major area of the amendment is amendments relating to the permanent ban on occupation. Among the principles, I have already mentioned the ambition that if someone has been convicted once, so we know that he is a paedophile, then he should not be able to work in a future workplace where he can get close to children again. Therefore, the existing bans have been extended to include: pedophiles should not work in leisure, entertainment, sports workplaces such as beaches, amusement parks, zoos, sports clubs. This will significantly reduce the chances of them ever getting close to minors again. I would also like to point out here that the perpetrators of these crimes cannot establish a government service. The Btk. I would like to highlight the re-regulation of the facts of child pornography, both in the case of pornographic recording and in the case of pornographic programmes, as Mr. Group leader said. So just in short: to the harm of under 12 years, as an official person, by portraying distressing or violence and as a strange repulsive; these new qualifying factors, i.e. plus four qualifying factors, come in next to the existing one. Pornographic recording becomes one of the most serious criminal acts. This is because this is where the pedophile gets the most direct contact with the child. Here, instead of the current 1-5 years, it will be punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-15 years if a person takes pornographic footage of a child under 12 years of age or commits it as an official. Similarly, if you place, trade, and disclose pornographic images of children under the age of 12, you will also be punished for up to 15 years. Our proposal also creates a super-qualified case, in which, if the previous two acts are distressing, the penalty limit is 20 years, which exceeds the sentence of manslaughter. Mr. Máté Kocsis, Group leader, we consider this to be a very important amendment and to compare manslaughter to the punishment of a crime. For organizing a child pornographic program or performing a child under 12 years of age, the perpetrator may also be sentenced to 5-15 years in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent times, we have also experienced great indignation by imposing a suspended sentence for a paedophile crime. In our proposal, we increase the lower limit of the sentence by not getting suspended most of the time when paedophile crimes are committed, as the current Btk. he says that if the sentence imposed exceeds two years, the execution of the sentence can no longer be suspended. It is very important what we have included in the package of laws, the exclusion of conditional release in the following cases. Our proposal excludes from the possibility of conditional release those sentenced to imprisonment for sexual offences under the age of 18 and threatened with imprisonment of eight years or more. So you have to settle the sentence, no parole. Ladies and gentlemen, You must know the expression "sugar man." Pedophiles who commit sexual crimes are usually kind, flattered, that's their basic nature, so they gain confidence in children. When they enter the prison, they are almost without exception said by professionals, each one has good behavior, and because of this, they were often released on parole. That is why we have held it important to highlight and include this tightening up: anyone who receives more than eight years of judgment must be punished. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to note that, under the current rules, if a sexual offence committed under the age of 18 is punishable more than five years of imprisonment, the crime will never lapse. This has been the case since 2014. Since 2014, no more than five years of imprisonment, the duration of the limitation period until the victim reaches the age of 18 is not counted in the event of a criminal offence which is not more serious than five years of imprisonment. Mr Máté Kocsis's recommendation is that in the case of sexual crimes which are not more serious than five years of imprisonment, the limitation period should be calculated not from the age of 18 but from the age of 21, so that the crime should not lapse before the age of 26 in the case of the mildest crime. Ladies and gentlemen, We see that there are international experiments to make pedophilia socially acceptable, and they begin to sensitize society towards pedophilia. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai is shaking his head.]] There is a Western European country... let's take it seriously, my fellow Member. There are countries in Western Europe where two paedophiles have been registered. Experiments are therefore being made at certain points in Western Europe to make pedophilia acceptable, and the consequence of this should be that there is no criminalisation of pedophilia. Ladies and gentlemen, We agree that pedophilia is a crime, it must be punished rigorously, everything must be done to prevent crime, and everything must be done to prevent and prevent the second and next pedophile crime. We tell the pedophiles that zero tolerance is not allowed to harm our children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Better late than never. We will support all the tightening ups from start to finish. However, it would have been a little more credible if you had listened to the proposals that we have presented to you not only now, as the campaign approaches, but in a consistent, cycle-wide way, from 2010. 2010-11, 2012, at the time of the adoption of the new Criminal Code, and then 2016-17, and let me correct Mr. Group leader, it was not only a proposal for a resolution, but what I said last time was a bill. I wrote out his number quickly, because let us not know by heart that our heads are not numb: T/10757. The proposal was submitted to you on 18 May 2016. The fact is that this was even more stringent, let's say, in terms of registration, as opposed to what was rightly brought before us now, because we would have put this public register on all crimes against gender freedom and gender morality. Therefore, let us ask you how honest this is for you. We hope, yes, we will give you the confidence that it is, but it would have been better to avoid it, so let me put it this way, perhaps not so sharp, it would have been better to avoid the appearance that it would be brought here now, indeed, if it were to be a kind of campaign theme, using it for political gain. You mentioned the name of Gábor Kaleta, Mr. Group Leader. The thing is, they did everything they could to get the Kaleta case smeared. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Me?]] For ten years, the matter was classified, and in vain, Congresswoman Demeter asked for it, and everyone in the opposition's benches at all, not to hide it, it was somehow deaf to you. In fact! Let me refer to a speech I made last summer, which was precisely about no mercy to pedophile monsters, not to those close to NER. I don't want to criticize the sitting, especially not the current one, but, on the record, the chairman of that time said that I could have raised my style. I wasn't thinking of getting any higher in my style with that walking monster. I didn't say anything, I looked at the records on purpose again, and there was only so much that I could read on my head here, that I said that I didn't think there was any one of us who would have shed a single tear about rotting in a prison in Lima, Gábor Kaleta, and that he had the guts to appeal to the otherwise ridiculously mild judgment. He escaped with a fine of HUF 500,000 and a suspended sentence. Allow me, fellow Members, in the pro-government benches, if, let us say, they do not get involved in such things or give the impression that they are trying to smear these things, then obviously we do not bring this up. I will now add again and again, and a few times during my speech: we support everything that has been brought here, we can fully agree with such restrictions. As a conservative right-wing party, Jobbik is on the side of order, the innocent victims, the Hungarian citizens, the defenseless, and if they can be protected by these billings, and we can save even one innocent victim from the life-long trauma that can befall them through such aberrated animals, then we say that we will support this. That's what we've been saying, and we're still gonna do it. One more thing. Our colleague Hollik, from the benches of KDNP in 2016, when we proposed tightening up and looking for a register against the perpetrators of sexual crimes, he said, and I quote, "We believe that the current legislative environment gives the right power against the perpetrators of such crimes, and therefore they will not support Jobbik's motion. It has now come to light, because it has come before us that the legislative environment has not given us enough strength. Then at least admit it. And we will very strongly support these proposals with full breast width. By the way, I myself told the Justice Committee at the beginning of March 2021, when I argued in favour of our three-point package of proposals that we would not make party policy out of this, come on, present it, if necessary, under their own logo, and we will vote for them, because this is what the truth demands, which is the protection of the victims. Hypocrisy, let me tell you, is more your kind of genre than ours. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] So once we have said that we will support this, we will. That is precisely why, my fellow Member, I have quoted from your fellow Member, Mr Hollik, those words, the few sentences, to highlight the fact that there has been some problem with your attitude in this regard. We will support the establishment of this register, and we will support the substantial tightening of penalties. If Máté Kocsis has suggested that their proposal is even more stringent than ours in this regard, then we say go ahead and do it, we will support it. Yes, it is very right to tighten employment rules as well. There's a non-focused area of all this, the Children's Protection Internet Round Table, which is really a very important thing. It may not be so spectacular, it cannot be talked about with such a temper, but it is an incredibly important element of this whole issue, so it is perfectly natural for Jobbik to have the vote in this regard as well. If, where appropriate, someone says that strict privacy and privacy rules at home make these things difficult, we are not interested in them, let them. The fact is that the protection of victims and the rights of victims are a thousand times higher than those of these bastards, Mr. President. [[11.00]] That's what we're gonna do. In addition, there is an EU directive 2011/93 in this context, which gives other democratic and Western countries the opportunity to create this register, in a way similar to that of European countries. By the way, we say that this should be as broad as possible, the more people are able to access it, and when it comes to data, a set of much broader data should be included. We're talking about the victims, and it's very important to talk about the victims. I have already made a detour here first about the fact that our proposal for 2016 not only affected children, but also the victims of all sexual crimes. In particular, think of women; women who, according to some surveys, are forced to meet sexual violence in some 20 percent of their lives. One in ten of these will be presented to the police, and then, in each of the cases, the verdict will again be another and a very tragic, very sad story. One in five victims, at least according to these surveys, are underage; they will be traumatized for the rest of their lives. According to a survey by the Hintalovon Foundation, most of the victims of sexual trafficking in human beings in Europe come from Hungary. Highly at risk for cumulative underprivileged people [[Máté Kocsis: Romania.]] People living in extreme poverty, caregivers of the state and children of gypsy origin. Obviously, there's a lot of overlap between cumulatively disadvantaged situations here. If you look at it, on a European scale, about 64 percent of these 50 percent, who are thus victims of sexual trafficking from Hungary, are young or childhood victims, and even all 13 of them have not reached the age of 11. It is these children, and then not only in Thailand, but also in South America, but also within Europe, of whom these aberrant figures take photographs, their rape, their zeal, their torture, so that their like-haired companions can enjoy it. And yes, it is very important that so-called users are also punished, because their sickly demand creates the terrible market for all of this, which really needs to be abolished. So, there is, and there was a problem, according to these surveys, too. The fact that they didn't include our proposals, I'm telling you, let's have one thing, it's finally turned up. In the case of the Kaleta case, the judge said that he had no opportunity or that the court had no opportunity to impose a more severe penalty. By the way, if you had accepted our previous proposals, you would have had this more stringent opportunity and could not have gotten away with it. Fellow Members! This story went on for years. What we have seen is that the essential things that are very important to you, if necessary, have been trampled through Parliament in one day; let us think, let us say, of killing housing savings banks. So if something is important to you, then you can carry it through without social, professional and political consultation, quickly, and that's why I'm referring to our earlier proposals, because we're saying that we shouldn't have dragged it so far. It would have been possible to intervene much earlier, especially if we had seen the magnitude of the visions of huge numbers, horrific numbers were spoken of by experts, it could have been 100 times higher in these cases, and the rate of relapses is also terrifying. The victims often feel... here they said yes, that this will have to be improved, and later, in the fall, victim protection can also be found. Believe me, we're not gonna let this go, because victim protection, when these unfortunate women or children feel like they're victims of some kind of institutional betrayal, is a very important thing. The strengthening of community gatekeepers would also be such a step, for example, when it comes to children, school social work, the greatest number of school social teachers in these institutions, perhaps a guarantee that these cases will come to light, and if as many of these cases as possible, this may also have a deterrent effect. My fellow Members, look at the budget amendment that would otherwise double the amount of state aid to be spent on school social work by a few billion forints. This huge budget amount, in this framework, would be a grain of dust, nothing. And if you want, you can prove, say, by accepting that, yes, this segment is very important to you in this story. 'Cause, by the way, it's the kids that need to be dealt with. We believe we're very modern, cognitive and psychotherapy, but let's focus on the victim first. And anyone who does these terrible things will be punished for what he deserves. But then and there is another element of our package of proposals that really deserves the long-term years behind bars, where, as the congresswoman said, the other criminals, who are still with a natural sense of justice, will be given the treatment that such a pedophile monster deserves. But he's gonna get out of there sometime, behind bars, if he can't be held there for the rest of his life. Then not only would registration be such a deterrent force, and public searchability, but also, for example, in connection with sexual offenders, chemical castration, or if someone's sensitive ear is upset by it, and not comme il faut this term, then we can feel free to use it for drug treatment. In addition to the terrible crime of pedophilia and similar crimes, it is actually also a disease that, if not cured, may be treated with this. I'm not interested in the personal rights of the perpetrators, I'll tell you again, standing on the side of the victims, we're just looking at how much a step like this can bring down the proportion of relapsers, and there are surveys for that. From Scandinavia, from here to here... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, and I will continue then. Thank you.
u2021-06-01-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-37	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, First of all, allow me to thank Mr Máté Kocsis for his work and my fellow Member Gabriella Selmeczi on this subject, that we can discuss this bill here today, and I could join him as a rapporteur, because it is a very important bill, because it must be said together that it has been enough. Enough of the anonymity of these criminals, enough of the ridiculously mild court judgments that we also have, and we respect the judgments of the court, but I think it is right for us to give a political opinion on it. This is possible within the framework of a rule of law and respecting the institution of freedom of expression to say, as we said before, last year and several times before, if a judgment was not only on this issue, but it was ridiculously mild compared to the crime. We see that in all other cases the number of registered offences in Hungary has decreased significantly. So while during the Gyurcsány government, the number of registered crimes committed in one year was more than 420-430,000, it is now well below 200,000 in the years 2020-21. I think it's a step forward. What is the result of this progress? That, more than once, we have tightened the penal code not twice, that we have introduced dissuasive sentences, deterrent penalties before the legislation, and that the Hungarian Parliament has adopted us. The number of registered crimes in Hungary has decreased, thanks to the constant and consistent support of strict criminal policy and, of course, the excellent work done by the Hungarian law enforcement and law enforcement agencies, which has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of registered offences. We see that in Hungary judicial practice is that the most common punishment in paedophiles is suspended imprisonment; this can be statistically demonstrated. [[11.10]] From now on, the tightening up that my fellow Members and I have brought to the Parliament is absolutely justified, that these sentences must indeed be tightened up. I would argue with one thing from the speech by my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, because in his speech the unsuspecting students felt as if nothing had happened on this subject in the last ten years within the framework of the Parliament, which is of course not true. In broad terms, without the need for completeness, I have also collected what has happened since 2010 in order to protect children. We have ensured that those who commit serious crimes to harm children should not carry out activities related to the education, supervision, care or treatment of children under a law adopted in 2013. In the case of serious crimes against children, in particular sexual crimes, we have provided for their non-juvenation and the statute of limitations adopted in 2014. Gradually, we have introduced a ban on permanent employment for those who committed sex crimes against children in the 2017 law. We have tightened the penalty for sexual activity with a person under 12 years of age, also in 2017. We further tightened the employment ban in 2018; in 2020 the situation of trafficking in human beings was amended and penalties were raised for sexual crimes against children last year. And also last year, in 2020, we tightened the principles of punishment for the violent crime against the person who has been harmed by the relative. Without the need for completeness, these are the decisions taken in order to protect children and criminal law that the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP government and Fidesz-KDNP have presented to the Parliament in recent years. So it is not true that nothing has happened in this regard in recent years. Punishments were constantly tightened, new facts were constantly introduced. And here we are, in the current bill, to end the practice of pedophile offenders remaining anonymous, hiding behind society, and not revealing their identity. We will put an end to the short deadlines in the statute of limitations that were previously imposed and that the child should not be allowed to act until the age of 21. We will put an end to the fact that there have been very few classified cases; and we will put an end to the fact that if a person commits such a nasty crime as an official, he or she will be fined or fined lightly. Hungary's Fundamental Law also declares that Hungary protects children by special measures, and that every child has the right to the protection and care necessary for its proper physical, mental and moral development. When we discuss this bill here, and when I hope that we will adopt this bill with the full support of the Parliament, we will fulfil our obligation as described in the Fundamental Law of Hungary. This was also recorded in the last amendment to the Fundamental Law, which you also did not support, that Hungary defends the right to self-identify the child's birth sex and ensures that the education is based on the values of our country's constitutional identity and Christian culture. By amending the Fundamental Law, the constitutionalist continued to impose an institutional protection obligation on the State, i.e. the legislator must establish a legal environment and fundamental rules guaranteeing the preservation and preservation of the child's unalterable identity from birth. In many cases, we have targeted the greater protection of children through our legislative proposals, because our family policy is based on giving children all the opportunities, security, physical-spiritual and spiritual security, and of course, in the case we are discussing here, we must act as harshly as possible against mean and disgusting crimes, actions for which I think that all well-hungry people must say the strongest and loudest sex for these crimes. As a father of three, I am also deeply touched by the media, whether international examples or domestic cases, when such disgusting, nasty and vile crimes are committed to harm children. My fellow Members have already talked about what the bill contains in particular, what the new classified cases will be, how to create a searchable pedophile register, as it does in several countries. This was the first point that the left-wing press questioned in order that there was even a deterrent, the usefulness of the searchable pedophile register. The left-wing press attacked and immediately began to question the effectiveness of these measures. Yesterday, we voted in the Committee on Welfare for the People's Welfare, and it seems to be a technical matter that the People's Welfare Committee, because it was not the first-placed committee of this law that belonged to the Judicial Committee, discusses the detailed discussion of this bill, since, as a family committee, the family committee, we are obviously concerned with this issue. Therefore, the Welfare Committee also decided to discuss this bill as a negotiating committee in the detailed debate. The MEPs then voted for this, with one exception: the DK Varga Zoltán did not vote for it... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] He didn't vote for it... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He didn't vote...]] So you didn't vote [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't lie, Congressman.]] He didn't raise his hand... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He didn't raise his hand in the yes, no abstention, no vote. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying, Congressman.]] He was in the room voting for everything else, didn't vote for that proposal...
u2021-06-01-38	Congresswoman! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: But you're lying!]] Congresswoman, how do you speak? ! Well, you won't be able to say your speech if I shut you down. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Then ban me.]] Why are you doing this? Don't do it!
u2021-06-01-39	So you were in the room and you didn't vote for it. It would be against the fact that I lied to you that you voted for it, but you didn't vote for it. So these are the two options: you voted in favour or you did not vote in favour, Congresswoman, and you did not vote in favour. The fact is that, of course, the left-wing press started on the subject, and we can see how certain left-wing propaganda funds and organisations supported by György Soros tried to disincentive the question and how they tried to ask unsettling questions. We see that in the international media on the left, this started earlier in 2014, when the New York Times wrote in its editorial: pedophilia is not a crime, it is a disorder. This was followed by a series of Hungarian propaganda publications on the left. In 2014, the former newspaper of the Communist Party, Népszabadság wrote an article about the pedophile being a human. In a sensitive article, pedophiles were protected through multiple pages. Then the other left-wing press organisations continued. On HVG there was writing about: pedophilia is not a criminal act, nor should it be a criminal act. It's your press, ladies and gentlemen. Now in the People's Word, the SAO says that the rights to information self-determination should be borne in mind in such a searchable register. So wait a minute, fellow Members. Let us not refer to the right of information self-determination in the perpetrators of such vile crimes. This is in particular the same left-wing liberal tempo as when the UN attacked child-saving anonymous incubators on the grounds that they cannot be accommodated in children who are unable to bear their child, but who at least gave birth, should not have children in them because the child's right to know his parents is violated. Do you understand? So it's above life. When we confront life with human rights, it comes out of it such freaks, such freaks as we read here in the articles. And I hope that my left-wing fellow Members, especially LMP, will support this bill despite the fact that they are collapsing with Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a figure of green life on the left of Europe, who has written about similar issues in his own book, which I would not quote to the House because of his obsceneness, but I think we have all heard about these horrors. So I hope that, despite all friendship and loyalty, left-wing Members will also support this bill, even if they have allies on the European stage who are somehow involved in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't get away with a mild sentence, and you can't get out of such a nasty crime with parole in classified cases. Children's protection is the first, and we have seen in the last ten years no matter how many of you have fought it, many of you have had the result of strict criminal policy. By tightening sentences, introducing new classified cases, it is possible to deter perpetrators from thinking about it, because they will have a red stamp on their foreheads all their lives, which I think will leave a mark for their entire lives, otherwise rightly, to deter them from ever, in any way, thinking of children with that intention. [[11.20]] And never in any way dare to take action in this area, but it is our goal in relation to these cases that we have seen, and a very large part of which have been escalated by the spread, spread, and the growth of the dark web in recent years, we see precisely the result of this phenomenon, that some experts now believe that the dark web is greater than the size of the public web, and in what way they move into illegality, and what size, inhuman amounts of child pornography, images, videos are found in these places, I think that we have international responsibility here. Hungary has also participated in a number of Europol and other investigations where we have managed to eliminate such servers, such data centres, such networks; and we do think that in these cases we should always act with the utmost rigour, and that as much attention should be paid as possible to catching up with these distributors, dividers and various distributors as soon as possible to the full rigour of the law. And, as my fellow Members have indicated, we will be discussing this more in the autumn, we did not think of putting the victim protection part into the criminal code restrictions, we will have to speak on the victim protection side, and I think we will have a lot to talk about separately, and we will not only talk about it, but we will also use legislative proposals. This will happen in the near future. I ask you to support the more stringent action, to support the fact that in Hungary the laws of this country apply here, and here they apply, to the greatest extent possible, to deter vile offenders from all kinds of pedophile acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nacsa spoke about the fact that, again, the left does not want to support something, although, if I understand correctly, the opposition representatives who have spoken have spoken about it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] to support this initiative. For our part, we have always said that we support initiatives of this type. Máté Kocsis also talked about not making a party political issue out of this, but my fellow Member Nacsa did nothing but make a party political issue out of it. In the beginning, he told me what the headline should be, because I do not know who is already attacking this initiative from the left-wing press. Look, Congressman, I didn't mean to say this in this spirit, but if you're going to do this, I'm going to have to approach this a little bit from this perspective. You said that was enough. He said that children's protection comes first. Wasn't it last year? Five years ago, didn't you? Ten years ago, it wasn't like that? Last year, we submitted a draft parliamentary resolution with MEP László Szakács next to me in July, which said that such a register should be introduced so that anyone who performs a public service should be a qualified factor, so that it should be more stringent in Hungarian in the case of a person carrying out a public service if a person commits such a crime. We said that such a person should not be exempt from the legal consequences. So what you are talking about here today, a year later, was already mentioned in a draft parliamentary resolution last July. Not to mention what my fellow Member Ander has already said about how many proposals they have made over the past ten years that could have dealt with this issue much earlier. Therefore, with due respect, I would have expected a minimum self-criticism on the part of the governing parties if they could not at least mention that this situation has worsened in the last ten years. The fact that Hungary received the worst rating on the basis of an international rating in 2017 was the worst rating in this respect, and this was the worst rating for several years until 2020. What has been said is that there has been an increase in the number of crimes committed to harm children, that a significant proportion of sexually-containing crimes in Hungary and even within the European Union are significantly high. So I think that there should be a place for self-criticism, a little place for them to be modest rather than trying to turn this issue into a prognosis of success. The other is that they say that law enforcement is doing their job well: it is enough to remember only Gábor Kaleta, mentioned by you, for whom no Hungarian law enforcement agency has discovered that this man is a pedophile. Foreign services have informed the Hungarian services that this man has a problem, while this man has been vetted several times by the Constitutional Protection Office through national security screening. It seems to me that this is a problem elsewhere, and it would be worth your while, since the last time the Ambassador of Bangkok had to be ordered home, because he had an inappropriate attitude to the ambassador. I'm guessing it wasn't like he was drinking beer somewhere after 11:00 when it was only till 10:00, but it was something else that wasn't worthy of an ambassador. There seems to be something in the air, I don't know, a systemic problem with this question, because it hasn't been able to land before. So I think what I see is that if it weren't for the Kaleta case and it hadn't been made public, then, yes, there wouldn't be this current package of laws on the table today. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: It's not true!]] Congresswoman! Of course it's true. We didn't say anything until the Kaleta case to deal with this. In fact, you know what they said? They said we'd have this package of laws by September last year! In fact, even a month ago, I asked the Minister of Justice here, in the House, when it would become something; she could not say! You were sitting right where you were, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] He couldn't tell me a month ago! Stop acting like you wanted to do this in eternal life, because you've been in government for 11 years, so you could've done it before. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I just told you what we're doing! Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi repeatedly intervenes.]] Not to mention that five of the eleven amendments have nothing to do with our current subject in the same world, and we are still listening to you, and then in September! Then we'll talk about this a lot more. Other times, they rewrite an entire economic sector in one night! Now, interestingly, they've been fighting this for a year, and the Prime Minister promised it last September. He said that a comprehensive package of programmes would be brought in by autumn. They didn't bring him in. Now they've brought in some of this, I've been promised a complex solution, it's not a complex solution, you've acknowledged that, and we'll talk about it again in September, in six months. The Attorney General told me to be patient. Please, I'd be patient, but the children against whom such crimes are committed cannot be patient. They expect immediate action from the ruling majority and legislators and law enforcement agencies. That is why I think that we have failed to achieve the goal which we have set ourselves, because they have failed to reach a complex solution to this issue, and even in September they will want to bring in new legislative amendments so that we can continue to deal with this issue. I think the civilians have put a lot of sensible and good suggestions on the table, reading through various backgrounds, opinions about the law itself. I think that there are a number of forward-looking proposals for Hungarian civil society organisations that should be dealt with more seriously, and, of course, strict punishment is important, but the effectiveness of detection is equally important, and the issue of prevention or post-traumatic treatment is equally important, and in this respect, I would have expected more from the current draft law than simply that it approaches this issue from the criminal side. Therefore, I ask you not to waste time on this issue, but to speed up this legislative work a little, and not always ask the victims and everyone else in this area to be patient, but to act as quickly as possible and to deal with this issue in a complex way. Yeah, I'm pretty sure there are people who are criticizing this proposal right now, and I'm pretty sure there are people who are worried about pedophiles' personal rights on it, that's their job! And it's our job to know what laws, what rules they're making here in Parliament. [[11.30]] I also think that, at the moment, the victims are more important than the personal rights of pedophiles, even though it may sound a little weird for a legislator. But it is a fact and it is true that if this problem has not already been dealt with in a complex way in such a way as to be sufficiently deterrent; so that there is sufficient preventive capacity and that the victims are actually being treated as victims and helped, at least if progress can be achieved in a sub-area, even if I think the solution is not as complex, not as fantastic as you have presented it here, regardless of which I myself and the MSZP faction will certainly support this amendment, despite all shortcomings and difficulties. But I would also like to point out, Congressman, that you are moving faster. Do not have to wait for these children to get help from the legislative side, but to take the steps that civil society or opposition representatives have been saying and demanding for years, because this is exactly the area in which we will agree. Perhaps Congresswoman Selmeczi said that more than 90 percent of the population condemn him; I very much hope that he was wrong, and 100 percent of the population condemn this type of crime. That is precisely because it is one of the most nasty crimes that can be committed, which is why, for your part, you are the majority, and in a two-thirds majority, you should move much faster than that. And you do not only have to respond to public pressure when it turns out in a Kaleta case that you did not do your job properly, or that your supervised bodies did not do their job properly when you want to hide this from the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you need a journalist to get this thing out in the open at all. I think that this subject is worth much more than just making a party political debate out of it. But I would urge you, in any case, to move forward much faster in legislation, and not to create another committee, but to abide by what the Prime Minister himself has promised and to keep the deadlines, because without it, these children will certainly be in much greater danger, as only the increase in the penalty will not hold the pedophiles back with certainty, as in other cases. So it is very important that the complex solution is to sum up that we, for our part, will support this bill, but do not delay any further steps, because many children will suffer the cost of this delay. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2021-06-01-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At times it was every month, every two days, and then every day it was depraved. He tied me up several times and locked me in a room. I had dreams, desires, plans, and then they dragged me out into the dark reality. A man who was now an adult declared this about his stepfather in 2018, who had sexually abused him for years, yet the Church County of Székesfehérvár employed him as a teacher of faith. The man then suspected in one of his classes that he was trying to force a 9-year-old and a 7-year-old girl to commit lewdness. In 2017, parents in Szentmiklós who sexually harassed their own minor children were sentenced to 13 years of detention. At the beginning of September 2016, a child-home boy threw himself in front of the train in Bicsk. The next day, a friend of his went to the police and filed a sexual harassment report following a program called RTL Club Out of House, according to which the director of the Kossuth Zsuzsa Children's Home in Bicske has sexually harassed the vulnerable boys in the children's home for decades. 2015. He was legally sentenced to a suspended sentence of one and a half years and for five years he banned from the teaching profession the 36-year-old priest-teacher who tried to approach two students at the Piarista School in Nagykanizsa for sexual purposes. Anyone who has observed the speeches and suggestions I have made in recent years regarding the protection of children and against pedophile crimes, and perhaps the State Secretary sitting here, in particular, are not unfamiliar with these sentences. I have already given these examples in my speech before the agenda on 25 November 2019, mainly because I have already submitted a proposal to the Parliament much earlier in 2016, in order to draw up the list that the pro-government representatives are now talking about together. Let us find a way to create a list of sexual offenders, which is also available on the Internet, which allows Hungarian citizens to look for offenders in such cases and to take the necessary precautions. Of course, we also submitted this parliamentary decision at the time, in 2016, beyond the list, so that it is clear in the case of persons who contact minors and children who never contact children. At the committee meeting, I was told that the Hungarian address register was not accurate. At the committee meeting, I was told by the pro-government representatives that the view of the killer and the paedophile is the same from a data protection point of view, and that this cannot be done. In 2016, but long before that, many of us in this Parliament, but since 2016 we have been trying to try to achieve the so-called Megan list in some way, even if it is half a Megan list, in some way in Hungary. I welcome the fact that from 2016 to this day, the pro-government representatives have come to the point that we are actually right, and we need to act on this. And the important thing is not that we are right, but that the important thing is that they realized that the quotes that I read and the terrible crimes that have been committed there might not have happened if they had listened to us then. Because every minute that Parliament delays in the grave punishment of crimes of this and similar types of child abuse is a threat to society. When I said my speech before the agenda, then the representative of the Ministry of Justice, who was present at the time, called us everything from the wrecking coalition, but he did not deal with the matter in substance. And that's not a problem, Mr. Secretary, because you insulted me, because I don't care, but because these children and the children that have been in the newspapers since then, in the news, have caused incredible pain by not being able to decide for political or other reasons, and you will not be able to deal with this issue in substance. In fact, my fellow Member Mesterházy is right, we do not see into your legislative sorcery, although we see that it is a law, they do not always know exactly what to do. But if the Kaleta case doesn't turn up, if Gábor Kaleta doesn't get caught, if the journalists don't do their job, then I'm not entirely convinced that we're negotiating a bill like this today. I think that there is no debate between us in that, and I think that is why it was unnecessary for Congressman Nacsa to use this -- I would not use phrases because I would be banned, so the Member's comment and comment on the type of issue that he was trying to criticise on a party policy basis was not good, and he referred to the number of newspapers he had. I think in this case, you should consult with the people on your side about how many newspapers you have. Believe me, I don't have a newspaper. But in this case, I have taken a consistent position to the end and I represent it now. I think that any tightening up that will prevent, not the second crime, and I say this to Mrs Selmeczi, but the first one, I think is good. Every step that has a deterrent effect in this nasty, unacceptable crime, where you can't talk without emotion, where you can't just talk about the criminal code... that's why I've read you these quotes. [[11.40]] Behind all these cases we're talking about, there's people. Children, some of whom are now adults, and who may never feel protected by the state, and the truth, fellow Members, is that they have not been protected; indeed! In many cases, he threw it away as a prey. I think that the basic starting point, the amendment to the criminal code, is okay. I would say that I do not fully understand, but this is something that my fellow Members will obviously explain to me, at some point, why, in the context of paedophile crimes, it is necessary to say again and again how important family and marriage are. I'd just like to say that you know that much of the pedophile crimes happen in marriage and in the family, from a relative's point of view, don't you? I don't understand how you got here, I think it's a broken record with you, it's a recurring ideological thing to do. We don't think so, we think we should really deal with anti-pedo crimes, and usually comprehensively with this thing, because if we have his criminal law leg, we think it's okay, then the only way it can be round is if we have the victim's foot next to it. And it is not good enough for me, fellow Members, that we will come back in September and then we will talk again about this matter. It's not good enough, it has to be dealt with now. To add, the criminal code part is incomplete. First of all, it must be included in this criminal code amendment that failure to file a complaint is a crime in itself. In this connection, it was one of your publicists who said that he was aware of a pedophile crime 20 years ago. Then we submitted an amendment proposal to make it mandatory and to make it a separate crime. We will put this amendment back on the table, because I think it is part of the Criminal Code Amendment. We believe that what Congresswoman Selmeczi said is okay with disenfranchising the occupation. But we don't think it's enough, we don't think it's enough that you can't hire people like that in a leisure center, zoo or other place who committed pedophile crimes. We do not think that there should be a bishop, priest, or priest; because of what you have said, I do not even remember; perhaps Congressman Nacsa has spoken about it, or my fellow Member Selmeczi, that adults who are entrusted with the care of children have a very large and extra responsibility, and it is very right, what you are saying is that these people who have committed such crimes cannot be allowed to come near children. We agree with that. There should be no zoo, amusement park, leisure center, but anyone committing such a crime should not be a bishop, priest, priest, or priest in any way near children. This is a priority for us. I would also like to make it clear that full and comprehensive child protection and the fight against pedophilia cannot stop here. The amendment of the Criminal Code is an important part, but not sufficient. The fact that victim protection is not included in this bill once again is extremely painful for me, because those against whom these horrific crimes have already been committed must feel that in this country, it does not matter whether someone is sitting here with Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik, DK, MSZP or any of the factions in Parliament, we are with the victims, and we want to help the victims, if not others, with justice. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that justice must also be done. Justice must also be served for the sins of the past years that have been silent, unspoken, untested. There are good international examples of countries acting in this case, and indeed they were partners who had committed these crimes in the past. Therefore, we propose that we supplement this bill by inviting the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference to launch a comprehensive internal investigation within 15 days of the entry into force of this law, for which it has six months, which reveals the acts and crimes that took place within the framework of the Catholic Church. By the way, when Congressman Nacsa stood up as a KDNP Member, I sincerely believed that he would come up with such a proposal. In the event that the Catholic Episcopal Conference does not do this, the Hungarian State should do this job in Ireland or in the United States of America, but especially in Ireland! And do it because our task and responsibility is not only to severely punish future pedophiles, but also to explore past pedophiles and justice. There's a lot of us in this country with a child close to his heart. There can be no party politics to settle this case. Sadly, there are many children in this country who are not close to a loving adult; those who live in children's homes are like that. I want to believe that the Hungarian system protects these children. But just today, I received a letter from the Bács-Kiskun County Police Department's Criminal Directorate, which closed the investigation into the Kalocsa Children's Home; the Kalocsa Children's Home, where not only children were physically abused, but it turned out that the teacher of faith was a teacher who had been sexually approaching children. It's very difficult to talk without emotion, because there are vulnerable children who are vulnerable to sexual violence. Imagine children who are not protected by parents, grandparents, aunts or uncles, and are completely alone in this world. Therefore, the Hungarian State has an extra obligation to carry out the same comprehensive investigation in the child protection and child welfare systems, so that the paedophile crimes of the past are brought to light, so that they cannot occur in the present and in the future. We need to strengthen the investigation of criminal organs in this area, train them, and obviously take action together against pedophile crimes. I would like to ask you to support our amendments in order to make this a real anti-pedophile bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Those who commit such a crime against children must be punished in the strictest possible way. It's not a question, and all these people need to be put out in the public eye. Everyone should be able to search, to know who has committed such acts; to be able to look at them, and to be sure that if they have children, they will not move to their neighbors, or they will certainly not teach their children, or they will not meet them in the swimming pool, and we could list them. We must give people this guarantee, there is no question at all, and there is no debate between us for a moment. As I would like to say in advance now, all these tightening ups must be supported, and we support these tightening ups, because the LMP Group supports this bill. My fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs said that in many legislative proposals, measures, and often also in cases where your government has every legal opportunity to decide on its own and to implement it immediately, they will also bring the proposals to the House, and they will move them to Parliament immediately, within 24 hours. [[11.50]] And that is why I ask why, in a proposal of such importance, when children's safety is at stake, there is no such urgency. The fact that this should otherwise be properly prepared legally, from a social point of view, to take into account criminal statistics and, by the way, real numbers because unfortunately, there are many times between the two, there is a huge difference, so that should have happened, so that is true, it should not have happened now, but much, much earlier. And, as Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai pointed out, we do not know how many cases there are, unfortunately, that there are very many that could have been prevented if they had taken the first step in this matter. And the reason I am bringing this here is that, before you misunderstand, I am not bringing this here from a party political point of view, but because, as Congressman Ander and Congresswoman Vadai have said, we have all submitted proposals from each opposition party, and the LMP has also submitted proposals long before, years ago, which would have been better than we would have been if we had accepted it. And, of course, I am not saying that all of us's proposals were complete or that they could not have been made even stronger, but then we should have had a debate about this at the time, and not at the committee stage, even the Fidesz MEPs would have blocked the entry into the series. You know, by the way, that's what's bothering us, I think, most of all. But it is true that we now have this proposal, finally, at last, we have this proposal before this House. In Mr Nacsa's speech, he mentioned how many and how many legislative proposals have been tabled by the Fidesz Members in recent years, and the fact that we are here now is due to the fact that there have been a lot of tightening up and a lot of measures here. Then tell me, Congressman, how the Kaleta case came about. Because I understand that you mentioned this only for a passing half sentence without saying the person's name, so let's just say, Gábor Kaleta was a Peruvian ambassador of 19 thousand 19 thousand! pedophile footage of children stored on his office laptop, and the Hungarian authorities failed to investigate this case, any action was taken by means of a foreign signal, and the Hungarian public was forgotten in some interesting way in a case in which they had an obligation. And I'm bringing this here because one of the very right aims of this bill and its main purpose is to make it public who these amazing criminals are, who are the people who have been subjected to such atrocities against children. So when it came to your guy, unfortunately, we didn't have that publicity. We have repeatedly asked myself and other Members to publish the minutes of the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting, which, by the way, has been encrypted for ten years, about what information the Hungarian authorities, who are competent, had at that moment in the case, and what steps can be expected, and what preventive steps can be expected to be taken, so that, say, perhaps next time, Hungary may not be represented abroad by a man who is committing such terrible acts. However, that report was not published. I asked the Ministry of Interior several times that, since Gábor Kaleta had his national security clearance, he had been vetted, but it was unbelievably impossible to find out this corner of his life, but Gábor Kaleta still had a risk-free national security professional to this day, since unfortunately the pamphlet did not tell us if this had been withdrawn. The fact is, if so, then he can still learn about state secrets, which, I think, would also be amazing and outrageous. Just as it is an incredible thing that it could happen in Hungary that after all of this, after having stored 19 thousand paedophiles of children on his office laptop, he received a total penalty of 540,000 forints and some suspension. That's what happened. I think that this cannot happen again, and it is no coincidence that we have already presented to Parliament three times the legislative amendment proposal that would make it clear in the Btk. that children who are on pornographic recordings should be considered as victims, because at the moment this is a huge deficiency in the Hungarian legal order, and unfortunately this has led to the fact that Gábor Kaleta was not finally banned from working with children. You have voted against this bill three times. Now, in conjunction with this proposal, which you have tabled, and on which I have stressed that we support it, because we support all the tightening up that punishes the perpetrators of child crimes, but I ask that the proposal that we are now submitting to this end, that it finally be ensured that these children should be considered as victims, and that, therefore, they should be accompanied by the maximum victim protection that should be touched, and that these criminals who commit these atrocities should finally be absolutely forbidden from working with children, will be supported by our proposed amendment. It is obvious from the justification of your proposal that the number of crimes committed and the reports made otherwise has unfortunately not decreased but increased over the last decade. It is clear that between 2011 and 2020, the proportion of these notifications increased from 8 percent to 40 percent, so action must be taken in any way, and that is why it is incomprehensible, and really should be done by the authors to explain why this proposal has only just been submitted. Because, my fellow Members, as I mentioned to Congressman Nacsa, yes, this had to be prepared professionally, and we had to look at the trends, what the current events were, and we obviously have to respond to the social problems and the cases that have emerged, but they had the opportunity to do so before, so this kind of preparation should not have started, say, three weeks ago, and now it should have been submitted to the proposal, but it should have been done five to six years ago. And let alone you didn't, because what you submitted didn't solve the problem, Congressman Nacsa, you didn't solve it! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] What is this Kaleta thing then? How did this happen? They didn't solve anything. A complex solution was needed, and this proposal is now going towards a complex solution, so I would ask you to complete the proposals that are coming in now. My fellow Member, Mr Krisztina, and I have tabled our amendment in order to give full protection to children. Support these, come up with such a proposal, and let us vote this way. What my fellow Member said was that we cannot wait until September for the issue of victim protection, that is true. That is why I say that these amendments should be adopted, that there really should be a proposal before us that we hope will help to identify as many crimes as possible and will help to protect as many victims as possible, in particular prevention, so that they do not become victims at all, as we are talking about young children. I would like to conclude by saying once again that I very much hope that our amendments will be adopted, and I would also like to ask Mr Máté Kocsis and Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi to support these amendments as a starting proposal. Why do I say that? Because unfortunately, these crimes are very often not on their own, and I think we need to think about what other crimes are, by the way, equally dangerous to society and, by the way, have a huge vision. I would like to refer, for example, to contact violence. So let us consider and figure out how to make it possible not only for pedophilia crimes to have such a record, not just of these people's portraits, their names should be public and searchable, but also of those who commit sexual violence. And by the way, I wouldn't really close the line here, but let's really look at the crimes that need to be supplemented, so that we can provide more safety for both children and their families. [[12.00]] So I'm asking you here to support these additions that we've submitted. We will certainly support this proposal, because it cannot be a question and it is not a question for us that the interests of the victims are first. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-01-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Since Congressman Bence Tordai is not present, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member to apply now has the opportunity to speak, with this being done by Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I do a lot of child protection, so I would like to talk to you and the public of the country, of course, on the basis of my experience. I have to start by saying that you are certainly aware that there are newspaper articles at the bottom that say that precisely because of the sensitivity of the subject, the authors of that article do not place advertising or advertising in this article. I think very seriously that the Hungarian Parliament is doing the right thing if, as you have said many times in the previous hours, precisely because of these nasty crimes we are talking about, and precisely because we are talking about children who are suffering this, they do not intend to use this law for political or even political purposes at any level. This is very important. Public life is in a terrible state in Hungary, and everyone should look into it. But let this be a law and a situation where I don't have to listen to it for hours, disputes that should be settled completely elsewhere. Be nice and keep yourselves safe. I would ask the Honourable Secretary of State and our fellow Member, Mr Kocsis, to make sure that this does not go in the direction that, in fact, would mean a political pedophilia, the exploitation and use of children for political purposes. If that happens, I will object to it with all my strength and maximum power. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would like to talk about what has been left out of this law, and I am looking here specifically at our fellow Member, Kocsis, because I will start this speech with his interview. I am very honored to have a few minutes of your time, Congressman, because it is important what I have to say, and I would like you to be able to reflect on this. I'm gonna listen to what you're saying. In an interview, you were asked that strict penalties are absolutely necessary, but can this law help prevent them? The answer you gave was that if you caught the unsub, your life would be a nightmare, if that wasn't a sufficient deterrent, then nothing would be. And that's exactly what I want to talk to you about. It is very important what you said that if you catch the perpetrator, because there is a very terrible statistic that you need to know: sexual crimes against children have a huge visibility. This means that these people are typically not caught. I have read a lot of civilian resolutions, expert resolutions and be kind, ignore who is serialist and who isn't, have nothing to do with this whole topic, 10 out of a hundred cases, one goes to court, and 0.7 cases are condemned. In English: quite a small fraction of the cases that come out at all, and after which it can be a nightmare for anyone. We, in Parliament, are dealing not only with what is revealed, but also with protecting children so that they cannot be put in such a situation. As a politician, I first dealt with pedophilia in so-called expert depth when I was in Strasbourg as a national delegate of the European Council with the delegation of the Hungarian Parliament. There was a group of people talking about how children should be prepared to defend themselves in such a situation. That's a very interesting approach, and I'm going to talk about it. We can help our children, too. There, we were given books that explain, for example, what can be done and what can not be done according to the age. For example, the so-called hand rule was that the hand could touch our heads, shoulders, and where it couldn't touch them. I have been dealing with this issue ever since, and I am very pleased that we are there to finally tighten up the items, and there are other important measures in this law. But we need to talk about the fact that ten out of a hundred cases actually show up. What about the other 90? What happens to those children? They know that when we talk about protecting victims, preventing or helping the perpetrator to be held accountable, we are always talking about this threefold division: prevention, victim support and accountability of the perpetrator. This triple division is also very similar to the treatment of relationship, relationship, domestic violence, and there we talked about a very similar division in connection with the Istanbul Convention. But unfortunately, what happened there was that practically the right law was born, and because the agreement was not ratified for political reasons, that is, its implementation, the other two legs are in the background. And what do we see? We don't see good statistics, we see terrible statistics. I can say it as a former statistician, because I've always done my job in this way, that there are always people behind the statistics, there are sufferings in hell. On the basis of our political experience in relationship violence, we must say that we should not stop here either by voting on this law by the Hungarian Parliament. I have no doubt about this, not really about the opposition side, so there is no point in making any kind of party policy out of it. But we will not be able to do our job effectively if we do not touch the other two legs and do what we have the power to do. One of the things I wanted to talk to you about is raising public awareness. There is a need for a very strong social awareness of how we can help them to find out or prevent these cases. Here, too, there is a terrible statistic that 90 percent of child sexual crimes are reported in nine out of ten cases of close relatives, acquaintances and those living in the narrower environment of the child, those who are in some power, addiction, or subordination relationship with the child. From now on, I am telling you to use the power of the Hungarian Parliament to come across everywhere, on the street, on the bus, in the pharmacy, what children's rights are and what we can do, what we need to do in the event that you suspect that someone is touching children insufferably. And we also need to prepare our children for the fact that they can't do anything about what's right and what's wrong. I have just mentioned to you these Strasbourg publications. It was really very important that he explained this rule to children in an age, in a very graphic and very childlike way, about where a hand should not touch it. It's very, very important. We must help our own children to do this! The third is the preparation of the institutional system. Starting from the hostess to the pediatrician, through the guardian's office to the teacher's office, to the police, a cooperative network must be established, and you, my honourable fellow Member, must be a priority in this regard from now on. This bill, which you have placed on the table of the House, is very important, but you cannot stop here, and time is not waiting, and political support is available in the Hungarian Parliament. Information exchange, warning system, case discussion, procedures, training, protocols, you have your own know-how, knowledge of how to do this right. Fidesz and KDNP should step forward and do so, and not consider the opposition as an enemy, but as a cooperative partner on this important issue. There was also good practice that I have to say here in the Hungarian Parliament about institutional level protection, precisely in a terrible case, after the Kiss László case, the Swimming Association asked a child rights expert to develop an institutional level child protection warning system. [[12.10]] It's really what it's supposed to be. For athletes, parents, coaches, a code of conduct for everyone. They have established an in-house warning system, a complaint system, the necessary child protection officer who receives these complaints, and a body that can judge them completely independently, and the whole thing is as good as it is. It's an institutional protocol, we need them everywhere. As far as I know, but correct me if I'm wrong, because it's always in the cards that the procedure for assault cases is only in the children's homes, and it doesn't work. I'm afraid I've experienced that myself. These internal investigations are not conducted by independent bodies, and the classic thing that shouldn't work, but we're getting it right, it's the cover-up that ends at best to get fired, and then who knows what's gonna happen to him next. So we shouldn't let that go. You can't, you can't judge and control yourself, who at any level has an interest in, so to speak, the institution's reputation being protected. So it doesn't work that way. And there's victim support. That's the second leg, but we need to talk about that, too. There are few child psychologists in the country, few specialists in the treatment of trauma, therapists, lack of free psychological services. This is a huge problem for this country. Now, with regard to Covid, this has come to the fore precisely because what happened to us has hit the country mentally, unfortunately it is still happening, but the point is that we also need effective help here, human souls must be dealt with in this profession, and children who have become victims of this nasty crime deserve the best professionals. We also need to move forward here, and I must add that court proceedings are not typically child-centred. Tibor Navracsics, who was the minister of this country, began a very good initiative, the child-friendly hearing rooms. He started, but unfortunately his successor didn't continue to ask why he didn't, and he has to continue and what he has and what he needs to use. I have encountered many cases where, although there was this room, it has not been used, and it is your business; you cannot stop here, you must go on. We gotta keep moving. I'd like to tell you something else: child prostitution. A few years ago, we fought with the competent minister that there was child prostitution in Hungary. The average age of entering prostitution in this country, according to the statistics I know, is 14 years, and it is horrific ways to persuade children to become victims of this horror. I would also like to say that there was now a statistics showing that half of child prostitutes in Europe are of Hungarian origin and come from extreme poverty. They've got a job to do with this. I would like you to continue working in this area as well. Yeah, we were talking about children's homes. We were talking about the people who worked there. For me, it's my comma horse, and I'll tell you in every place in the world, I'll tell you how to pay for it, please be kind to the social workers. They're dealing with this. Let us give the support to everyone who works with children, which must be able to endure in his office, because there is a great deal of turnover in these areas, and it is not in the interest of the children. I always stand up for this, I always stand up for it, I stand up for it now, and I always stand up for social workers to get their support. Children need safety. There are currently 7,000 children in the child protection system. It is very important that they are particularly vulnerable. Always pay close attention to them. Once again, I would like to ask you that what I have said has been said virtually unpolitically, and I have made a positive comment on an ex-minister who has begun a good course, and I ask you to continue. I reject any policy about children being tools. This can't be it either. I would very much ask you to give some dignity to the Hungarian Parliament, but mostly to children, and to hold back on where to play political battles and where not. You can't do that, it can't be a question. There were several points in the debate that I was happy to hear, and there were some points that I did not hear at all. The joy of progress and expectations is that something is finally happening that is important and good. And the political battles don't belong here. Be kind, don't wait until autumn, don't wait for anything, go ahead, they have two-thirds power, but I think there are three thirds in the Hungarian Parliament on this issue. The kids need help, let's give it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and the independent]]
u2021-06-01-48	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We will continue with our work and with the speeches of the speakers who have been announced in advance. Among these, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, may be the first to speak. [[Intercoms, including, "He's not here."]] Yeah, well, the thing is, you see more than the president sometimes. I don't want to generalize this, I just want to highlight the specific situation. So Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who is not here, could speak. [[Intercoms: tabled?]] I see, I see. No one applied for a two-minute speech, so the representative of Fidesz, Mr Máté Kocsis, took priority as rapporteur. Mr. Team Leader, here you go.
u2021-06-01-49	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. This debate may take up to day and can be concluded relatively briefly. I'm interested in both of them, but in the first one, it's probably too big a topic to settle soon, and in the second one, because it's gonna be untidy in a jiffy. It is very difficult, and now it may be narrow enough for us to take each other seriously for a moment, probably not many people are watching this parliamentary mediation, but it is very difficult to bear that the 57.5 minutes of opposition speech is 11 minutes of kaletatás, fideszzáság, why now, you are not authentic, we are apologizing to Gábor Kaleta, and then, with a fondness, they say that we should not make a party policy issue out of it. I don't think we should treat each other like idiots. I was hoping you could talk a little bit seriously about this thing. But if we're kaleta, let's do kaleta. The question that Congresswoman Demeter asked me about how the Kaleta case could have happened is very difficult to answer. How could all the other pedophile crimes have happened? This question is equivalent. The fact that, with all their strength, even this morning in their party press, they have some kind of promiscuous journalist named Earth, or something like that, even this morning, he's fidgeting and kaleting, and then you come here and tell us glassy and humid, so that we don't make a party political issue out of it, and yet we're forced to respond to that. If I had spoken to you at the same spiritual level as you did in Kaleta, I would have to say that Gábor Kaleta is a socialist diplomat. Doesn't that sound bad? He is a socialist diplomat because he served the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments to the full, where he built his foreign relations system, his career was built, and it is true that in 2010 he was inherited by the current civilian government. But that would be a stupid statement, just like a stupid statement to say that Gábor Kaleta is fidesze. So I'm saying that I have a suggestion: either we take each other seriously, and then we can have a meaningful debate until the end of the day, or we can continue the stupid conversation like this, but it's going to be untidy. So if you're katetating, I'd like to indicate my personal attitude. That you are not obliged to follow my social side last year, I am not obliged to follow yours there either, Gábor Kaleta received no praises from the head of the parliamentary group of the major governing party, so there should not be any debate between us. The fact that I or my fellow Members have anything to do with Gábor Kaleta politically, on a principled basis, or with regard to his protection, I would grossly reject it even in a friendly conversation, let alone in a parliamentary speech. [[12.20]] They have the right to crate, they have the right to push us, but then I will have the right to say so, and we will not get anywhere with it that Gábor Kaleta is a socialist diplomat, I could even say someone who was in office at the same time as Ágnes Vadai, I could say such stupidities. When he worked in defense, Kaleta in the State Department, and then they must be friends who understand this silly logic. So let's get this over with. I'm very happy to hear you say things I like to hear. That Kaleta got a mild verdict, whether you like it or not, the Prime Minister gave her the best answer. If the courts and the D.A. were under the political influence that you are accused of, Kaleta wouldn't have been punished like this. It is possible to upset a Member of Parliament about who received a slight punishment, but it is also the conversation of the idiots. It wasn't given by MEPs, it wasn't government representatives who gave Gábor Kaleta the mild punishment. So if you do not make these childish, ill-advised, circumstantial remarks, then I am absolutely open to talking about this matter in a meaningful way. And if you do not make a political issue out of the constant circumstantialisation, then I believe your question of the same is credible. As well as the fact that we brought this proposal in as the campaign approaches, I will put it in this box. I'm guessing it wasn't a campaign when, according to your Internet search engine, you wrote 1137 articles about the Fidesz-Kaleta relationship. I'm guessing that wasn't a campaign, that wasn't a political issue. So now that Parliament is part of the theatre in a more narrow version of the public, it will cease to exist a little, so my request is not to make such allegations. I have condemned and will condemn Kaleta in the future with every part of my body, thought and sentence, and I will not engage in any community with her, Kaleta was not even a member of our political party, and even if they force us to do so, I will always say the same thing. We never made excuses for them. I am rejecting your statement to Congresswoman Demeter that we didn't mention it, and I am rejecting it because I told you here in my expo, I also told you her name, and I will say it a thousand times, because with such a sick man, we don't even take up any community for half a sentence. And I maintain that the Kaleta case is a disgrace to the whole country, yours as well as ours. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I resent it!]] That's why... yes, yes! But don't ask him, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes!]] First of all, listen to me, because this genre is not a conversational genre, and I have listened to it. It is a shame for all of us, because Gábor Kaleta was not spoken as a left-wing or right-wing diplomat in the international press, but as a Hungarian diplomat. So we can't be proud of a man like that, neither of us, nor accuse each other of apologizing. The shame of this country is Gábor Kaleta. If we're going to be very Kaleta, let me even tell you why it's just Kaleta. Congresswoman told me the data that I referred to, by the way, that there are brutally large number of pedophiles. Why Kaleta? One of many. Why don't we talk about the rest of it, why don't we talk about it? Why Kaleta? Is it because it happened to work in the State Department, by the way, I'm telling you, through long-term cycles? Why not the others? Or let's talk about the rest. I'm not gonna keep thinking about this for a long time, because I think you understand. So if we're serious about this, let's talk seriously, and then let's cut the crap. With regard to their amending proposals, I will, by the way, look forward to putting on a posture that I welcome all kinds of proposals. I also claim that it is possible to go further than our proposals. I have one request that the single left-wing opposition discuss with each other what they support because we do not participate in that game, I say this in advance, given the seriousness of the situation, that one of them proposes something, we may say that we finally agree with what we agree with. I also agree, on an emotional and principled basis, that there should be an obligation to report it. Let us be careful here, Congresswoman, because, in the case of domestic pedophiles, we will face walls in the case of incriminating reporting obligations for family members. So there are some legal issues that will be worth discussing seriously, but we are not going to go into the game of one of them proposing something, we accept it, and the other one is attacking it. So if you would like to suggest these things carefully, along the lines of legal principles, as an author, I am not shutting down from anything. It's not our goal, no matter what they're trying to do to save anyone, to protect them. Most of us are family mothers and fathers, just like you. I do not believe that this debate will go unpoliticised, but I believe that everyone has a personal, emotional attitude, everyone, and so do we. So not extending my response long, nor would I like to provoke the figure, so my proposal is to make a lot of amendments that are legally coherent, fit into the legal system, to say that they fit in with your principles, personal, not political, father, mother, good-natured, and we will not be shutting ourselves away from anything. We're gonna be shutting down the moment we feel like this is gonna be a political trick or some kind of trap-and-trap. There are few legislative proposals in the life of a parliament, especially in such fragmented political conditions as that which we are experiencing in Hungary, in which there could be a useful and meaningful debate. In spite of their recent Kaletical provocation, I believe that this may be such a suggestion, and that if you do these few conditions that I have just asked for, then I will go with everything. There were a number of proposals in the press, and I'll tell you, it was a huge debate within Fidesen, for example, about chemical castration. There was a proposal on the basis of the idea of the Member, like the idea of Mrs Vadai, on the basis of gender, as well as on reporting obligations, further increases in sentences, all kinds of things. That is why I do not consider this debate to be closed either. This is a proposal, so it is called, and it is typically the proposal for which improvements can be made. In closing, child protection, victim support parts. Now, let's just ignore the also unserious accusation of why it's just now. By the way, if we had submitted this last year, they would have said exactly the same thing, why only now, why not in 2011 and 13 and 15 respectively. I will patiently listen to this for the rest of the debate to the extent necessary. And why only in the fall? There are people here who have at least declared themselves child protection professionals, but there are those who are, in fact, professionally, full-time. Secretary of State could tell us a lot about them, we know them, they're government employees. With them, we have a task force. That's what the Prime Minister referred to last year. This working group is working on a number of proposals that concern not only pedophilia and the fight against pedophilia or victim support, but also all the areas of the child protection system that I bravely say are almost all areas. It's a very big job. So when you tell us not to wait until September, I will not argue with this sentence for a minute, but we will not be able to do it if we do not wait for the final, uniform position of the government agencies, the Ministry, the experts in the important part of the institutional system. So the sentence can be considered political, to submit it now and immediately. We can file it, and I won't object to you hand and foot if you file them. I do not know where this law can fit, because those parts are not opened, which is why I consider the statement more political, but I do not know that it is worth rushing for political pushing on a matter in which professionals have been working in the background; not three weeks, Congresswoman, although they have been working for three weeks, much longer. And here, we're going to bow down to the government that we can't see from this level, believe me. We can say political lounges about him, but we can't see him, because that's not what we live in. [[12.30]] So you can submit everything, but you will consider not having to wait for the comprehensive legislative and pedophilia proposals of this sector. In closing, I am glad that we do not have a discussion of principle, but I am sure that everyone on both sides was very excited that the other would oppose something. However, I would ask one thing: your proposals should not be directed towards political provocation, everyone knows what I am thinking here. I claim that the amendment we have tabled applies to everyone, including the priests. A priest will be in prison for 20 years if he's caught. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: If you're caught!]] With regard to the phrase "if caught," which, if I remember correctly, was said by Congresswoman Demeter, she had a semi-spoken phrase that if caught, I could tell you that, due to the spread on the Internet, the term "if caught" could not be ignored. And I don't dispute that the vision of the M.O.s is huge, huge, we don't see it, and I think the civil society you mentioned can only estimate it, we don't know it, it's incomprehensible, I said in my expo that every day there's a known pedophile crime, and by the way, hell knows how much happens in a day, how many of these images are looking at right now when we're discussing it. We can't tell you that, but if you get caught, law enforcement has a job to do. And since the number of these is quite large, compared to what unknown terrain we're on, the end of the Internet, I think law enforcement is working with better efficiency than it was years ago. If the term is caught, it is necessary to say it, because if it is not caught, it will not be punished. Returning to the point: the point of my proposal is also my offer; they take it as an offer that, if we take each other seriously and do not use this matter for political provocation, as sometimes the wind of this matter has hit us in relation to the comments that have been made, we do not shut ourselves down from any amendments. I told you everything. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-50	We will continue with the list of speakers. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2021-06-01-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I am willing to believe either Matthew Kocsis or Lőrinc Nacsa that you personally consider pedophile crimes to be one of the most despicable crimes with me, and I also believe that there may be even the various crimes of other sexual motivation, which are committed either to harm women or to harm anyone else, are considered equally vile crimes. I don't think there's a debate between us. I can also agree, and then I would respond here to a sentence or two by Matthew Kocsis that we should not really make politics out of this, but we cannot do that either, Mr. Group Leader, that we are pretending that these matters have not happened. Well, unfortunately, these cases took place in Hungary. I can also accept from you that, in the case of Gábor Kaleta, you have said that you are not engaged in any kind of community with Kaleta, that you are fully inherited, let us say, this man who has been working in this position for a long time, that is to say, on behalf of governments, he has been serving on foreign affairs for a long time. There is a professional question here, however, even if I absolutely believe you: what kind of screening could people in such an important position have been through during your 11-year-old governance, if this has just been found out? It's a professional question, but once again, I can tell you that it's true, it may have been a mistake, but I can accept you saying that this might not be your fault. Then he also says, Mr. Congressman, that we should take each other seriously. I can accept this, too, only then should I not have the others, how should I put it, to express myself delicately, although this cannot be expressed differently, to be seen as stupid, where appropriate, as opposition representatives and anyone else, so we should not really make a PR campaign of these, because, in my opinion, the reason for this bill and its motivation is to a very large extent that you are full of paedophile, sexually motivated cases in the past period, and are trying to draw attention to it at some level. He also said there's no need to talk about the Kaleta punishment here. Well, I'll tell you why it's not unnecessary, Congressman: it's not unnecessary, because if Gábor Kaleta had accepted the Jobbik proposal a year ago, then he couldn't have received 500 thousand forints, because now we agree fully with what was submitted, thanks to what Gábor Kaleta would have received much more serious punishment. I feel like this is your mess, too. He said, and that's probably the last thing I'd quote, that we should not just talk about Gábor Kaleta, we should talk about the others. I'll take your advice, maybe we should talk about the others, and I'll try to be completely benevolent with you and Fides. If we consider the latest case in Győr, where your direct colleague of one of your parliamentary representatives has been involved in a pedophile crime, then I can say again that you may not have chosen your colleague carefully enough, it is not possible that you can learn all about it all the time, even in private, and perhaps you can say that you are not a colleague of yours, and that you are not likely to have much to do with it. But what you can do now, because whoever's here in Parliament knows precisely that there were pedophiles more than ten years ago, ten years ago, they tried to wash out the leading Fidesz politician in your ranks from a pedophile scandal, which was discovered in connection with the discovery of an international pedophile network in the capital of a neighbouring country, I think you know things about it. I'm not naming you, Congressman, because you covered this whole thing up. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Say it!]] they haven't let go of this man's hand yet. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Say it!]] And that's when I'm bound to think about the granite-solid Fundamental Law. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Who?]] Once again, you may not have heard of this, others have heard of it, but you are young, so you may not have heard of it. [[Máté Kocsis: I'm holding myself well! Dr. Pál Völner: Say it!]] But what you can't deny, Congressman, and then let's talk about a specific matter, is Tivadar Fohsz XVII. District Fidesz Vice Mayor's case. I'll tell you why you can't distance yourself from this in any way: because Tivadar Fohsz found out at the end of 2018 that he constantly molested his 11-year-old foster daughter, subjected her to physical molestation, took forbidden footage of her, and therefore she was prosecuted. The reason they knew for certain was that Tivadar Fohsz was the 17th. As deputy mayor of the district, he was one of the leading politicians of Fidesz. Then, in 2018, he was quickly withdrawn from political life, as in 2019 such a Fidesz potentate was not launched in the municipal elections, because you already knew exactly what kind of crimes he might have been involved in. But if you say now, Congressman, that you didn't know about it in 2018, in 2019, when news articles and everything else came out about it, then you must have already known about this case. And then I have repeatedly called your attention to this case, and here comes the fact that if you really thought that a pedophile should be punished, you should be punished within your own community. I will ask Mr. Group Leader, and I would also ask him to look into whether Tivadar Fohsz is still a member of the Fidesz, since not so long ago he was. When we found out he committed a pedophile crime, he was a member of the Fidesz. Then it's interesting that the 17th. in the district, you know, there's a fidesz city leadership, and in 2020 the dates are very important, the same Fidesz city leadership probably asked him to be the jury president at the cancer festival. We're talking about 2020! [[12.40]] Then Fidesz and the district administration may have something to do with saying once again on 15 February 2020 that the dates are important in the curatorium of the Rákoskert Church Foundation, the curatorium of the church that Imre Makovecz planned and is now being built in Rákosment. In addition to a Fidesz city administration, a member of this board was Tivadar Fohsz, who was known to do what he did to his foster daughter. In fact, on May 13, 2020 he was elected Chairman of the Board of the Cross-Turns Foundation; it may be clear that with your approval. What can not be denied, and I am curious about the opinion of Mr. Group leader on this matter: In 2019 after the municipal elections, when you put Tivadar Fohsz on a political road because you knew that he would be unsuitable, when you knew for sure about his pedophile case, and when in 2019 after the municipal elections there was a Fidesz majority city leadership in Rákosment, Tivadar Fohsz was voted as a severance payout for HUF 5 384 700 at the 2019 inaugural meeting. So this pedophile was given almost 5.5 million severance pay, of course, because you're not protecting these people. I think this case shows very, very well that you may be fighting against pedophilia in words, but when it affects you, so corporeally, in your community, you try to protect them, try to wash them out of these things, and you don't let these people go, but you even support them, with HUF 5.5 million, or you put them in different curatoriums. In my opinion, this is absolutely outrageous. Lőrinc Nacsa made us look at what we voted for and what we didn't vote for. Dear Congressman, In 2016, Jobbik presented its first serious proposal, which, by the way, concerned a fundamental amendment, which would not only have brought about paedophile crimes, but would have brought about a change and tightening of sexual crimes. You voted against that. Then, when we were constantly submitting our various proposals, you always voted against this, and you did not allow the House to see either the amendment of the Btk. or the pedophile register thing or the medicine thing. You have always prevented them and voted against them, even though we could have done so long ago in order to make it completely different. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will, of course, support this bill; because the Btk. tightening is in order in the proposal, since it is broadly in line with Jobbik's proposals, which you submitted, which you voted off at the time. So I think you can accept it. And the amendments that we have tabled, I would ask you kindly to consider, even with regard to the pedophile register. After all, what we really want is for everyone to know, whether in their living environment or for parents, to know that there are such wild animals living in their surroundings, whom I would like to stress once again, a condemned court. This is also natural in anti-democratic countries, such as the United States of America, where everyone can get to know these people's homes, what crime they have committed, and even their image, so that they can recognize if they accidentally see these people lurking near their children or even near a playground. I think this is a form of prevention, and I ask you to support this proposal. The possibility of drug treatment should also be considered, as international examples, also brought in entirely from anti-democratic countries, from England, the Scandinavian states, show that the proportion of paedophile crimes falls to a very high degree when these treatments can be applied. So I think that prevention should be given a great deal of emphasis. I think this is an opportunity for you to really show that you are serious and try to settle this issue comprehensively so that we can protect our children as much as possible. To this end, our proposals, I believe, are improving proposals, so I would ask you to accept and vote in favour of Jobbik's amendments. I wish not only for you, but for all of us, that after all these pedophiles and sexual crimes that have been linked to Fidesz in recent years, there will be none in the future. So that's what I wish for you, that's what I wish for ourselves. And not because you cover it up, but because there will be no such crimes. And every political party, every political community, in the event that someone is accused of something like this and convicted by a court, or is already being investigated with reasonable suspicion, will at that moment release these people's hands and distance themselves from them. That is what I wish for all of us; and that we can create a law that will help us as much as possible, either to law enforcement or to the courts, to protect our children, our grandchildren. And I would stress that we should be more comprehensive in protecting any person who might be the victim of a sexual crime in this country. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-06-01-52	Thank you very much. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to say that, under the rules of the house, the rapporteur is speaking in the debate whenever he wishes, within a maximum time frame of quarter, which is not, of course, compulsory. But since Máté Kocsis is the author and applied, he has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will comply with your request for non-mandatory time use. We just talked to you. If I had been told on the way here this morning to tell you who was the judge of the crab-smelling festival, I would have been embarrassed because I didn't know who the judge was for the cancer-smearing festival. Obviously, the congressman has a personal interest in the issue of Article XVII. Circumstantial political shovings, because it's his district, so you know him better than I don't embarrass you with such questions about cheesy festival members and judges! What's sadder is that we still can't talk about the merits of the case, the message didn't pass. Then let's do it again. It would have been better to debate the bill, but now the Fidesz has reached out to me as a political community. It is difficult to interpret, according to the rules of the Hungarian language, the two statements in the same sentence that we excuse pedophile offenders, those linked to Fidesz, and then the claim that these people were otherwise removed from circulation. Then let's do it again. I hate to break it to you, but I'm gonna have to take part in the stupid conversation right now. What were we supposed to do? These people were removed from their jobs immediately; as opposed to, say, Csaba Lackner, who was still who he was after a completely obvious cocaine scandal. They've been fired, reported, and most likely, in accordance with our hopes, they'll spend several years in prison. What else were we supposed to do? What's that got to do with us apologizing to them? Or the meaning of the word "save" is unknown to the accuser. [[12.50]] I thought that to apologize in the Hungarian language meant to cover up someone's case in such a way that, by the way, he would keep his job, his honor would remain, and the rest. The fact that a political party doesn't stand up and give names, specific accusations, suspicions, I don't know what else, I think it's the most natural thing in the world, because neither party does. But if these people are fired, they're being prosecuted, they're gonna be convicted, in prison... I almost said something by using the common language, they're gonna be in jail, what else do you think is gonna happen? What do you mean, excuse them? The big difference is if you have to participate in this conversation is that we have consequences. No one's apologizing for Kaleta. This man, Tivadar Fohs, no one's apologizing. You said it yourself. That's when we kicked him out of the party. He's not a member of Fidesz. [[György Szilágyi: He wasn't fired!]] He's not a member of the Fidesz, so we kicked him out of the party, not me, because I don't have that party job when his case came out. We will not tolerate this in our ranks. That's what I was trying to say earlier. That's how we can talk. You're welcome, but time will pass, and I'd hate to put the energy into it. There's this man from Győr. He was kicked out of all his duties, stripped of all his jobs, parties, local government, I don't know where he was sitting, maybe even in some supervisory board when his case came out. He's being prosecuted. What else should we do? Why can't we talk about this thing sanely? Now, if we're past this... excuse me, one more. We can't take any responsibility, and I can safely tell you on behalf of the governing party, about the judges at the cancer festival. We have no competence, and we must reject all efforts in this direction. Besides, I couldn't even look at a pedophile's juice, let alone him. I think it's sad to be asked to do this. If asked, the organizers should answer the question that you have now addressed to me. It's sad, by the way, that this guy's gonna do any part of the show at all. What's worse, the psychological side of it, the personal part, is that there's not enough shame in it that you shouldn't do anything, but you should run away far or hide, or at least be ashamed of your image so much that you don't take that position. I don't know what happened anyway, but it's my personal opinion, and you can consider it a party stand. The person you referred to ten years ago, we said you'd be excused, and you've been in prison ever since, as far as I understand it, we've been apologizing so much. We don't know who he is, but we have old comrades sitting here. [[György Szilágyi: You understand well that there is none. You know damn well there isn't.]] I'm glad you're young, I'll write it down somewhere. [[György Szilágyi: You know damn well there isn't!]] And I'm gonna count it as a rare tribute. But we don't remember who you mean. Give me names, but once again, this debate is only worth continuing if we see where it leads. It would be better to talk about the bill and end the puffing of these types of campaign slogans, which are purely political for the ruling party. We are at your disposal with my fellow Members on the merits of the matter if they can accept this proposal on a second request. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-54	We will continue with your speeches. Mr. Note, please help me to see that Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is here, because I simply can't see it from this shelf. You're welcome. [[Intercoms: Here it is!]] Independent Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, please speak.
u2021-06-01-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a very important and extremely sensitive legislative package in this House, both from a legal and social point of view. I think that, since the opposition has been looking forward to a similar presentation for a very long time, I do not think it is fortunate and elegant that it has been linked to seven other legislative proposals that are not at all relevant to this issue. I think that if they had been a separate law, not just me, but probably more of us wouldn't have voted for it. But given that this is a very serious social problem, there is no doubt that I will vote in favour of this proposal myself if it comes to a final vote. The question of pedophilia is not contemporary, because it has existed since man existed. Everyone knows and I very much hope that no Member of Parliament is willing to move away from the question of science, that pedophilia is a form of sexual aberration. It's a personality signature, it's defined for biological and genetic reasons in the subject, so if anyone calls it a simple culture of behavior, it denies science. As a Member, I have always said that I am not willing to deviate from science, scientific findings, scientific foundations and scientific opportunities, because then we politicians are going down a very bad path. Therefore, I think that operating on any side, such as the National Assembly, which side, which ideological circle politician was a pedophile or not, is a very bad way, because they are most likely all, but they are not yet all found out. [[Máté Kocsis: That's right!]] I would also like to say to you, not hurting anyone personally, that this Parliament could have been a member of the prosecution because the church in whose high school things happened was so scared of the raging pedophile scandals of the English Church that they did not dare to press charges, because they feared that the Hungarian Church would also be exposed to the light that it could happen in the institution maintained by the Church. It could be a Member of Parliament whose university did not press charges because just a number of paedophile scandals from around the world shocked and deterred all the people of the world, and the university simply did not want to pull one of these on itself, although the exams often took place in different apartments rather than in the university halls. So all I can say is that it's a really bad way to talk about pedophiles on either side. I'd like to add one more comment. I don't think the Kaleta case dictated this proposal. Don't nod, my colleague Nacsa Lőrinc, because you'll be surprised. I think the Bus case generated the fact that it was just filed. We really don't know exactly what Bus New Year's Eve was doing, but his colleagues have reported that they were aware of his sexual orientation, but what he was doing out there doesn't really fit in an ambassador's life. But in this regard, I do not hold the Fidesz or the government responsible for Bus New Year's Eve. Listen up, Mr. Máté Kocsis. I don't hold the Fidesz or the government responsible, because for example, Bus New Year's Eve has been in the State Department since 1991, and it's been halfway around the world. So if his sexual behavior culture is not normal and, let's say, not worthy of an ambassador, then that means that he hasn't done it before, because it's not government-dependent and job-dependent, it's simply not a C-type screening for what he was meant to do. There are several of us here in this house who have undergone a C-type screening, and in this respect the only question is that you have a non-general sexual orientation or practice a lifestyle that is not about a sexual relationship between a woman and a man, of course, between adult people. But why did I bring up the question of not applying to science, health rules and personality traits? I spoke about it because I think that the need for medication is very justified, for these offenders the introduction of compulsory treatment for punishment, because, whether we like it or not, we need to be aware of what pedophilia means in the system of diseases. BNO and DSM are the two disease systems, the DSM-4 itself prescribes what pedophilia means. Strong, recurring sexual fantasies, desires, or actions that persist for at least six months cause clinically significant stress or functional dysfunction in the individual's social life or working ability, and generally include at least one of the following, such as a child or another incompetent person. [[13.00]] So pedophilia is a disease. This is important because if it is a disease, then it is essential to contribute to a criminal law consequence by a system of health measures that can bring that subject out of this sexual aberration. And while, of course, I am voting in favour of this bill, but I also expect that, if the group that has submitted and supported this in such a depth and such powerful regulation is already dealing with it, then let this issue be dealt with in its complexity and confirmed that those who have ever done such actions will not be able to do the same in the future because they will recover from this problem. If your blood pressure is severely high, you go to the doctor, and you get him cured, whose rectum or colon or any of your internal organs are inflamed, or if you have a tumor on it, then we'll go, we'll get you cured, we'll get you out of surgery, we'll take medication. What I don't understand is, if prevention is so important, why you don't like the idea of at least one professional grammar, clinging to it, trying to deal with this issue so that, yes, after such a crime has been committed, you have to have medication, so that you can stop practicing this way of life. I would also like to talk about a statistical record, a fact that recently the number of pedophile crimes has multiplied. I deny that they've grown recently. No! It was the same as before, but it was more revealed, and that's the problem of vision. And the reason that more has been discovered is because of events in the past about such sexual aberrations, and serious sexual harassment by known people, or even paedophiliac suspicion, has come to light that a lot of people who suffer from it, or who see such crimes being committed, have become more courageous and bravely stood up to the victims, the victims, to tell them what happened to them. By the way, this means that society is developing somewhat, the victim's environment and the victim's environment understand that it is not a shameful thing for the victim, but it is just that, in order to avoid further, similar sacrifices, the perpetrator is held accountable and I stress that he should be cured and cured. Such behavior is practiced by many people who have a beautiful family life, a woman, a lot of children, the most prominent social person in the community, and we do not even remember that, by the way, when it comes to being alone with a 6-7-year-old girl, what sexual desires prevail over it. There are extremely many people who have these desires, but they may have a self-control, and they can hold back a bit to do something criminal, but they still have that quality. And any time these people get into a situation where they hope or think that their satisfaction will not be revealed, the victim will not be able to talk about it, and there will be eternal silence, eternal vision. I also think that this proposal should have been tabled much earlier. I think not three, four, five, ten years ago, but, for example, when within churches, sexual harassment of young people and the behaviour of different churchmen were increasingly heard about in general and on a regular basis. What did these phenomena say? They said that in a very closed micro-communist, these kinds of sexual behaviors are likely to occur at a very high frequency due to isolation, closeness and the ability of the highly secretive organization. So we should have told the Hungarian governing parties or the parliamentary majority that we should respond to this at the time. We shouldn't have waited for the Kaleta case to wait for whatever it was called, or Bus New Year's Eve or anyone, but even when it came to the fact that there was a tremendous amount of vision in these kinds of crimes, we should have taken a very decisive step. So, with all due respect, I ask the authors, since a number of legislative proposals have been tabled by the various opposition groups to consider the obligation to treat medicinal products, because if they do not, they do not want to deal with this problem in its complexity, but they still leave it on the surface, because it is a legal consequence in itself, and the fact that the perpetrator is registered, which people and organisations may have access to, where young people and children would be supervised by the individual... So we don't have enough punishment, we don't have enough records, but we have to try to cure these people of this disease, because if we don't realize it's this, then it's really just gonna be a scrape of the surface for forever, and they don't seem to be able to solve the problem in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-01-56	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, followed by a two-minute circle.
u2021-06-01-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues! I am very sorry that Máté Kocsis had to leave, we should debate several times in Parliament about laws where there is essentially consensus. I would just like to express so many criticisms to Máté Kocsis that he argued that this law will only be applied in September, because it will have to be done with child protection organisations and very serious preparatory work. I am sorry that Pál Völner is not here, because he also argues that the reason why certain laws go through Parliament very quickly is because in practice it has to be tested, and then when they see that something is wrong in practice, we will change it. We hear this argument a lot from State Secretarys and Ministers, and that is precisely why the opposition is critically saying that this law should have been tabled not now, but much sooner, and that we had an initiative not only from Jobbik, but also from the MSZP. And we can say that we could move a little faster now, and then let's see how this works in practice, and if something doesn't work by accident, then just like the other laws, it can be modified. Many have mentioned, I would very much like to mention one thing: if we dissect this law, the pedophilia itself, it shows how badly the child protection system is in Hungary, how much more attention should be paid to it and more resources, and what we have been saying for years about the opposition side, how it should be about domestic violence... If we only mention how the warning system should be strengthened in Hungary in relation to the protection of children, because believe that we are voting in favour of this law, this will not be enough. (Dr. László Varga in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Csaba Gyüre.) If the child protection system continues to fail to function properly, this law alone will not bring the expected result. In many cases, it is, and I don't know if you've met a family or a child who's been through this trauma, these children may not be able to deal with what they've been through for a lifetime. There are specialists for this, and here I bring up not only the child himself, but also the family itself, because it is never possible to separate the family from the child. [[13.10]] When the child has a very, very serious problem, it will affect not only him but his entire family. Everyone gets hurt by a very severe trauma, everyone gets hurt by a very, very serious illness, not just the one who's hurt. This is when we say that there should be a necessary number of pediatricians, counselors, psychologists, and not only do we say that psychologists, let us say, in a general way, so that psychologists are available we know very well that in Hungary there are very few children psychologists, adult psychologists, but especially psychologists who treat children. The role of these professionals in such cases is inevitable. In most cases, they can help the most. If we do not know, and there will be no compromise in this, with the political forces, and especially with the governing parties, that at some point we will have to fully examine how the care system could be improved, and I say, here I will list the kindergarten, the protective services, the pediatricians; so I do not have to tell you what a shortage of pediatricians there is in Hungary. If we bring this one thing up, if these sectors don't play a proper role, believe me, this law won't have much effect. It's not enough just to strengthen this leg. When we talk about it, and we finally have a case that everyone can line up next to, and they say that we finally got there, and we have to make a move, because it can't be tolerated any longer, so that pedophilia can be unpunished, then I have to say that we can't look at this part of it alone. Think of it as a good thing, we'll have a record, we'll punish him more seriously, they won't be able to get out of prison. What about those who suffered? My fellow government members, do they have a study, a concept of how we are going to cure these people, these children? How are we going to get our most precious treasures out of the trauma? How do we help family members who are going through at least such horrors as they see that they should help that child, but they can't, because they don't know how to do it? If we do not have this part, fellow Members, then we are in a lot of trouble. And I'm really not gonna say these political horseback shit right now, and I'm gonna throw around who's to blame and who's not, and why it's been so long, but I'm just asking you to think about how this law might be good, because we're on the road, but we need the other leg. We need to strengthen the signal system that will fix the victims, because without it, we will achieve nothing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-01-58	Thank you very much. Like I said before, it's a two-minute lap. First, the representative of KDNP, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, may speak. Here.
u2021-06-01-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Team Leader Kocsis said that there are two roads here before the parliamentary debate. You chose the political one rather than far from me, rather than discussing concrete proposals. I have told you what steps, what legislative proposals have been submitted or submitted by the government on numerous occasions over the last 11 years, and I have listed perhaps eight of them without the need for completeness, from the tightening of the penal code to the ban on employment to countless steps that we have taken here in Parliament. Márta Demeter said that these laws were inadequate, because there was a Kaleta case, so this year's legislation was not good. Congresswoman! The law doesn't work by bringing in a tax law, and then everyone will pay their taxes from the next day, and they won't be tax evaders, but they still have citizens who break the law, against whom the authorities have to act with all the rigour of the law, discover them, and then the justice system has to punish them. I understand that you're presenting a vision here that should have been condemned by, say, Fidesz or KDNP, I don't know, sub-Mayors. That's a matter for the court. I very much hope that anyone committing such a despicable act will be punished as harshly as possible, but it is not the duty of political parties to pass judgment. Political parties can do one thing: deprive the person of all political positions if he belongs to their political party family. But Congresswoman Demeter also did not answer where this sensitivity was in the LMP when she planned a campaign tour with Daniel Cohn-Bendit and received her support, and this man campaigned here in Hungary and received LMP delegations several times in Brussels. Then how come the difference in taste didn't come out, or how didn't they speak through these actions? I will come back to some more detailed things, such as the issue of due diligence, because I think this is very interesting, and that would be a step forward, but now my time is up. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-60	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2021-06-01-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I was completely outraged by the speech by Mr Máté Kocsis, who gave in response to my speech. I told you there was one of those 17th. The former mayor of the district, who, to the harm of the child in charge of his 11-year-old foster daughter, has committed a sexual crime, a pedophile crime, both physically and mentally, has caused this girl a break, and I have listed that you, because this man is a member of your political community, because he was present as a fidesz deputy mayor, a year after these crimes were discovered, what benefits you gave and how you defended him. And then Máté Kocsis stands up here and starts making jokes about the picnic festival of the 17th. in the district. That's how serious you take these questions, that's how serious you take this pedophile case. [[With the hand of György Balla, Sit down, Number One!]] I'll tell you one more time... you, Congressman Balla, can swing at this. I told you that a year after I found out what this sexual predator had done, a year after you still gave this man 5.5 million forints' severance pay, this man was still employed in the board of two foundations to this day, and I told you here, and I also told you that he was still a member of Fidesz more than a year after the incident was discovered. He may not be a member of the Fidesz anymore, but he was a member of the Fidesz a year after the incident was discovered. And you guys are gonna start making jokes about prank festivals! I'd rather be ashamed of you and apologize for the fact that such a man belonged to your political community. They would apologize for ruining a young child's life! That's what they're supposed to be doing, and it's not that they're starting to make jokes about pranks. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Pál Völner: You talked about cooking!]]
u2021-06-01-62	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2021-06-01-63	Dear House, I do not want to make the same mistake as my fellow Members before me, and I would rather comment on the proposal that might be considered professional. More specifically, the speech by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who spoke of the need to be careful, perhaps and of course in such cases, if someone talks about something in general, it is not the specific case that is important at one of the church schools that they did not want the church to have a bad light, and they did not want the university to have a bad light. Let's be clear, and I think we can agree that there is no such thing and it cannot be like this. This is totally unacceptable. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. That is why we are submitting an amendment, and I propose that the representatives of the government support this, just in the spirit of the original proposal, so that the cover-up of this type of crime in itself can also be punished. It's a fundamental interest. We understand that there is a very high visibility in these cases. While we agree that the perpetrators must be severely punished, we will be able to act effectively against them if the institutional environment is any institution, whether it is state or ecclesiastical, or private, the institution itself acts decisively. I therefore suggest that you consider this, or, if this is not exactly appropriate, by improving it by means of a Commission amendment, but let us be clear, and I think that this is also in agreement with the instruments of criminal law that not only these acts are unacceptable and criminal, but also their apology, hiding and concealing them. I propose that we find a good legal solution in this, because I think it is absolutely in line with the common goals that we set for this bill. Thank you.
u2021-06-01-64	Thank you. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2021-06-01-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, that's just the way it is in the Hungarian Parliament to have a political debate and a policy debate. Who cares about it, who cares about it; both are legitimate here in this House. [[13.20]] I am surprised that none of the authors will follow the debate, since Gabriella Selmeczi has gone, and Mr. Group leader has gone. [[Nacsa Lawrence reporting. György Balla points to Lőrinc Nacsa.]] I'd be connected to his sentences. I was simply surprised at how sensitive the Fidesz leader has become about us throwing up the Kaleta case or any other matter here, because you said that it was actually your job to take this person out of your position, to take him out of your position, to kick him out of Fidesz, and from then on, to deal with justice, and you don't have to deal with it anymore, because what else you can do. You know, I'm surprised at that because when I was party president, there was a case that we were very ashamed of, it was my vice president's case. Gábor Simon was caught in connection with a certain suspected crime, although there is still no judgment in this case. We kicked him out of the party, replaced him from all of his positions, separated him from him, and then for two and a half months, you trashed this case against the Hungarian Socialist Party in the campaign. So in an interesting way, when we say that Gábor Kaleta's career was, after all, given a great boost in your time, they even wanted to keep this case quiet... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, did not explain in one word why Gábor Kaleta had to be secretly brought home, and even when I wanted to talk to the head of the Information Office about it, he did not even receive me on this issue, and where this matter was discussed, the committee meeting was classified. So much for how open-minded you are about the rest of the transparency. The other is that they're talking about [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How long does it take to negotiate? Well, other times they change laws and a whole system in 24 hours, and now they're talking about negotiating for months and years. Well, get your shit together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-06-01-66	We're going back to normal speeches. Congressman Bence of Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue is coming. Here.
u2021-06-01-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In the end, I am pleased that he is responsible, so also as a opposition politician and as a family father with multiple children, that there is an anti-pedophile bill in front of this House, but there are some things I do not understand. The first is timing. If there are such serious shortcomings, then why haven't you been ruling for 11 years before the Parliament? Or why did the previous anti-pedophile bill packages of Dialogue and other opposition parties be swept down? Why is this case important now to be dragged out? There are two answers to that, none of which are too flattering to you. One is that there is a campaign, and in the campaign they don't want to talk about what performance they have performed, but they're trying to show up as patron saints of children, obviously in a completely uncredited way. The other, and this also relates to the timing and the campaign, that there is something in the tube that is about to come out and that they are trying to get ahead of it, probably another fidesz pedophile is about to unfold, since we've seen a lot of these fidestic pedophiles in recent years when we look around the country. The fact that fidesz, close to Fidesz, or undercover pedophiles operate in the country and endanger children from XVII to III. Until the district, from Győr to South America, this is quite widely known, and you have never supported any opposition proposal in this regard, nor did you, when the Dialogue presented last year, so that the Fidesz Vice Mayor, who committed a pedophile crime against his own foster daughter, could not remain unpunished. The Honourable Government side was not willing to support this with its vote, so from now on, your credibility on this issue is at least questionable. Fidesz pedophiles all over the country is a serious problem. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] And the one whose house is on fire is the one who yells the best. It looks like the house is burning even more now, and they're shouting even louder. That is what this bill, which has now been brought before this House, can do. The second point is that not only have there been fidesz pedophiles in the public media of recent years, but there have also been a lot of articles about papi pedophilia. There are a lot of cases where the truth is just beginning to leak, and it seems that certain people in this country are the exception, that justice doesn't extend to them. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And you'd rather help churchmen hide and hide than be caught by the hands of justice. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't lie!]] So we looked at the bill with this view, and unfortunately, in the Fidesz anti-pedophile bill, the proposal is not so inclusive for the circle of church persons and ecclesiastical professions as to put it this way. It seems to me that it is still an apology or a matter to be dealt with within a church if, in addition to fidesz pedophiles, paedophile priests are also involved. We want there to be no double standard: the pedophile is a pedophile, and despite being close to the governing parties or even to the churches you favor, the justice system should strike him in the same way if he commits sexual crimes against children. This is why the text is rather weak, but we know that you cannot govern yourself, and you are not good at preparing quality legislative proposals, so I suggest that you listen to experts who list what is left out of this bill, which should be able to really function as a child protection package, and not only for your political campaign, but for the purposes of escape. So, since we agree with the goals, we are trying to improve this proposal and we are in favour of fighting the pedophiles as effectively as possible, but I have to say once again that you, who have tabled this proposal and who are afraid to take it faceless, since Máté Kocsis has left this room, cannot stand the debate. [[Robert Zsigó: You weren't even here...]] So the one who's been on tour for weeks... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You weren't here!]] I'd like to say that I'd like to apologize for missing the lead speakership for more urgent public service. [[György Balla: You also miss the lead speakerial round, then... Róbert Zsigó intervenes. Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] But you've been delayed for 11 years with the anti-pedophile bill, you're 11 years late... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and, yes, I would like to note that the rapporteur is able to sit through the debate. Yes, if you really want to protect the children you joined him later, Máté Kocsis will take the case, everyone knows, so if you really want to protect the children, you would accept all well-meaning professional and opposition amendments. Your intentions will be shown when you vote on the opposition amendment proposals. If you really want to protect children, support those opposition amendments. Oh, you haven't been able to support any constructive, positive, forward-looking opposition proposals on virtually no subject since 2010? [[Dr. Pál Völner: There is no...]] Well, then, dear pro-government braves, be strong, and at least in the fight against paedophiles, in order to protect children, accept the opposition amendments that my colleagues and I have talked about. If they do, then they can prove that this is not just a campaign stunt, not only the polishing of the very severely damaged image of Fidesz in the pedophile case, but it is indeed a bill designed to improve, which would otherwise be greatly needed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Robert Szigó: Shame on you!]]
u2021-06-01-68	Thank you very much. Before I could give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Pál Völner, has applied for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'd just like to make one or two brief comments. Mr Gergely Arató had a professional comment, where he wished that we would adopt a proposal with an amendment, which would be about if someone wanted to cover this up. This is currently available in the Btk. 382. Therefore, when a person tries to prevent the success of criminal proceedings, there is no need to amend them in practice. So in 2013, we brought a very good, strict Btk., by the way, the balliberal side didn't support this at the time, and where it might have been, sometimes we tightened it up and refined it. We can think of this as changing the statute of limitations, precisely in the case of crimes of this kind, which have been brought forward by our fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, or we can think of such a thing in the case of restrictions on the pursuit of employment. [[13.30]] So to say that the last ten years would have gone by without anything happening in this area is a very strong slide. The other is the use of words: I should have started my speech by saying that the pedophile dialogue, because you want to pair whole groups and parties with this constant sign, is a very back-to-back story. I think when we talk about the subject, [[Bence of Turdai: I said fidesz pedophile.]] And we're really talking about how this situation can be improved, so we can get caught up in this kind of personalism and stigma, but I don't think that's gonna get us anywhere. I ask that, if we receive professional proposals from this author Matthew Kocsis also said, and these are agreed by the opposition, we can, of course, seriously discuss them and accept them. The other to the authors: Gabriella Selmeczi, when she left, said that she was going to a meeting on precisely this bill, and that the presentation, if she reads the house rule, could be carried by any of the presenters during the debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-70	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr. Balázs Ander, may speak. Here.
u2021-06-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Three points: prevention, victim support and punishment. The punishment is also very important, but you're talking about this third leg. I certainly don't want to contradict the moral philosophy of the Kanti, and yes, it must be said that equalizing the ideals of the crime is a punishment, and there is a place for righteous retribution, even according to such enlightened thinkers. Let the punishment be as hard as possible. So once again, we fully support the most stringent laws to be taken against sexual offenders and, in particular, against pedophile villains. But this proposal is bluffing, and our fellow Member Kocsis here can stand up, and then he can cynically criticize opposition contributions about us saying that this is what he lacks and why he is now. They've been ruling by two-thirds for 11 years. And if we say that prevention and victim support must be at least as important as hard retaliation, and in this respect there was really no progress, then let the numbers and the facts speak for themselves! In fact, it reveals a tragic picture in Hungary. Let's look at the situation of the helping professions, let's say, in kindergarten or in school social workers or social educators in this regard. They'd be the community gatekeepers who, as a mental health professional, might be able to protect these little kids and help them. Let's see how much money the Hungarian state is giving them. Everything is pinned around the neck of stressed, frustrated educators, who, in many cases, are clearly unable to deal with this problem, so it would be good to focus on this too. And the other is that our fellow Member, Mr Kocsis, criticized why we are throwing it in your eyes, why now. Because chronology is a very important thing. Five years have passed only since we submitted a proposal on 18 May 2016 relating to the registration and database of monsters who committed sexual crimes. They swept him off the table. If we bring these things up in such a debate, I think we may have the right to do so. Then let us also look at the so - called constructive proposals that have been missed. I've got it, I've got it! At the meeting of the Justice Committee in March, the proposal was also swept off with the justification that a comprehensive package is being prepared; here we have a package that we will support, I say once again, we feel some shortcomings, but nevertheless, it is natural that we support it, that there is a justification for the medication, or that I should put this name in the name of birth and harsher, to reject chemical castration, that this proposal will come and solve everything. It can be a very strict prison situation, and it should be about these perpetrators, then you can argue, say, or talk, argue about the virtues of prison rehab or the right to live, let's say, in the case of regular cash drills and bar fights; and see, even a bank robber like the one with the scotch, has improved, has turned out to be a good one, and has become a ceramic or potter. All right, but these monsters, these pedophiles, they don't deserve any mercy. So let's rule that out there. But, fellow Members, at some point they will come out of prison, and if they come out, the fact is that they will continue to do what they came to do. How can the victims be protected then? A deterrent regulation is also very important. Yes, the longer the punishments, they may be discouraged by such acts. But it's not enough, because it's a devilish instinct that you may not be able to overcome. That he could be cured, I'd argue that he could be treated. How can it be treated? With chemical castration. And then I would like to set some international and historical examples in this regard. Sometime in the 1940s, a scientist named John Money began experimenting with the so-called medroxyprogesterone acetate in the United States of America. By the way, you can read about this in the Criminal Law Review. In itself, this compound name does not seem to say much to anyone, but research says that this anti-androgenic agent can achieve a reduction in relapse of such a degree, so it suppresses these instincts, which can, indeed, eventually result in many potential innocent victims being able to escape. German and Scandinavian surveys apply to this. There it is said that this rate can decrease from 43 percent to 3 percent. And if we look at the human tragedies behind the numbers, how many innocent women, how many sexually obsessed little children could be saved, let's say, then we say that this is a constructive proposal that should be dealt with. And if you knew then, and you knew at the beginning of March this year that this bill was not going to include the possibility of medication, then at least you could have put Jobbik's proposal in the trash. And that's what happened then. So, fellow Members, here is the proposal, it is very important to deter, it would be even more important to prevent and help victims, but we should also do something about these criminals that are coming from behind bars. That is what this proposal would be about. I very much hope that you will then support Jobbik's proposal in the pro-government benches. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-01-72	Thank you very much. János Volner, an independent Member, applied for a statement. Here.
u2021-06-01-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to something. If there is a political trend in which pedophilia can be protected within its bosom, then it must undoubtedly be on the left side, to the very point of view of the liberals. I would like to remind you that the LGBTQ movement has been involved more than once in similar scandals, and there has been more than once a question of people who could speak and express their demands to the public, who have begun to express wishes not only in the name of homosexuals, transgenders and other minorities that I do not know, and, frankly, I do not even care about minorities, but who have begun to talk about the reduction of the so-called age of consent. In the United States, for example, a Democratic party senator has submitted to the U.S. Congress to consider pedophilia a disease and not a crime, because they are people who are attracted to children and in fact should not criminalize their activities. [[13.40]] So I ask Bence of Tordai to be more modest when he formulates these right-wing criticisms. By the way, I do not see any party in this House who wants to make this an official systemic programme, but I do see that there are people around political power centers who want to make a breakthrough in the case of pedophilia, whether in terms of the age of consent or in terms of judging acts. For my part, I am very sorry, although I agree with Mr Ander's objective of chemical castration, I must also state in fact that they have also castrated a national party in a different way, and I therefore consider it less credible, which has now been formulated as a minority of the opposition side in this case in recent minutes. On my part, I would like to stress that I am not questioning good intentions here in Parliament, but I find it very regrettable that if the left starts to raise these responsibilities against the right. And let me tell you something else. Today, at the Parliament's prayer breakfast, there is such a thing, where several Members of different party positions have been discussed in various secular questions. One of the things that is particularly annoying to me is that we regularly see in the left-wing press that pedophilia is being washed together with Christianity. If I remember correctly, I was once based on 2019 Index articles, and I looked at how many articles the relationship between pedophilia and Christianity is dissected; I may be wrong about the numbers, but within a year, if I remember correctly, they began to connect Christianity with pedophilia in 23 articles. This basically means that those who regularly read these liberal portals they call themselves independent and objective, after a while they develop the belief that Christianity is equal pedophilia. And there is a hate switch, which is already activated in the unsuspecting reader of Christianity itself, through propaganda, and this hate switch is activated when the word Christianity is heard, even though if there is something far from pedophilia, then it is Christianity. So it is very important for me to say on my part that I find it deeply immoral and disgusting what is going on on on the left side of this matter through press colleagues. Trying to start a two thousand-year tradition and attack the moral foundation of trying to connect it with propaganda, constantly with pedophilia, is more than disgusting. So, if there is a political tradition, it is undoubtedly the left and the liberals, if there are initiatives to liberalise or mitigate the rules on this, it is always on the liberal side, and I would like to state that, factually, this is true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-01-74	Congressman György Balla, representative of Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't stop talking about what kind of Turdai Bence is right now. Ladies and gentlemen, He was almost three hours late, he would have been the lead speaker of the Dialogue, he didn't come in, he didn't listen to the expo, he didn't listen to the pro-government keynote speakers, he didn't listen to his opponents, he ran into the House, he insulted me for ten minutes, he didn't actually say a word to a proposal that was really about our children, he just insulted us all the time. Then, after three hours late, he started obsessing over why the Fidesz faction leader wasn't here while he was three hours late. What kind of a guy is he? ! The only one capable of doing this in connection with such a bill? How can you be such a figure in the Hungarian Parliament? And he's the one who's counting on anyone? ! My apologies, Mr. President, I couldn't leave this alone. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-76	Honourable Members, The two-minute circle always gives MEPs more opportunity to comment. Of course, I will give the floor to all applicants, but according to the house rules, I must draw their attention to the need to discuss this law. Accordingly, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP, please.
u2021-06-01-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again that it is a positive thing that this bill has come before this House. We have made a concrete amendment to this proposal, and I have submitted it to the ParLex system myself with my fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, so you can see how we want to better protect the safety of children and the children who have become victims of such a tragic crime, to protect them more and to ensure that they are fit for the right opportunities and rights to protect victims. I think that's the top priority. I am very sorry that, at the beginning of the debate, this has gone on several points in the direction of accusation and party politics. To be honest with you, I do not understand the comments made by the pro-government Members in this regard because, fellow Members, you have been ruling in Hungary for 11 years now. So as much as I'd like to take responsibility away from you and throw it away, you've been ruling for 11 years. So I would not go along with how many committee meetings you have sabotaged, how many times you have not participated in a debate, and have not spoken, and have not responded to the opposition's, otherwise very constructive proposals that would have strengthened the safety of people. So I really don't think we should go that way. I feel very unworthy of you trying to distract me with such things. You are in government, and it is your responsibility at the moment to accept our amendments, and to supplement the proposal here, so that we can provide as much security as possible for our children. Thank you.
u2021-06-01-78	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Now, on behalf of the authors, I would like to ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to reflect, but as he stood up, I suppose, not to exercise, but to reflect, so you have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-79	Thank you very much, and not to get out of the debate like Bence of Tordai. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now going through a general debate on a very, very important bill. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their comments, especially those who have made professional comments, supporting comments and, perhaps, for their criticisms and amendments, for presenting proposals for future amendments. I would like to thank everyone for the fact that, in this important fight and in the fight against pedophile crimes, I think that we have been able to create together a political unity, everyone who is involved in this fight, and who wants to play their part in this fight, I would like to thank him for his contribution. I would also like to respond to one or two of his representatives' contributions, while I would like to repeat what the leader of the Kocsis Máté Group has said, that we are open to the amendments, that we will look at every proposal to see how it fits into the legal order, how it can be incorporated into the current bill, to serve that purpose. Mr Kocsis also said that he would ask you, the opposition parties, not to use the amendments as a political game, which one left-wing party will support, and the other will challenge the bill for this reason, but also to have consensus on the proposed amendments. With regard to the obligation to file a complaint, I also think that we are open to it and require consultations. The cover-up, as Secretary of State Völner said, is currently part of the Btk. I agree with my fellow Member of Vada and with others who have said this, he is currently involved in the Btk. that if someone tries to cover up any crime, they must respond in the same way, and so does the Btk. It sets this as a fact. I think it's very important. [[13.50]] I wouldn't respond to Bence Tordai and Agnes Vadai's unreligious outbursts. I would like to state that there is no papi pedophilia, nor is there an engineering pedophilia or medical or legal or paternal or political pedophilia. Everyone is equal to the law, and anyone who commits such a shameful crime must be struck with the utmost rigour of the law. These are not occupational peculiarities to use such adjectives to turn this anti-church into some kind of political capital. That's all I wanted to say about that. As we have said, a number of measures have been taken in recent years, some of which you have supported, some of which you have not, criminal code restrictions, banning employment. But in four points, I can summarize our current bill on the need to establish a searchable pedophile register of those who committed sexual crimes to harm children; we also want to tighten the criminal code to introduce new classified cases to deter pedophile criminals and to increase penalties. We want to keep pedophiles away from our children by all means, so they should be banned from many jobs. There have already been such rules in the field of education and health, but we would like to extend this to various recreational areas, sports, zoos, amusement parks, there are many such areas. And we'd like to make sure that there's no slight punishment for such a despicable and disgusting crime, and there's no way to use the possibility of parole in classified cases. These are the points in which this proposal, which we ask for your support, can be summarised, and thank you very much for the fact that, if you put forward proposals to improve it, we will look at each of them honestly. I am asking you to fight this fight together, and we will all support the bill that is now in front of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend Act I of 2004 on Sport in the context of the regulation of the activity of a player until closure follows. Presentation by Mr Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; György Balla, Fidesz; Erik Bánki, Fidesz; László Salacz, Fidesz, Members T/16366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2021-06-01-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am willing to admit that the legislative proposal before us is significantly less weight than I have just discussed, and I am confident that, accordingly, the criticisms of the bill and the debate will be significantly less important, but I do not want to take away the importance of this bill, because it is a matter which I believe has not been sufficiently regulated, but plays a rather important role in the lives of athletes. We're talking about players, agencies, or the way we talk about managers and management. Luckily, in the sports world, it is very well regulated and subject to rather serious conditions as to what kind of activity anyone can do in general. For example, in the case of coaches, it is quite clear what kind of training they have to take, what they have to comply with, what they have to do, and if they are unable to complete these qualifications, they should not be coaching or coaching in the sport in question. But in the case of managers, there is virtually no such regulation, even though their presence in the lives of players is not irrelevant. Experience that for young players it is a step forward that if they can say that they already have a manager, they think it is important, and not always I think they are fully prepared for what kind of contract they conclude with. The aim of this proposal is to protect and help these most talented young players by the professional association of the sport in question, even to participate in this process in connection with transfers, for one purpose only: to make it the best possible for the player in question. For example, players often don't even get to meet their manager; before the transfer, a little bit, and then a little, but actually the managers don't follow their entire sports career. This cannot be said, for example, of the trade unions. Obviously, they don't know all the players either, but players who are, let's say, particularly talented in their youth, are in the age-class selections, yes, and I think there's a good chance that the professional associations can represent the player's interests more strongly than the managers. Let's face it, the manager's activity is a decent activity, there's nothing wrong with it, but it's basically about money, and it's not about sports careers. The manager will receive money if he is involved in the player's sale, by the way, if he can convey it to an association, if he can conclude a good, financially good contract there, and not professional progress is the priority for a manager, but that's okay, because that's his job; the problem is that he wasn't regulated by his activities. This bill is now aimed at this. There is no political motivation to be discovered in it, I think, but it is a professional proposal, which would basically prescribe or allow two things, impose one thing, and allow one thing, I think, to be precise. What it would require is that only those who announce this in Hungary or Hungary can control it in the given sports trade association; the manager would become a sports professional, so all the procedures that the association can carry out in relation to other sports professionals could carry out in connection with the adoption of this law and the entry into force of this law. The other thing that is not required is that this bill makes it possible for the relevant sports professional association to set up its own management office, and if it does not have to do so, so it is absolutely up to the professional association and whether the international regulations of the sport in question make it possible to do so; I regret that, for example, it seems that, at the moment, UEFA regulations do not allow this to happen in football, but in other visual sports and team sports, so that if it is possible, the association itself can do what the management agencies and players are doing now, so that the management agency created by the association is particularly non-profit in nature, so it has no use. This is a big difference, and obviously, a private management agency works for profit, it is the most natural thing in the world, there is no problem in that, but the alliance, as it does not want a financial advantage, but basically to build a sports career and help it, does this without any financial gain. If the association establishes this manager's office, it does not rule out the possibility for any player to have a player's own agent, but if, through a player agent or a player's agent, a player transfers from one association to another to put it simply, part of the agency's fee should be paid to the association, and the association can only use the money thus received for two things: on the one hand, re-education and, on the other hand, recognition of the parents who raised the particular athlete. [[14.00]] We all know that no parent brings their child to an association or to a dormitory in a foreign city from the age of six, every weekend he goes to the game, buys him the jersey, we can name it. It is not for the benefit of any parent, but because he loves his child. But, let's be honest, it's a big sacrifice, and if there's a way and an opportunity for the national sports association to compensate for it in some way, to reward this activity, if that child is actually reaching the level that is already having economic results, then let him do it! Ladies and gentlemen, That's pretty much what the bill before us is about, and I respectfully ask you to back me up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-82	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask him that Secretary of State Szabó Tünde wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Madam Secretary, please.
u2021-06-01-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The bill before us, through the amendment of the Sports Act to the activity of a player in the sports sector, will, indeed, as we have heard from my fellow Member Balla, launch a pioneering process in organizing and, of course, controlling the certification and transfer of professional athletes. At present, there is no legislation regulating this area, since currently the professional association guidelines in each sport support the activity of a player agent. However, with the amendment of the law, uniform regulation will be established, and the subject will be given a separate chapter in the sports law, focusing on visual team sports. The significance of the regulation is also shown by the fact that the continuation of the activity of a player agent will be subject to prior notification, i.e. by means of a national sports professional association register, the sports agency and the agents will be registered. Furthermore, it is a significant step that the professional association will monitor the performance of the activity of a player agent, and in this capacity it will also be possible to impose a fine or possibly prohibit a player agent or a player agency from acting in violation of the rules of operation. It is important to note that in visual team sports, regulation provides the professional association with the possibility to set up playful agencies in order to achieve the key strategic objectives, and it will be able to regulate and establish this through a non-profit company. Player agents and players' agencies will be registered, and will be monitored by the professional association of the sport in question, and the expected transparency in this area will also be increased by exercising the activity, setting professional and ethical requirements. The bill gives precise conceptual definitions to the player agent, to the activity, to the player agency, and to the fact that player agents will also be registered as sports professionals, it will be a precise definition of the whole process of work, and it will provide an opportunity for the professional association to initiate and conduct a sporting discipline procedure against them if the rules are violated or violated in their activities. The new rules will be applied from 1 January 2022 in the course of certificates and certifications, thus providing an appropriate period of time for professional associations and current agencies, players' agents and, of course, they will be able to prepare for the establishment of an appropriate organisational structure and the development of relevant regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The amendment of the Sports Act included in the bill ensures that in the future sport professional aspects are applied as much as we have heard from my fellow Member. In any case, the professional development of the player is in the first place, and thus will have an advantage compared to market and economic interests, and, of course, we will also support it. In addition, as regards the regulatory proposal, it also increases the professional and economic transparency of players' activities, and the government therefore supports this bill. That is why I, too, ask my fellow Members, to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It's the lead speaker's round. Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz Group, is the lead speaker. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-06-01-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Confirming the speakers before me, we can say that this proposal itself proposes changes in the context of the regulation of the activity of a player, which is sporty, sport-centred, ethical, helps to raise supplies and protects the cleanliness of sport. The bill itself correctly takes account of the current situation, it also highlights situations that do not serve sportsmanship or the development of sportsmen in the long term. After the adoption of the bill, it creates fair conditions for visual sports in relation to points of contact with players' activities. I would also like to confirm some of the highlights. I am sure that the proposal before us is in the interests of the players in sport. Today we can find, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have said, that, in the absence of a register or operational regulation, it was just right to open up a new path, since the proposal itself aims to ensure that, if an agent or agency operates in a given sport, the register is mandatory. But it is at least as important to draw closer to each other the relationship that means professional relations, because professional, ethical requirements can be expected against managers, agencies, agents, and it is very important to formulate these, and I consider it important to make changes to the fact that the national sports association is obliged to establish its own rules on the activities of players, as this is in the interest of an elementary interest and of the community. It is a good, clear, clear bill itself, that it also records wordings, definitions, makes it clear, public, and that the management and sales of players itself is a service; if we understand correctly, as my fellow Member said, it is a service. The amendment also covers the supervision of this service, as the quality of service authority itself is the national sports professional association operating in the sport sector, so it is the profession itself, so we can also say that it can be made transparent for some players in the sports concerned. We have heard today that the player will be a sports salesman, and it follows that, where appropriate, disciplinary action may not take place, either banning or fine may be imposed, and that the amount of this paid is, of course, the proceeds of the professional association. It inspires, inspires, creates the possibility that the professional association in visual team sports, in full harmony with the rules of the international sports association, see football, establish a playful agency, and, as my fellow Member put it, the income from this can be used on the basis of a non-profit principle to raise supplies and support parents. Dear Parliament, I am sure that it is a common point among all of us that every sport has a very serious responsibility to raise supplies, as young adult athletes are the pledges to the future effectiveness of any sport, and this is the joint responsibility of all of us, and this proposal is therefore particularly important. It is also important to point out that, of course, professional athletes are subject to the new legislation, and it is also important to point out that, of course, when and when they use an agency. In summary, we can say that the bill before us is solution-oriented and offers a solution. On the one hand, it is very important for everyone, but especially for athletes and the profession, it is equally important for the sports manager's profession as well. [[14.10]] On the other hand, it involves sports associations in the audit, guarantees the creation of a healthier atmosphere, we can say that everyone can actually win implementation. In this healthier atmosphere, the interests of the manager, say agent, agency and professional association are the same: as many well-trained Hungarian young people can have the opportunity, income, and therefore everyone can receive a fair contribution fee. This law provides an opportunity to strengthen the best. It also creates a business environment in which it can only be maintained fairly, with the interests of sport in mind. On the basis of the above, I respectfully request the adoption of this proposal. The Fidesz fraction thanks you for the work done and supports the changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-86	Thank you. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Here.
u2021-06-01-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The T/16366 ahead. Before dissecting the legislative amendment proposal No.1, allow me to note that player agents, player agent activity, are one of the most controversial areas of top sport, including football. In waterball, the presence of agents may not be so typical, and I think my fellow Member Nacha can confirm that. As well as the fact that anyone who has lived in sports has been in the sports world, you may know that young players usually need outside help, or a player at the trial of their contract, because their interests often do not match the interests of their club. And for this help, players, according to some calculations, take about 10 percent of the money in football out of sport. Player agents receive 10 percent and less often 20 percent of the pay of players over the age of 18 on the basis of the contracts they have concluded, and in practice they receive this money not from the players, but from the club to which the player they sided. Ladies and gentlemen, If you work well, why can't you make a lot of money with this? The problem is, however, that players at the time of the transfer, when the contract is concluded, are not primarily and experience shows this for the athlete's career and development, but often for their self-interest. This is why the present bill, the proposal to amend the sport law, is to be appreciated and forward-looking, so that in the future it is in the interest of the sportsman in the transfer, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of the transfer money, as I have said, to benefit both the parents and the sport, so, if you like, to keep this money or part of it in the system. It is also a special pleasure for me that my fellow Members, of whom I can now welcome György Balla here in the benches of Parliament, have admitted that there is a sport in which I quote the general justifications, which do not pay back the state or Tao grants provided and used for the training, development of the player. It's an important confession. I have been saying here in Parliament for years now that the current system must indeed be revised and reformed in order to promote quality training and quality work. Perhaps this proposal was also made in this spirit, which, as I said, I appreciate, but I already have my doubts about practical implementation. In the future, should the alliance be the player agent? Or can he be a gamer salesman's sports fraternity? How do you put it here? I quote the essence of this:. The national sports association operating in visual team sports, if not prohibited by the rules of the international association, can form a single-person non-profit business agency. Before I go any further, I would like to state here that football, handball, basketball, hockey, water polo, and recently volleyball are not a fortunate sport in Hungary, such term technician is not in the international sports jargon; rather, I would say that with Tao we can talk about team sports. But back to the original idea and the problem issue, what is the job of the sports associations? The main task of the sports professional associations is the membership organisations, the broad representation of clubs, and the primary task of these clubs, these member organisations, is to educate, train and manage players. That in the future, we consider the player to be a sports specialist, and subject him to certain conditions, over whom the associations otherwise exercise supervisory authority, and in disciplinary proceedings they may impose fines or prohibit them from doing so, I think that is absolutely all right. However, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State, if we consider that in the future the company created by the Alliance may also be a player agent, then there may be a situation where a player agent operating in a particular competitive sphere, in a given market, will compete with the company created by the association, which, by the way, will exercise supervisory authority over it, impose fines and, in fact, prohibit the occupation. I believe that this is in any way incompatible, but if I want to be harsher, this is unacceptable. Other conflicts of interest. What happens if an athlete doesn't want to sign off on the association's gambling company? So you're not gonna be the national team? The only reason this question arises is because the association is the employer of the federal coaches. This may be a punishment for athletes who may not imagine the future with the association's company, but with other players, because I will say again that a U17 or U19 football coach is an employee of the association, and, as a matter of fact, there may be a possibility that the election will not fall on that athlete. Not so, but the system makes it possible, and since I have tried to prepare with conscience and bring examples from the sports world here, I also recommend these anomalies to the attention of the rapporteur and the secretary of state. And then I'll go on, because from now on, the alliance can tell me where to justify me, and basically how much. I do that, say, if you log in for a talented young man, let's stick to the example of football, the team of Gyirmo and Felsút, then the alliance will decide which team the athlete will go to? With this, the association influences competition and creates tension between certain clubs as the club's representative body. And then another thing that can't be gone without a word is that the association exercises disciplinary action over athletes, whether it is an irregularity in conduct or on a sports field. Because of this, let's say, because of a disciplinary matter, one day will prohibit or prohibit a particular competitor, a competitor who is otherwise in a contractual relationship with him, and the next day would like to go to a sports club, again, even to Kisvárda or Újpest, to have Hungarian football players in the frame. But how do you think this is going to happen, and how will this happen in the future? [[14.20]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these issues need to be addressed, and I hope that the team-playing sports alliances led by Fidesz politicians and Fidesz-related entrepreneurs, supported by Tao, are guided by commitment to quality work and not by the hope of big money and the distortion of competition. I therefore ask the Secretary of State and the rapporteur, Mr Balla, to answer my questions. Among other things, that there is an international practice of this, which has now been presented to us in a legislative proposal, so there is a well-functioning example of an alliance establishing an economic company, dealing with playful activities, which, by the way, can be adopted with good heart into the Hungarian legal system. Then you should also answer the question of whom you have even consulted before submitting this proposal, either with alliances or with international, foreign players in Hungary. I believe that the rights of players in Hungary may now be impaired, that their interests may be damaged by the adoption of the law, and that is why we have asked players working abroad about this proposal, and I can tell you honestly, they were very surprised that it came up at all. That's why I'm asking you, there's a foreign example in this. And then, on that occasion, I ask you to guarantee that future conflicts of interest, as I have said, will not arise, if sports associations can also be players. Finally, I must say that if we do not get a satisfactory answer to these questions, then I will not be able to recommend the adoption of the legislative amendment proposal to the Jobbik fraction with a good heart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-06-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP is Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here.
u2021-06-01-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Madam Secretary! Hungarian sport is our common national treasure, which we can all be proud of. Hungary, the Hungarian people, are successful both in leisure and professional sports, and our country occupies a prominent position among the world's sports nations. The love of sport, whether we participate as athletes or as viewers, is capable of bringing people of different world view together regardless of political party positions and differences of opinion. In the bleachers, open-air screens or at home in front of TV sets, all of us cheer for contestants in the same red-white-green colors during international sports competitions. When a Hungarian athlete achieves a prestigious position in some prestigious international competition or the Olympics, we are all a little more proud of the performance of our own nation. If we are talking about home football, then I am not sure that Congressman Varju and I will be rooting for the same team, but when it comes to international competitions, I hope that everyone in this horseshoe will cheer for red and white and green colours and enjoy it together. Whether it is professional or amateur sport, we believe that sport increases endurance and skills. In this spirit, the national government introduced everyday physical education in public education, and in this spirit it has built up in the past ten years a large number of swimming pools, sports halls, gymnasiums and outdoor sports fields suitable for mass sports and professional sports. The amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport came to Parliament thanks to my fellow Members in connection with the regulation of the activity of a player agent. The reason for this is that currently the register and operational control of players is very different, there is no such thing as a number of sports disciplines, only the possible internal rules of the sports associations contain a provision for this, but not everywhere. Because of the different and often incomplete regulation, the bill before us is clearly a substitute. The purpose of the amendment is to establish professional and ethical expectations in line with the particular sport, if there is a player or a player's agency in the field of visual team sports. These sports include football, handball, basketball, water polo, hockey, volleyball. The proposal defines the terms of player activity, player agent and player agency, and it is stipulated that only the person who has announced the continuation of the player agent activity and fulfils the conditions laid down by law may carry on the player agent's activities. With regard to the pursuit of the activity of a player agent, the authority supervising the service would be the national sports professional association operating in that sport. As a result of this amendment, the player will also be considered a sports specialist. In this way, the sports association will have the opportunity to conduct a sporting discipline procedure against the player if it violates the rules laid down in the legislation and in the rules of the sports association. A fine or a ban on a player's agency may also be imposed under the law. The revenue from the payment of fines will be the revenue of the national sports professional association. Let's hope this happens as little as possible. In our view, this also serves the interests and strategic objectives of athletes, teams, sports and the professional association, and the KDNP faction will therefore support the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-01-90	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2021-06-01-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If I understand correctly, the President of the Handball Association has tabled this amendment proposal here in Parliament, and I have been thinking, in the meantime, that if the State Secretariat is so in agreement with this proposal, and this is a deficiency initiative, then why wasn't it submitted by the State Secretariat, because, as my fellow Member Steinmetz pointed out, I think, the State Secretariat is in constant agreement with the sports associations, so the demand must have come from somewhere. So I'm interested to know where this is coming from on the Parliamentary table, because apparently nothing has happened that would justify us discussing this right now. Of course, such a motion can still be tabled at any time, but I still wonder why this comes to Parliament now. Máté Kocsis is not here, but as president of the Handball Association, there is probably more to say to him than a reason, a reason, or an explanation for why he considered it important as the relevant sports association to submit this law. I would be happy to receive an answer, either from the secretary of state or from the author. The other thing I'd like to say at the very beginning is that we're registering these agents, that there's a control over them, that they can be counted, so to speak, I think that's okay. So if there's a normal market regulation, I don't think that's a problem. This can really help this area to function. But a little more is happening here, or much more is happening; here a very powerful state intervention is taking place in a market segment. There may also be a reason and a reason for this, and I would just like to understand it, because, as my better fellow Member has spoken about it, there can be conflict situations here, or the agency of the national trade union operates in parallel with an existing agency, which I think will end with the fact that these agencies are being pushed out, as appropriate. I would not repeat the reasons Adam Steinmetz has already mentioned. On the other hand, it is quite clear that this activity will be carried out under unequal conditions. Not to mention now, nor did the rapporteur and State Secretary mention that, as has already been mentioned, there are plenty of examples of this happening abroad, in relation to the competition law of the European Union, whether this has been looked at, discussed with the European Union that this Hungarian legislation is possible in this way, in this form. At first, I am not a lawyer, so consider me a layman in this regard, but as a person who has dealt with such matters, I think that there is a question in this about whether this is a violation of EU competition law where appropriate. [[14.30]] I'm just saying the other one at the point. Here, it was very clearly argued by the author and everyone else who commented by the governing party that, in fact, the interest of the agent is always contrary to the interests of the athlete, and, in fact, the athlete always insists on working with an agent, but then the interests of the sports professional association always coincide with the interests of the athlete; I do not think that this statement is true either, in this form. I wouldn't want to go into this long because of the shortness of time, but it doesn't always match the interests of the athlete with the interests of the national sports professional association, as has been the case in the days. So the argument that I understand is very one-sided, and they want to make this amendment proposal more beautiful, and that it is in fact only in the interest of re-education and transparency, yet I have a feeling that there must be some other interest behind it, which has not yet been discussed by the authors or the secretary of state. Let me not be right, and let the truth be that, on the one hand, it does not violate EU standards, competition rules, and that there is no partial interest behind it. I will say this suspicion once again, and let me conclude with what I started by confirming that the President of the Handball Association has submitted this proposal, not the State Secretary, nor have we been informed of the length of consultation or brief consultation with the sports associations that preceded this bill. As my fellow Member Balla referred to the debate of the previous law, we listened to the importance of prior consultation with civil society organisations, social partners, and here it seems that there has been no consultation, at least we have not been informed that any sports professional association has been consulted here in terms of visual sports or, where appropriate, it has come together from them. So if I get any information in this, I will thank you, and without it, we will certainly not be able to support this amendment for the time being. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-01-92	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju is the lead speaker of DK. Here.
u2021-06-01-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Bearing in mind that we are in an area where there has been uncontrolled interference, and you have also drawn attention to this, in fact, the suggestion of my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy, the reason why this is coming here now, I have explained it, at least as an explanation, that it seems to be a time of enlightenment. Now there are a number of laws where, at the initiative of a Member, until then, in an unregulated area, see, for example, the municipal housing system, pow, slamming a fucking big one, and otherwise they think they're going to do something about it. The previous agenda was also proposed ten years ago on a topic that was waiting for you, and now you seem to want to clean up in some way in an environment of at least a decade of international practice, otherwise I think it is right; I mean, as far as the intention is concerned, that they are finally doing something about it, and accordingly, if they are enlightened, then it is cool to do it. But what we have to look at is that the environment in which, as a state, with the power of the state, with its means, is created by themselves. We are talking quietly about visual sports, where hundreds of billions of tao money revolves, partly in areas related to construction and, on the other hand, other subsidies. So I think we're one step closer to making this an important and sensitive issue for you, and for some reason you want to influence it. What we have seen in recent times is that the Hungarian state/state party does not want to regulate in a market area that is important to Fidesz and wants to step in. And then I'm gonna be a little more objective, and I'm gonna say that with the regulatory tools, the state does have to live, and if you want to do that, then I understand your ambition. The fact that, as a state, as a state actor or as a state, you are expanding much more than I have accepted, and entering a space where state agencies are being created is another part of the story, but the important thing is that in the unregulated area, which, by the way, is being spent a lot of money on the side of the state and spending a lot of money, it is worth moving towards regulation. However, it must be pointed out that, in recent years, we have had a longer, more intensive and less intensive debate with the honourable State Secretary on how and in what way, for example, the documents of the Foundation for Upsourcing should be published. It was your ministry, you personally, who prevented these funds from being more transparent and, for example, to issue the documents of the Foundation for Resupply in the Upstairs, the organisation that spent HUF 15-20 billion a year a few years ago, supported by a judicial decision. Dear Secretary of State, You're the one who stopped it. There have been people involved in this before you, but, as you know, there is a court decision that all invoices and all contracts must be issued from around HUF 25 billion. This foundation, which we are talking about, has not fulfilled its obligation to this day. Now, if you are dealing with regulation, then perhaps it would be worth looking more closely in this area, let's just say, not hindering transparency, but extending and extending it. Now, what we're talking about here is this particular case, I'd say, in a Pharisee way, it's like they're acting in the interest of the players. The agents, by the way, I see you don't like them very much, but they're very much employed, so they should be involved in the ventilator, but let's just ignore that, they don't like them. I didn't know that, though I was very fond of him, I am a sport-loving man, and I also like football that FIFA has to pay more than twice as much in Hungary compared to its recommended 4 percent agent fee. You want to limit this, while, of course, you are constantly avoiding that dilemma in this exposé or in your national ideas, that it is as if the club wanted to bind the players to it and that it would be counterintuitive to the player's. Well, to be honest, we've seen every version of it in the past, even as news. This is what you call practically a disorder that you want to regulate in some way. I would just like to emphasise that, and I would like to sign once again that according to international practice, FIFA has been active in this story since the mid-2000s, so it has been active for more than ten years. I would therefore like to join the idea of adding, for example, a feasibility study related to this bill, what practices there are, what effects this will have, and what they expect in the future. [[14.40]] Just because I look at it from a different perspective, from the players' side to the workers' side, then this great concern that you have, is in stark contrast to the situation of those working in other areas of the market, for whom you are not so concerned. In fact, their rights are being undermined, the possibility of a strike has been withdrawn from them, and because of the possibility that is important on the part of the workers, you are extremely concerned. That is why I have said that I consider it a proper Pharisee attitude to approach it only from this side. But for this reason, I hope that player interests will also be strengthened in Hungary and that they will be able to take decisive action against such very public organisations; and in this way, the next government will have to shape the regulation later. But let's make sure we get some practice. In the end, we are in an easy position through the sports associations, you can say, although they do not share these experiences with us, because the presidents of the sports associations are sitting here in Parliament, which I find very inappropriate to be connected in this way, but if they were to talk more about it, it would be really beneficial why they would otherwise insist on doing so. In itself, what an association has experienced: frankly, I did not ask for the experience of the Újpest team in this direction, but seeing some movement and not just my own constituency, there is much more to it than you have put forward here. Of course, that's a lot of money and that's the last thought, which makes me think that your interest in this market is very active, and that needs to be brought into line with international practice in some way. And perhaps we should add the most important part, or at least to me, that young men who can get to an international area, whether through football academys or because of their talents or the professionals associated with them who can help them to do so here in a regulated environment, surely need transparency. The fact that this bill complies with this, we do not have enough experience yet, and I would like to receive further information from you. In this regard, please argue with the answers to the questions asked, so that the regulation of this area in itself can help us to ensure that young men, young boys, who first think after a winning match, want to achieve success in sport and, as a professional, can make a living from it, have the necessary conditions. I still think it is a serious problem that the Hungarian academic system does not support this, and in this respect and now I am polite not to have the experience that many players could have been created for the international competition and for the national team. But I hope that, regardless of your intentions, it will be possible to achieve real sporting success. So to sum up, we are waiting for answers to the questions, and in light of that, we will be able to decide whether or not to support the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-01-94	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I happen to see an applicant. A representative of the MSZP, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, may speak. Here.
u2021-06-01-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Meanwhile, I found out why today is the trial of the law: today is Tünde's name day. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] So allow me, Madam Secretary, to wish you a happy name day. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tünde Szabó: Thank you. Applause.]]
u2021-06-01-96	Family. Now we are going to move on and we are going to have speakers. Independent Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea may speak. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not happy that Attila Mesterházy took away my opportunity, because I wanted to thank the Secretary of State on her name's day, but she beat me by two minutes. Of course, we wish you a very happy name day, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Tünde Szabó: Thank you.]] And we are very sorry that we have to discuss this proposal, which gives rise to many criticisms, on the very day of its name in the House, and to bear the criticism of opposition representatives. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) As the mother of an athletic child, I have seen in several sports in recent years how many people actually draw the profit from the sports results of Hungarian children and the sports results of Hungarian young people may not even argue with me about this, Madam Secretary of State. Sometimes I put it this way that Hungarian children play sports in order to have a position for a number of people, who usually make a very good living in these positions. Therefore, I think that whatever kind of proposal comes before the House in the field of sport, I have one aspect: what is the interest of the athlete, because these wonderful young people in the world in the sky would not be able to produce any results on behalf of our country if they were not so incredibly willing to sacrifice, and their families would not support them in this extremely heroic and often unjust system. Because we admit that fair play is a fundamental principle, a fundamental aspect and a fundamental aspect of sport, but how many times do we face unfair situations and decisions when the athlete is the victim? Of course, I do not want to bring a daily political issue here, but I still cannot digest the change in the Olympic framework in the Fencing Alliance based on the results achieved by dagger girls. So you can't convince me that the athletes there would have made the decision based on real results. And, well, there was also a young athlete and all four young athletes, because they together, in a team, came up with this fantastic, wonderful achievement to get out to the Olympics. Because it's not just about getting an Olympic medal or a good title, it's about getting out. So there are amazing series of competitions to get drivers out of different sports in the countries. But back to the proposal: my point of view is what is good for the athlete. In the case of transfers, the associations have an amazingly broad right to examine the circumstances surrounding the legality of the transfers and the transfers, and they may even say that the transfer cannot take place on the basis of the sport law, or on the basis of their own internal rules, because the transfer is accompanied by a process which is illegal or contrary to ethical rules, to which the association says that I will not give my blessing, and that then, from the reimbursement of the educational costs, all kinds of payments must be made in such cases through the reimbursement of the various replacement costs. And this, as I see it, is very closely monitored by the associations, and they are trying to keep the transfers in a fair and fair manner, both morally and legally. And then there's this proposal that says that the alliance will create a playful agency itself. It's like I'm my own judge at a game I didn't say that sentence, I stole it from my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz, who then remembered it as he came off the pulpit, so I asked him if I could say it, because it is the alliance itself that oversees the transfers. [[14.50]] If the alliance itself is able to create the agent activity that contributed to the transfer of the athlete and, of course, to the negotiation of the sportsman's allowance, then the biggest problem is that now the legality of these will be examined by the organization who works for money, since everyone who is a player in this money-oriented relationship will be able to make an objective decision. I think that if there is a player agent activity, then it must function, whether it is an individual entrepreneur or a company, invent itself for this activity, acquire the licenses with which it may be, register itself with the appropriate organisation that I am a player agent, and when a player's agent is involved in the transfer of a player, and he allows both the player and sports organisations to make such a change, then, of course, he can receive a certain negotiated or even legally maximized agent commission. But that I don't think it has anything to do with one person in terms of status, legal status, is the alliance, because when this transfer is made, the association is there as a supervisory body, and the association can actually verify that the player was definitely acting in the best interests of the player, so the player will benefit from this change, that the price negotiated for the player is indeed justified and fair, and, most importantly, that the player is not exposed to this system in the context of the transfer. After all, it may even be possible for an association to tell a player to make this young man believe that he doesn't really have any value in the market yet, and it's a big thing that I'm just saying names now, so don't think that this has happened in real life, so I'm talking about presumption, he's telling a dove athlete to pay attention, you're glad that Fradi is taking over you at all, and then your price is just a million forints, and then I'm entitled to 100,000 forints of it. In the meantime, it may turn out that this young man has received much more money in the background, they just make him believe that he still has that much value, and that he is part of a very nasty game who, by the way, effectively performs sports with his tremendous invested energy. So I think that the alliance in this whole system should be a very strong inspector, very hard to listen to these characters, but not to be the player, because don't be angry, but I just can't accept that. I'm sure there's a reason the Ministry didn't submit this proposal. I'm sure there's a lot of money in the game transfer world. I am sure that some of the money that lands with such players, I would like to hold it, I would like to hold it, and that is probably why we have this proposal. I have seen my fellow opposition Members express such doubts as to what might be in the background, because we do not know specifics, we just suspect that this proposal was made in the interest of someone, by demonstrating that it is in the interests of athletes or that it is a system of cleaning up the activity of a player. I fully agree to that, when, for example, there is a fact that the player should also be in a position to take disciplinary action against him. It is not even a question, because it may indeed be an illegal activity, to take advantage of either the athlete or the associations. So it's okay, it's just that I don't think that the supervisory body is the founder, owner or whatever, because at this moment it becomes so insider, that there's a reason for any athlete to wake up mistrust of what it's really about: I just need money to be made by alliances and federal people and even bogus agents? So I would ask the representatives of the Ministry, if they are already in favour of this proposal, to strive to ensure that in athletes there is no mistrust. Of course, athletes do not read such laws, suggestions or laws, they are interested in one, let them train and let them develop their wonderful work in the results, so they do not have to think. But it wouldn't be good for a lot of athletes to find themselves as opposed to one of those how best to express myself? He's facing a system that's done, he's facing a system that's been created, just because he's willing to go from one association to another, and the other is interested in him, and he doesn't even see who's who in this system now, he senses that everyone wants to make money on his result or on his effectiveness. So with all due respect, though I say, I am trying to vote in favour of all sports proposals, because I am so happy that so many wonderful young people are aging the name of our country with their sports performance, but I do not see the point of this proposal so much that I think I will not vote for it. I'm so sorry, and I don't have to apologize for that, but if there were more transparency about what's really going on here, I think there would be more trust in all of us. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2021-06-01-98	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, the representative of DK is coming. Here.
u2021-06-01-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Congratulations on your lovely holiday today, too. I would like to mention a justification which does require regulation in this area, I would like to give you the example and I would like to make two tiny comments. I think that this game agent thing that we're talking about, the regulation of this is bad enough that it's so loose, and you can see it at the end. I'm vice president of an association, I was a vice president when the team played in NB I, and I've seen a little too much about how replacement training takes place, how a replacement athlete becomes a top athlete, becomes or doesn't become an athlete, and this is a separate scenario. It is true that this experience applies to football, but since my son was a top athlete in waterball, at least in OSC he is a 13th member, and my granddaughter is now a replacement, so there is experience within the family. I think that a replacement association, which is not an academy, but has all the Tao support and 16 teams, means a kid around 400, a certified player, for those children their fate doesn't depend on the coach, but primarily on the parent to pay for it. Here the main investor is not the player agent, not the association and not the state through the lake, but the parent. So in the first years, the parent here has to pay very serious monthly fees. No one's gonna reimburse you for that, not the Tao, not the player, not anyone. So what happens in practice? He's a player with a kid who's smart, he's got curved legs, he's moving well, you don't know if he's gonna get anything, but he's gonna secure himself and he's gonna make a pocket deal, and it's a general thing. So the team that has 4-5 kids with no pocket contracts is nowhere to be found. It's not a game agency yet. There are people here who recommend it, so that's how it works today. So that's how it works today, and these pocket contracts give the child the right to make it with the parent, of course, because we're talking about underage children, they're not capable of doing it in this respect, they can't sign. It's the parents' agreement that you get this much, just the rent, a lot of things the family has to worry about, and the poor too, and we'll pay you for the 12-15 thousand a month, which team, depending on the U's, the rent, we'll pay you for it, and that's all you'll get, but the child's right to play is actually sold by the parent. [[15.00]] It's still in the pocket, so it's not public yet, but the parent no longer provides for the child. He may be 8 years old, but he doesn't have the right to play free anymore because someone else has it. That's how it works today. If you don't tell me this honestly, then I'm sorry, but in the case of 400 children, I almost know exactly how you are, and I know the situation that parents are in, and it's a compulsion on the field. So he can't invest, but the kid wants to play sports, he can give him a gift by accepting such a seemingly generous offer, and then someone else will pay for this monthly fee that a team has to pay to be able to play every week and sit there or sit on the bench and be able to go to practice. It's true that I'm talking about a supply team with four training sessions a week, and there's travel costs, so there's a lot of other things, so there's an overhead, which is why there's no order in this neighborhood. They get Tao, but the Tao doesn't ask how it goes down, and how it's used, and I have to add that the track owner, right, the municipality, is already a support. Lighting, heating and many things is also a support. This comes with tao support, parental support, or player support, so there's huge money built into the kid here, and by the time he's 15 years old, there's eight years of investment in that kid, but what team and where he's going to go will be decided by another agent. In my case, the first team of these 400 children, the old U18 and U19 children, cannot get on the first team, because they are already 14-15 years old and playing in a different team. So their own team, which they're getting the tao for, or we thought they'd get the tao, is entitled to take it anywhere, and the parent of course sees that it's not taken to the wrong place, so he raises, raises, raises, but never in his own team can a child grab me almost, or if it is, temporarily. So today it is a totally unregulated, unorganized, huge money-digging area, but it also requires real sport from the local municipal government to pay, pay, pay, and otherwise nothing will come back from it. So I have reason to see something in this area as well as how it should be done. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) As for the bill, it's a surprise. I think this sports law amendment should have been taken up by the Ministry. This should have been raised to that rank, which should not have been amended by an individual motion of representatives. I think that this should have been raised to state status, all the more so, because the amendment smells of nationalisation, or let's just say it smells like nationalisation. I also see a problem if everything will appear in one place, so the interest of the transfer, the interest of the player agent and the discipline of the professional association, the right of the employer, because there is an impact on the coaches and others. So I think that together this seems rather confusing to me, and I really need to be interested once again in my environment there are additional sports associations, how this is done, how this law is applied in practice. Overall, I can say that this well-known proposal is not at the moment strengthening transparency, but will cause as much confusion as it is confusing, which I have tried to present at the beginning. For the moment, therefore, further information is needed to support this. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little hoping for the last comment, because what you said, Mr President, obviously there is a lot of truth in that, but you have only ruined the end by not supporting this proposal, although I think this proposal is absolutely eligible. Thank you, Mr Steinmetz, for being at least honest, unlike other Members. The congressman admitted that he was consulting with managers. True, he said that it was not with Hungarians, but with foreigners, but it makes sense that from now on his opinion was based to a significant extent on the interests of player agents. There is no Member alone, and all the other comments were similar to Mr Hajdu's, but they did not admit that, yes, you were approached by no wonder, nor was it forbidden by the players. Without a doubt, this proposal could otherwise be in violation of the interests. I don't want to hide this. But it's not about hurting your interests. Its aim is to create an orderly situation from an irregular situation, whose primary beneficiaries are not the players, not even the alliances, but the player himself and his parents. Those people, as Congressman Hajdu has long said, have every right to make a great deal of sacrifices to make a child an athlete, by the way. I'm trying to answer a few points in substance. On the one hand, Congressman Mesterházy said that the proposal was submitted by the President of the Handball Association. I would like to inform Congressman that no, the president of the Handball Association does not have such authority; only the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament and the government can submit a bill in the Hungarian Parliament, which is why this bill was presented by the leader of the Fidesz faction, two vice-president of the faction and vice-president of the Legislative Committee, and not by accident. [[Continue in 206/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary It's interesting, too, that when you come up with a proposal, you ask why now. It's got to be fashionable these days. Well, he's got to get in sometime. What's the reason for you to get in now? We just submitted it, which basically justifies it. But if I may wander a little bit and not hurt anyone, let me give you a foreign example of football. I told you at the beginning that football is not allowed by the association to set up a gaming agency, because UEFA's regulations forbid it. So I set such an example on purpose so as not to be a Hungarian example, but there are many Hungarian examples to be listed. I think that representatives who love football have Mario Götze's name not unknown. He was raised by Dortmund his whole life. That's where he became a world-famous player, where he became a world champion. Then Bayern Munich bought it just to stop playing soccer at Dortmund, sat it on the bench for three years, while the player broke down, didn't become a selection, currently, I think, playing football at PSV Eindhoven, and one of the greatest talents of German football could be turned into a dozen players. I suggest that all my fellow Members think about it and discover that there is such a danger in connection with the transfers that have taken place recently in Hungarian sport. I don't think it's a good thing for something like this to happen. The player's interest is the first, and the player's interest is the first, because the community that is called Hungary or the Hungarian nation is the most important, that a truly talented player can unfold his talent to become a selection and bring as much success to this country as possible. I think that's obviously in the interests of sports associations, because that's why they do it. But I would add that you don't have to do such an agency, you don't have to do it in the bill; you can do it if you think that your current system is not perfect. [[15.10]] If everything in waterball is perfect, I don't think the Waterball Association is gonna make that. I fear that not everything there is perfect, but I am willing to admit that Congressman Steinmetz probably knows that world a hundred times better than I do, so I do not want to argue that the current system is working well or not. But if it's working well, I can safely say that no one wants to change it. If I listened closely to opposition contributions, and I tried to pay attention, no one argued that players' agents, managers, would otherwise engage in sporting activities, so that they would be subject to this provision, so that professional associations should have control, discipline and other rights, if I understood correctly, everyone supported this. There was only one dispute so that the professional associations could create such a playground agency, a non-profit player agency, or not. There were some points in this regard. Congressman Mesterházy asked if this complied with the EU rules on competition. In our opinion, yes; we have tried to agree on this. Unfortunately, the proposal to be exclusive to the management agency set up by the association would not have complied with the competition rules, which is why the proposal does not contain this. It's a management agency that the alliance can create on a nonprofit basis. Any athlete can join any agency, anyone can be his agent. No one's telling him to join the fraternity agency. One thing the proposal says is that if the agent has not used the possibility of non-profit service to the player, he gets a lot of money I agree with anyway, it is right, so he does it, he lives on the market, he pays part of it into the alliance, and he otherwise gives support to the parents, Mr Hajdu; the parents you are right, who spend a lot of money on time, energy and indeed money so that a child can get to the top level. Congressman Steinmetz somehow said that we admitted what he had long said, that replacement education is a loss in Hungary. I'm willing to admit it, but it's not about making it profitable. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: The quality of...]] It was about money, so I can't handle it as a quality... [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Look at the minutes...]] I think that money invested in supply sports is the most important money possible. Obviously, we all know that 10,000 or thousands of football plants will make up to a few ten top athletes, the same goes for waterball, handball, volleyball. But the fact that the thousands of children move, that they regularly go to training, that they learn discipline, that they are involved in team sports, where they learn that they need to fight, but they learn solidarity, team cohesion, rules, but also bratness, because in sports, especially in ball games, everything is needed, but all by following the rules, we can give a child a more important donation. So if I have misunderstood, Mr President, I do not think it is a mistake, by the way, that a replacement system is completely irrelevant which sport I am talking about does not generate profits, because it gives the child a huge profit. The counterintelligence was raised, perhaps also formulated by Congressman Steinmetz. I don't see any opposition, by the way, but there was a sentence that, if you'd considered it carefully, I don't think you would have said. Did it sound like the player who doesn't belong to the federal manager's office wasn't gonna be the national team? Congressman, I believe you know Tamás Märcz. Can you imagine how a situation in which Tamás Märcz would accept a situation where he didn't put the Hungarian team together, but someone told him? I don't think so. Can you imagine that Gábor Elek, let's say, will not make up the Hungarian team based on who is the best player, but the alliance will say something to him? We're talking about infinitely serious, decent, competent people. Another question is that the alliances would not obviously have such an intention, but let us assume that Tamás Märcz is a straight, vertebrate man who would never, ever let anyone interfere with the work he does. I suppose we agree on that, Congressman. Sorry, I have two more things to say, and then I'll finish it. We didn't talk about no one forcing players into any agency. Therefore, it is proposed that if he makes his own transfer, then he does not need to pay any funds, he is free to choose completely. The money paid to the Alliance is only and only part of the manager's fee that will be subject to a government decree. If someone, because his father, say, is talented or prepared, takes care of this himself, feel free to do so, and there is no disadvantage whatsoever! Several said that the role of the state will be strengthened. In this matter, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the state is what we are now doing, and it is the end of it. We're gonna make a law amendment, and that's all the state wants to do. Sports associations are not part of the state, they are not under state control, they are not under state influence. These are self-employed organisations, organisations that look to the interests of the sport. So no state influence will be strengthened. I have really tried with honor, because I also think that the proposal is entirely professional and has no political motivation, to answer the questions asked honestly and honestly. I trust that my fellow opposition Members have accepted this in a similar way, and I have been able to convince you of the eligibility of this proposal, and I ask you, of course, together with my fellow pro-government Members, to support this proposal in Parliament when it comes to decisions. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan and the joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan will follow. Government referrals T/16361 and T/16362. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister, author of the report. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-06-01-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the extradition and transit agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan, which establishes a legal framework for the extradition procedure between the two countries and for the transfer of sentenced persons. The extradition convention shall specify the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and shall settle cases of surrender by a third State or of conflict of extradition requests. The Convention provides for the application of the principle of speciality, temporary arrest, transfer or deferral of the person, the institution of conditional extradition and transit. [[15.20]] The Convention also contains provisions on the transfer of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. The purpose of the Transit Convention is to establish rules for the transfer of sentenced persons between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan in order to allow them to serve their sentence in their own country in order to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention lays down the conditions for the transfer of sentenced persons, the documents to be sent for the purpose of carrying out the procedure, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for transfer, the rules for transfer, the rules for the execution of the penalty received, the rules for the obligation to provide information between the parties and the sentenced person. The Convention provides for transit, use of languages, bearing costs, relations with other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the conventions by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the Conventions, the 1996 XXXVIII on international legal assistance in criminal matters. The provisions of law shall prevail. Conventions may enter into force only if the provisions of the Conventions are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask honourable Members to adopt the legislative proposals in the light of the above. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-104	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr István Tiba, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Eleven years ago, the Government of Hungary launched the Eastern Opening Policy. In recent years, economic and cultural cooperation has demonstrated the success of this new direction in many areas. Eastern opening is an area of great potential for cooperation with Central Asian countries. In the last year, Hungary has increased economic cooperation with countries of the Turk Council by 3 percent, despite the decline in world trade, as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. The result of Hungarian diplomacy is that a number of bilateral agreements have been reached between the governments of the region and Hungary in recent months. Tajikistan and Hungary are celebrating the 30th anniversary of their diplomatic relations next year. The country's market is a great opportunity for Hungarian companies, I am thinking about water management, the trade in live animals or the pharmaceutical industry. It is welcome that Hungary opened a consulate in Dusanbe in April this year to ensure the necessary personal presence. As a member of the European Union, we can play an important role in the future in strengthening cooperation between Central Asia, including Tajikistan and the Union in several areas. We support Tajikistan receiving the EU's biggest economic and trade preferences. In addition to economic opportunities, it is extremely important for Europe that Central Asian countries succeed in combating terrorism and extremist ideologies. Apart from excellent economic, inter-state cooperation, individual criminal cases may arise which, unfortunately, could cause legal conflicts between our countries for many years without mutual extradition or transit agreements. The conclusion of the extradition agreement creates an extradition obligation between the Republic of Tajikistan and Hungary and clearly regulates the conditions for extradition, thereby facilitating more effective action against international crime. Certain articles of the Convention comply with the internationally accepted provisions of the modern extradition conventions and the Hungarian laws in force. The Convention sets out the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition. It shall record the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request. It shall arrange cases of transfer to a third State or of the collision of extradition requests. The Convention also provides for the application of the principle of speciality, simplified extradition, temporary arrest, transfer or deferral of the person, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. It also includes provisions on the transfer of objects, data protection, cost bearing, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. The Transit Convention regulates the procedure for the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment between the two countries and lays down the framework for this. The application of the Convention will make the above procedures easier and more effective in relation to the two countries, thereby facilitating the transfer of nationals of one State party to the State of their nationality in order to ensure proper resocialisation. Certain articles of the Convention comply with the internationally accepted provisions of modern transit agreements, as well as the Hungarian legislation in force. In the Convention, Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan undertake to cooperate in the transfer of sentenced persons under the conditions laid down in the Convention. The Convention lays down the conditions for transit, the scope of the documents to be forwarded to carry out the procedure. The Convention regulates the impact of transit on individual parties, the conversion of the judgment, the information obligations of each party, as well as cost-bearing and data protection rules. The application of both conventions will therefore make the procedure for the extradition of persons for the conduct of criminal proceedings and for the execution of a prison sentence between the two countries simpler and more effective. Between Hungary and Tajikistan, Fidesz's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the two legislative proposals before us in order to address these cases clearly and effectively. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of both legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There's an extradition agreement and a transfer agreement on the Parliament's table right now. Why is this important, why is extradition important? We used to see examples in the old days when there was no extradition agreement between a state and another, how easy it was for people who were convicted or convicted in a given country to escape punishment if they had been able to catch them. They must have sought refuge in a country with which there was no extradition agreement. This is slowly disappearing all over the world, and we already have extradition agreements with all states or many states, and it can be resolved anyway, but extradition is accompanied by diplomatic and international complications, and the result is often uncertain. The legal framework must also be given, and these two conventions, which lie before us at present, are intended to provide the legal framework for this. It is very important that, indeed, these frameworks are transparent and are completely obvious to both parties, they are the same and they provide the same conditions. I think that this will be done with this extradition agreement or with a transfer agreement. What are the parties committed to? To issue to each other the persons against whom the judicial authorities of the requesting Party are prosecuting. [[15.30]] Extradition shall take place if, under the laws of the Party, it is punishable by imprisonment, i.e. by imprisonment under the laws of the requested Party, and the sentence shall be at least one year or more. But obviously, there are exceptions, such as political crimes. It is clear that politics in one country, in another country, and in the case of political crimes, if we agreed to do so there would be very interesting and very difficult situations. Especially if we look into Tajikistan's history, past or recent past, we can see that there was a serious civil war there in recent times, since Tajikistan was a member state of the Soviet Union before, and with the end of the Soviet Union, it became an independent state of Tajikistan. In effect, the moment his independence was achieved, a civil war broke out, which took place for five years. This civil war took place from 1992 to 1997, and, as a result, there were political persecutions in the country. As a result, many fled Tajikistan. This was especially the case for non-Muslim citizens, and a large number of them went to Russia and other states, especially non-Muslims. And there was frequent retaliation, political litigation, and therefore it is very important that political prisoners should not be subject to extradition or political prosecutions. Although I mentioned the history of Tajikistan, even a little bit of an interesting thing: this country was also a bumper country, a bit like Hungary. Hungary was also here in Europe, in the middle, on the border between East and West, many times in the conflict between the armies and the various interests. The situation of Tajikistan is a little similar to that of Hungary, as Tajikistan was located in the buffer zone of China and the Middle East, primarily in the buffer area of the Arab States and Persia, and so often this country has changed the rule, so to speak, that it came from the east or the west, who wanted to conquer this area. In a great battle, in 751, it was a long time ago, in the battle by the Talas River, where China lost and lost its hegemony in this zone. From then on, he was fully under the influence of Arab and Persian-Mongol, and the Chinese hegemony was removed from this area. Somewhere here, in 751, it was decided where he was going to belong. Obviously, this also determines the religion of the country, obviously Muslim, 85 percent of the population have sunni religion, and 5 percent have Shiite religion. Here, too, there are problems between the Shiites and the Sunni, and even the Shiite minority would like to break away from the country and create an independent area. Obviously, they also cause them to appear in political lawsuits, and that is why it is necessary to remove political lawsuits and political crimes from the jurisdiction of extradition. Fidesz's lead speaker also talked about the importance of economic relations between the two countries, between Hungary and Tajikistan. These threads are not strong, and the Tajik economy alone is not too strong, as one of the poorest Member States of the Soviet Union was counted, and the per capita national income was one of the smallest among the Soviet Union's Member States. I noted that Tajikistan was the southernmost or second southernmost Member State of the Soviet Union. This is also due to the fact that it has a special geographical position, and what I can say from history is parallels, it is very difficult to draw a parallel between the two countries in geography, because it is precisely the opposite of Hungary: the area of Tajikistan below a thousand meters is only 7 percent, all the other thousands of meters, and even more than half of the country is located in mountains over 3 thousand meters. So we can see that it is not exactly the most suitable area for agriculture, which is over 3,000 meters. The Pamir is obviously the most famous and well-known mountain area, which has the highest peak of almost 7500 meters, which is located in Tajikistan. Due to its location in Central Asia, as well as the surrounding desert areas, there is a shortage of water resources. István Tiba spoke about this earlier in his speech that the two countries can work together even in the field of water, this is an important opportunity, because the country is very poor in water, only 7 percent of the country is suitable for agriculture and the rest are unsuitable for this. So obviously the development of trade, the export of food from Hungary, so any such development can be very important in the future, since Tajikistan acquires 70% of its food supply from abroad, i.e. from imports. This is also a break-out point in the trade relations between the two countries, and it is therefore an important step that the relationship between the two countries is constantly evolving, which is manifested at the moment in the extradition and transit agreements. I would like to mention one more thing, and this is that there is a ban on discrimination if one country considers discrimination, it does not issue the person requested to issue it, especially if it is prosecuted because of race, religion, nationality or political convictions. I have already mentioned this, in connection with the Muslim majority and the differences in Muslim religion and the differences between the Shiites and the Sunni. They are also an opportunity for discrimination on a religious level, and obviously the Hungarian state does not wish to intervene in any form. Also, even one sentence about gender discrimination is interesting: in Tajikistan, 25 percent of women and girls can't even start primary school, because social tradition, gender discrimination, and enormous poverty are the reason why children, a large part of girls, are not enrolled in school, and therefore 25 percent of girls don't get into any school education. This is also a serious problem, and this can also lead to an increase in poverty in the future. We hope that there will be a change in this as well, whether it is more connected to Hungary or to the Member States of the European Union in more forms Tajikistan; it will mean that I believe that this development will start at an even greater rate in Tajikistan and will be eliminated in the near future. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports both conventions. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-01-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-06-01-109	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The extradition agreement concluded between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan regulates the procedure for the extradition of persons between the two countries to carry out criminal proceedings or to carry out a final sentence of imprisonment, and lays down the framework for this. The application of the Convention will make extradition procedures between the two countries simpler and more effective and will help to combat international crime more effectively. Certain articles of the Convention also comply with the internationally accepted provisions of the Modern Extradition Convention, as well as with the Hungarian legislation in force. Government 1143/2001. The Government's decision authorised the final establishment or signature of the text of the Convention. The Convention was signed on 7 April 2021 in Dusanbe. The parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/16361 on the announcement of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan. Bill No. 1. [[15.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan regulates the procedure for the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment between the two countries and sets out the framework for this. The application of the Convention will make the above procedures easier and more effective in relation to the two countries, thereby facilitating the transfer of nationals of one State Party sentenced to another State Party to the State of their nationality. Some of the articles of the Convention comply with the modern transit convention, internationally accepted provisions, as well as the Hungarian legislation in force. The Government also authorised the final establishment and signature of the text of the Convention by Government Resolution 1142/2021. The Convention was also signed in Dusanbe on 7 April 2021. The parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/16362 on the announcement of the Convention. Law No. 1 is also adopted. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, We support the proposals.
u2021-06-01-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, it is the independent Member who asked for the first speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Convention on extradition and transit between Tajikistan and Hungary is discussed by the Parliament, which, of course, fits into the series of agreements that Hungary seeks to conclude extradition agreements with all countries around the world in view of the fact that the number of criminal proceedings in a globalised world is very significant when a citizen from a country far from the criminal proceedings in that country or from another country is burdened with criminal proceedings. Tajikistan, a Central Asian country and a Soviet successor state, gained independence in 1991, and in ancient times it was part of the Persian Empire, so the Tajik language is one of the dialects of the Persian language, and with the influence of Uzbek and the Russian language, of course, this language became more diverse, but basically we are talking about the Persian culture and language circle, and society is also more of a Persian culture circle. Then, of course, over the centuries and thousands of years, all kinds of empires succeeded in conquering this area, from 17 to Soviet rule, and until its independence in 91, it was a Soviet republic until its independence. Here, the lowest per capita GDP in this country is among the Soviet successor states, Tajikistan is experiencing very serious economic difficulties, the social relationship has been independent, although it has not been able to meet the democratic and human rights and equality of civil rights. The fact that Rachmanov is leading the country from 92 onwards, following rather specific electoral procedures, shows in itself that this society has not really been able to take the path of Western civil democracy, but only formally. And then I wouldn't even talk about what my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre has already said about feudal social conditions. But, of course, as long as we live, we hope and hope that we will be able to honor the country that is facing the challenges of today's modern world in the Republic of Tajikistan, Tajikistan, and turn to free and independent civil rights. Extradition is an important international legal institution, but I must say that we can never ignore two very harsh international extradition issues that have taken place in the last eleven years, one of which is the murder of Azeri ax, and the second is the Hungarian hiding of the Macedonian Prime Minister. These conventions are born because we expect both countries, whether the publisher or the host or one or another of the parties to the transfer, not only to embrace the spirit of the legislation and the conventions, but also to expect that the other side will not be fooled or cheated. In the case of the ax murderer, there was no doubt for a moment before extradition that this man would return to Azerbaijan as a free man, even as a hero, because he beat an Armenian schoolmate to death with an axe, and we knew precisely that that country would not keep this man in prison for a moment; in this way, an extradition treaty and the procedure of the Justice Department gave him the opportunity to get a murderer out of prison and live as a hero in his original country. The other issue is the case of the Macedonian Prime Minister, where the Hungarian Government has done so by referring to the political criminal prosecution of the Macedonian Prime Minister or by making all kinds of formal objections against the request of the Macedonian Government, so that this man is hiding in Hungary among Hungarian citizens without being disturbed instead of subjecting himself to criminal proceedings against him in his country. There's nothing political about these things, they're just common law crimes. In this way, I can only hope that our extradition agreement with the Republic of Tajikistan will not be destined to be abused by the Tajik government, the Hungarian government, or the Hungarian and the justice services that are actually crushing the spirit of such agreements and the goal that the agreements are intended to achieve. It is only natural that I will vote in favour of ratifying this convention, because it is in Hungary's interest. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-01-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if they would still like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the Deputy Minister if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] The Deputy Minister indicates that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for transitional rules in the event of an emergency until closure. The government referral is T/16367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-06-01-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For every democratic rule of law, the state may find itself facing a situation that cannot be dealt with in normal operation. Hungary's Fundamental Law also provides for rules of procedure to be applied in such situations, the introduction of the so-called special legal order. The specific feature of this special legal situation is that it allows for the introduction of a non-normal state system in the event of social and natural phenomena, when the so-called protected constitutional value, such as human life, health or property security, is in mass danger and these risks cannot otherwise be eliminated in the normal functioning of the State. The coronal virus epidemic has so far posed an unprecedented challenge both for our country and for all countries in the world. Instead of traditional instruments and solutions, according to the epidemiological situation, all states had to take specific measures to succeed in dealing with the crisis, so our country developed its regulation accordingly, in line with the special life situation. On 11 March 2020, the Government of Hungary announced a so-called special legal order under Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law, and on 30 March 2020 it also requested an extension of the emergency situation from Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. [[15.50]] The law thus made it possible for the government to establish and maintain its new rules containing extraordinary provisions even if the Parliament does not meet for any reason related to the epidemic. At the same time, the Act also authorised Parliament to revoke the mandate given to the Government at any time. Thanks to the mandates, the Government of Hungary was able to take rapid and effective measures. Looking back more than a year later, we can say that protection has been effective, protection against the coronal virus, both in terms of life and health, and in terms of protecting the economy and jobs. Thanks to the sacrifice and discipline of the Hungarians, the epidemic was reduced last summer by the year 2020 LVII. Parliament may have decided by law to end the emergency. In addition, the requirement for legal certainty required that the termination of the emergency and the expiry of the emergency government regulations should not take place in the absence of appropriate transitional provisions, which was provided for in the Act on the Temporary Rules for the Elimination of an Emergency and the Act on Disease Control. Unfortunately, the coronal virus epidemic has already renewed its effects in the autumn, with a new wave throughout Europe. Our goal in the fight against the virus that attacked much more intensively than the first wave was to save lives, which required rapid decision-making and action. In order to do this, the government had to ask for permission from the Parliament once again. At the time of the creation of the second authorisation law, it was already clear what the key to combating the epidemic could be: the procedure for the authorisation of vaccines was already at an advanced stage. Thus, as opposed to the first authorisation law, which granted the Government special rights until the Parliament had withdrawn it, and which was finally in force for 99 days, the prevention of the epidemic was within reach at the time of the second mandate. According to this, the law granted that authority for a limited period of time. The months following the vote of the Second Delegated Act on 11 November 2020 demonstrated that the exceptional and transitional legal framework adopted earlier served well the government's objectives of safeguarding human life, health, reducing economic damage and protecting jobs. Our most important endeavour was to leave the epidemic period behind quickly, so the government proposed to extend the scope of its emergency regulations, which the National Assembly created in the year 2021 Act I. Unfortunately, as in previous stages of defence, these legislative acts were burdened with political debates, even though they were already quite clear, and looking back, it is even more clear that they were necessary and proportionate to the defence. In other countries, domestic political battles have not been accompanied by the creation of these empowering laws. Following this, Hungary fought with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes against the coronal virus epidemic. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] The Hungarian vaccination strategy fulfilled the expectations so much that on 8 March the number of vaccinated people exceeded one million people, this number reached two million people on 30 March, on 13 April we were at three million people, on 30 April we were talking about four million people, and on 22 May the number of vaccinated people increased to five million, so the third wave of the epidemic was also broken thanks to the vaccinations. Today, more than 50 percent of Hungarians are protected, and our country is now a more protected and safer country from an epidemiological point of view than our neighbours or any Western European country. Thanks to the implementation of the successful vaccination plan, we have gradually, step by step reduced the strict protection restrictions introduced, so that we can finally get back to our normal life before the outbreak as soon as possible and as fully as possible. Thanks to these results, the removal of the emergency is now within reach of us, but responsible legislation once again requires that some of the rules that have become part of our lives do not come out of the legal system overnight with the end of the emergency, but gradually, while ensuring sufficient preparation time. The purpose of the bill on the table is to ensure that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation in recent months, the Parliament regulates the legal relations in the event of an emergency so as to ensure a clear and predictable regulatory transition. This concerns the following issues: in the case of judicial staff, judges and prosecutors, and in the case of the judicial and prosecutor's organisation, we have previously established rules that have allowed temporary individual and corporate appointments and mandates to extend until the end of the emergency. As with other rules in other areas, in proceedings governed by the law governing judicial order in the system of justice during an emergency, the starting point for emergency regulation was, as a general rule, that procedures could be initiated and continued during an emergency. However, if the initiation or continuation of the procedure is hindered, both the time limit available and the time allowed to carry out the proceedings shall resume on the day following the end of the emergency. The bill is intended to continue or introduce these provisions, with a codification solution which is very similar to last year's law. Public bodies, such as self-organizing and self-regulating entities in the practice of self-government, have also received significant benefits during emergency situations. As in the case of procedural rules, emergency provisions have provided for a wide range of electronic administration in public body matters. In addition, the executive officials of the public bodies have been temporarily authorised to derogate from the regulatory rules in order to avoid and mitigate the effects of the epidemic on membership of the public body. In addition, the appointment of the appointees was extended until the emergency was resolved. Many of the facilitations presented are justified regardless of the emergency situation, and, in order to become the normal legal requirements for effective and proven electronic administration and decision-making mechanisms, the bill will replace the relevant rules into the ordinary legal regulations and, of course, ensure that the necessary provisions are introduced to deal with the epidemic situation only. In view of the fact that the emergency government regulations concerning civil proceedings have already established rules for a gradual return to normal administration during an emergency, the bill only needs to provide for one aspect of civil proceedings. The bill lays down provisions other than those laid down in the Civil Procedure Act only in respect of the conduct of proceedings, so that if the court has already begun to sue the parties in writing during the period of protection restricted, it may close the proceedings in writing. In order to ensure that debtors of citizens in difficulty who have already been most affected by the epidemic situation do not even have to worry about their housing, the rules introduced in the event of an emergency cannot provide for the auctioning of residential property and the evacuation of property. These rules are maintained by the bill in order to ensure that this natural person's residential property is auctioned and emptied only after the emergency has ended. The regulation of the bill on financial services contracts concluded by electronic means recognises the legal declarations relating to a financial service contract concluded by electronic communications or by an electronic customer identification system as a fully demonstrable instrument and creates its guarantee conditions. Thus, by maintaining the emergency rules unchanged, the bill contributes to the use of widespread video banking and internet banking services, which in the long term facilitates the realisation of digitalisation efforts in the financial and banking sector. Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic has had a direct or indirect negative impact on certain economic sectors. [[16.00]] Temporary cessation of economic activity has resulted in a sustained loss of revenue, temporary market loss and financial imbalances in some businesses. In our view, one of the conditions for restarting the Hungarian economy is that businesses can start their activities smoothly and keep jobs. A new type of court procedure will be put in place in the bill in order to avoid the liquidation of disadvantaged companies by the courts. The reorganisation procedure under the bill is capable of dealing with financial and economic difficulties at an early stage and businesses are able to maintain the trust of their contractual partners. The coronal virus epidemic also required that, broadening the framework so far, guaranteeing, of course, the requirements of drug and patient safety, it be possible to bring the medicines needed to combat the epidemic into and apply them more quickly and easily. Authorisations are limited, but there may also be patients who are able to be treated with medicinal products so authorised during the period of the epidemic, and it is therefore appropriate to provide for an extension. Other provisions. The aim of small settlements of less than 2 thousand people is to increase the population retention power of the support facility launched under the economic re-launch action plan, to expand the range of services for businesses operating or operating in such settlements. One of the supported activities is the marketing of medicines that can be given without a prescription, which can be provided by the nearest pharmacy to the store, as the interests of low-traffic pharmacies, which are also in difficulty, will not be harmed. The existence of a monthly report on the fulfilment of the vocational training of a resident is subject to the conditions for the payment of the allowance for specialist training, since, from 1 January 2021, an accredited healthcare provider became the employer of residents and should therefore be subject to the reporting obligation. That's what the bill settles. Further clarification can be found in the proposal in the context of the Health Services Service Law. These are intended to facilitate the application of the law both for periods to be included in the service relationship and for the job and payment classification of health professionals. The bill before you also includes amendments to the law on national higher education. During the emergency period, it is appropriate to maintain in place provisions that go beyond the emergency situation, such as the possibility for higher education institutions to extend the semester or to extend the submission of the doctoral dissertation, or possibly the possibility of health screening of students. However, I would like to highlight one element of the amendment separately. In addition to health care workers, education and training workers in educational and educational institutions, social institutions and daycare workers, students of the coronal virus were successfully involved in screening. Covid screening also provided them with valuable professional experience. Thanking the students for their work, we want to create a legal institution for health screening with similar professional experience. Fortunately, mass Covid screening of teachers is no longer necessary, but maintaining good regulation in terms of public health screening is justified, and if the health student voluntarily decides to participate as part of their training, we want to support this. The measures taken to prevent and remedy the consequences of a pandemic caused by a coronal virus have affected the public finances system and its actors at a number of points, as well as non-state actors in a state aid relationship. Due to the diseases, the employees of the local government offices were not, or were only late, able to fulfil some of their reporting obligations which are relevant to the functioning of public finances, so the Hungarian Treasury should have imposed a fine because of the government rules in force. However, in the event of an emergency announced by the Government, these municipal offices, if they were able to demonstrate that they could not fulfil their reporting obligations due to an emergency reason, could refrain from imposing fines and subsequently fulfil these data services. Although the epidemic situation is improving, this allowing provision should continue to be maintained in order to ease the burden on municipalities. However, the corona virus has affected not only local authorities but also beneficiaries of aid with the State. Due to the diversity of aids, the aided activity, i.e. the periods open to the achievement of the aid objective, has been extended as a general principle for the status of aid in the event of an emergency. The extension of the time limit of a general nature has resulted, and with the adoption of the bill, that the actors in the grant relationship do not need to examine, initiate the extension of the deadline, they will by force extend by 180 days, of course only to aid granted from the domestic budget. In December 2020, the Government decided to establish a so-called investment fund, a reserve, centralised appropriation to prepare and assist the completion of the works resulting in the increase or improvement of direct or indirect public or municipal assets, as well as the provision of construction aid to other entities and the coverage of real estate directly necessary for the investment. A new structure, which is part of the bill and is based on the Public Finance Act, has been created and will be maintained in support of the bill, which will also ensure the financing of these municipal or state investments in accordance with a uniform procedure, with an effective asset increase. It is clear from the bill that this measure represents a mitigation of the adverse consequences of the virus, which is clearly and closely linked to the relaunch of the Hungarian economy. The government decree on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures will therefore be repealed by the fight against the epidemic and the end of the emergency. According to the proposal, the Parliament will continue to regulate relations in the event of an emergency in order to ensure legal certainty so as to provide an adequate period of preparation to overcome the difficulties caused by the epidemic and to return to our lives in the traditional sense. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the third and hopefully last significant wave of the coronal virus epidemic. For a long time, we had to live with many restrictions that made our lives difficult, but thanks to the perseverance, work and discipline of the Hungarian people, I trust that we can say good-bye to everything. I would also like to thank you for the dedicated work that our doctors, nurses and excellent researchers have done for us in the most difficult days of the epidemic. Thanks to everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic, he worked, many on the number one front line. Hungarian society has shown what cooperation it is capable of in trouble. Unfortunately, the political group that called itself the left-wing group did not belong to this circle. The Hungarian government has taken such strict measures in a rapid, timely and decisive manner, which has resulted in it being one of the few countries where the spread of the virus has been fully controlled. [[16.10]] Today we can say that Hungary is the second most transplanted country in Europe, 90 percent of those registered, and 52 percent of the total Hungarian population received one of the vaccine against the coronal virus. Recent data show that more than 5 million people have been vaccinated, 3.5 million of whom received the second dose of vaccine. This has allowed the government to gradually lift more restrictions and slowly return to normal life. Ladies and gentlemen, Government 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures As of 8 February 2021, in its Government Decree No. 20, an emergency has been declared throughout Hungary in order to prevent the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. The bill before us contains transitional provisions which are justified in view of the end of the emergency situation under the regulation and the expiry of the emergency government regulations. The aim of the bill is to ensure a regulatory transition in the context of emergency measures, bearing in mind in particular the fundamental requirement for legal certainty. Legal certainty is one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law. The implementation of the principle requires that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation, the Parliament regulates relations or legal expectations arising in the event of an emergency, so that the regulatory transition is clear, clear and predictable, with the principle of protection of trust, and that its unchanged nature is surrounded by legal guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, For the purposes of this proposal, the proposal defines the concept of enhanced protection, meaning the period between 8 March 2021 and 19 April 2021. During the period of security restricted protection, the duration of the security restricted shall not be counted against the time limit laid down by law for the submission of an objection to service and for the submission of a request for failure during the period of protection restricted. The proposal includes an extension of the validity of expired documents, which does not require the replacement of expired documents overnight, but ensures a proper transition. Transitional rules on non-compliance shall ensure that infringement procedures initiated on the basis of emergency special incident situations can be carried out in substance. As with the transitional rules for infringements, it is also necessary to lay down transitional rules for administrative penalties. The law provides for the possibility of registering individuals without a farm number, but who are eligible for vaccination, for a vaccine against the coronal virus. On the basis of the proposal, the personal data of the registered persons shall be verified in the personal data and address and foreign police records by the relevant registration body and subsequently transmitted to the operator of the Electronic Health Service Space. For the purpose of registration and follow-up, the operator of the ESZT shall link the data concerned to a technical identifier and shall then be transferred to the vaccination body. Dear House, The epidemic not only tested the health care system, but also the economy felt the restrictions. To this end, I consider it important to take all measures relating to the relaunch and revival of the economy. In order to compensate for losses in the tourism and catering sector, the Government's Emergency Government Decree of 14 November 2020 imposed a reduced general sales tax on food and drink sold by delivery or delivery during the period covered by the protection measures in respect of catering shops, where the general sales tax would be 5 per cent if consumed locally. The proposal raises this provision to a legal level and extends the provisions on reduced general sales taxes on food and drink sales by delivery or home delivery in accordance with the measures of the economic re-launch action plan in order to provide additional temporary assistance to the catering industry. According to the proposal, tourist tax on guest nights between 1 January 2021 and 30 June 2021 shall not be payable by the taxable person, shall not be collected or paid by the person liable to collect the tax, but the tax established but not collected unless it is zero, shall be declared to the tax authority. The bill also lays down transitional rules on a number of subjects, such as social and child protection rules, public burden reduction in the tourism sector, transitional provisions relating to water law procedures, different application of certain cultural funding rules, different application of the provisions of criminal law laws or transitional rules on construction. Since legal certainty requires the regulatory transition to be predictable, guaranteed by law, the adoption of the bill is absolutely necessary. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group fully supports the bill. I would also like to ask with respect my fellow left-wing Members that, if they have failed to help the defence, they did not want to help, at least to support the bill on temporary emergency rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs State Secretary, who also honoured the debate with her presence! I would immediately reply to my fellow Member from Bajka: I do not feel concerned because I am not a left-wing Member; I am a representative of the right-wing EPP Jobbik. On the other hand, your statement of apology and cooperation is very honest when you read it all out of paper. So the difference between the situation you're presenting in paper and the reality here is that you've forgotten a lot of things. Indeed, we should thank those who helped protect us: law enforcement workers, defence workers, health workers, social institutions and educational institutions. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that by several means Hungarian society has made an extremely significant contribution to the control of the epidemic. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly avoiding one fact and avoiding one of the most important facts: what Mr Orbán said in September was that the number of deaths should be monitored. You have never once dared to say that Hungary is true, it is no longer the world leader today, because Peru has modified its own data among the world's top figures on how the mortality is in proportion to the population of one million people. Mr. Secretary of State gave me the figures from the beginning of March, but from the beginning of March until now we had fifteen thousand or so hundreds of dead, which was still a painfully large crowd that we managed to increase by 14 thousand people. This is the unfortunate result of the current spring defense: we lost 14,000 of our countrymen, Hungary has unfortunately preceded the countries on the death list in a series, and very little could be shown in this period. And do you know why that was? Because you have forgotten that this defense requires more than just vaccinations. Vaccination is also a very important part of the defence, but it needs to be tested, contact research, and appropriate capacities need to be built. The last summer was here, the last fall was here, but you did nothing but do nothing about it. The people I know at the district offices have been abandoned by you to search for contact. [[16.20]] When this epidemic started in kindergartens, through schools, they simply couldn't catch up with the parents of children going to kindergarten, there was so much infection. But they knew that there could be a capacity there; they knew that there could still be extra people there. As it could have been done, the bodies of the National Centre for Public Health and the organs belonging to the county government offices could have been built in such a way that not only two people, not just three people, could actually search for contact. And the fact that we were far ahead of us in Europe, and that Austria, which is the lab, was far ahead of us by testing, was the result. Viktor Orbán let the virus dictate the pace, they didn't try to slow it down, they didn't try to detect where he was. And the result was that, unfortunately, we were world leaders in death. And the reason why we should now thank those people who were on the front line is that they protected Hungarian people in the midst of such freaky and bad government measures. And now they're bringing in the legislation on transitional provisions, and they think that everything is now forgotten, and everyone should trust you, and you're doing everything right. The thing is, there's a lot of measures in there that are very important and that make life easier for people. Perhaps the delay of eviction is one of these, that in relation to the expiry of documents, one does not have to run around to renew it right now, and there are still a lot of such rules. But once again, you have hidden things in it that, on the one hand, are against the municipalities, and the State Secretary for Health is here for a reason, preparing for a complete health restructuring. Here are those stealth suggestions, 180-181. In the section on which no one has said anything, even in the detailed justification, it is only written, combined with a lot of other legislation, that it is necessary because management efficiency needs to be increased in health care. This really shows that you are now using this to leverage political capital or leverage the whole health management system. And there's no discussion between us that our health system has been affected by the current epidemic in a bad state. The epidemic not only gives us the opportunity to try to defend ourselves against it, but also to rethink what was wrong. The opposition's door is also being banged, and I think the secretary of state knows that we have always been partners in how to make healthcare even more effective, the management and functioning of the institutions even more effective and how to protect Hungarian people. But it doesn't work that you inject a rule among the transitional rules that will fundamentally change the management of outpatient care providers, for example. So, going all the way, it's safe to say that what you put in here at the health level would be worth a separate salad law, which should have been discussed in the sector, talked to the workers in the sector; not as the healthcare service was introduced. Or talk to the hospital leaders, not send them letters from OKAY. Or we should talk to the heads of outpatient clinics about their interest in changing the management rules that way. And what purpose do they have? In relation to health service law, there has been an institution for reliability investigations. First, OKAY said that they accidentally sent out a letter that used to be a legal institution for law enforcement personnel with employment rights. Of course, accidentally, everyone believes it, and it's perfectly realistic that one of the OKFH's correspondents has a questionnaire used in the Ministry of the Interior stored on his computer and accidentally sent it to hospitals as an attachment. But then it turned out that you are making them more legal, so much so that you are already involved in the current transitional provisions; and it is confirmed that you want to continue to comply with the reliability test at these health institutions for all health workers, whether it is the defence health institutions under the control of the Minister or other health institutions. It constantly reveals among the transitional rules what is in your interest in this: it is not in agreement with the sector, in agreement with its employees, but in its own preconception that they are trying to re-assess the management of the sector. I also find it steep that the Health Act is 150. The Minister will now appoint that manager, where the management system of outpatient care providers seems to be permanently taken over from the original manager, and will be under ministerial control not only those outpatient clinics and outpatient care providers that are attached to the inpatient institution, but also independent outpatient care providers. If I understand this correctly, and I'm sorry that if I can't wait for the debate, but in the Defence and Police Committee, the military commander's hearing is now, and I'm going to try to listen to what the Secretary of State is going to say, and I'm going to look at the video footage, and I'm going to correct my own opinion, then it's going to be that again in the municipalities that are going to try to beat the dust that wanted to run their outpatient clinic in a decent and normal way. During the epidemic, you have tried to take control, in an understandable way, but now you are taking control of it, and the central government will undermine the powers of the municipalities in this regard. It is also a very interesting addition to the commitment. To the condition of the commitment, i.e. in order for a health institution to commit itself, you make provision that the government may lay down in its decree rules that make the commitment of state-owned health institutions conditional or restrict them. And this is a net underage of these health institutions. I understand that there is a great deal of hospital debt, but hospital debt can be resolved not by putting management in the balance, but by handing over good practices and remedying public funding. Therefore, if the State simply does not give enough money to carry out their proper health activities and therefore raises debt, it cannot be resolved that otherwise we limit all their rights and obligations in this Regulation. The other thing I can't even think about, especially since your special relationship with public money is always determined by the fact that if you give up something free of charge, it appears to someone that you're going to make a business and a business out of it. Well, here's the possibility of handing over the defences free of charge. You also add this as a completely new place of law, in which you say that all that you have acquired during the epidemic from the funds of the municipalities, from the tax forints of the people, although it was a small contribution, from the funds of the parties, we gladly gave, was 0.2 percent of the amount with which the parties were able to contribute to the defence, and we do not have the emphasis on the means of protection obtained, you now say that it can be handed over free of charge, to the extent necessary and for the purpose closely related to the purpose of protection, so it can also be given free of charge to external circles, so that it is not said to the health service provider as an extra-health service provider, with the permission of the head of the operational tribe. So there are thousands of ventilators in Hungary, which we do not know where they are now, and how many of which there are, I would also like to know where we stand and where we are about the thousand ventilators ordered by Hungary and installed in Hungary, Vácon. If one of your fellow ministers will be able to help me with this, I have asked a written question, and I would be very happy to know where they are and what they were. But I'll do that, you want to give these ventilators to the public service, or for a closely related purpose, I might give a company name for free, Mészáros and Mészáros Kft. Or Opus, although I don't think he's doing a lot of things other than stock market activity, then these people will follow him, and the free-of-charge assets can still continue to be donated. Otherwise, they are no longer obliged to give them free of charge, and they are free to pass them on for business purposes. Please assure me that this does not go out to give these accumulated assets to anyone who will profit from it, so that, by the way, we all had a commitment and an extraordinary effort to obtain it. By the way, it is very revealing that there is no detailed justification for these paragraphs, where these are the subject of the law. They added a detailed explanation to everything, including it in a completely meaningless, average explanation section. I also mentioned that there should have been more emphasis on consultation. And that, by the way, is a separate foam on the cake, and it is relatively difficult to understand that the current transitional rules and their entry into force are linked not to a date, but to an event that no one can say anything about yet. [[16.30]] You bind the entry into force of this legislation to when the emergency will be lifted by the government. The law on legislation, as far as I've read, has dates everywhere. So it would be possible to say something about an appointment, an exact date or a condition, because the fact that Viktor Orbán's Facebook announcement is certainly not an exact one is a hundred percent. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Government decision.]] But I'd like to tell you that. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Hungarian Gazette.]] that the Constitutional Court did, however, have an obligation to the legislator in this regard, that is to say, to give the people sufficient time to prepare. How will a person prepare, and not all 15, 60 and 180-day deadlines, but set immediate deadlines for certain provisions, how can the law-abiding person be prepared to see when the Hungarian government or Viktor Orbán announces that the emergency has ceased? Because, by the way, that may end in the previous hour of the soccer-Eb's opening match, but then all the other MEPs, usually pro-government, come in to argue on the 16th, 17th or 18th about what transitional provisions should be put in place 15 days later. Dear Secretary of State, I would also consider it very seriously, I am not sure that it will help legal certainty, and you have just described in the explanatory memorandum that these rules are being laid down so that they can be followed and support legal certainty. I don't think that's what he's doing with this. The fact that the legislative law doesn't say that one day someone's act will qualify as the date, then we will amend the legislative law, and instead of the dates, we should include such a condition as to have someone's activities, because the current Jat. He's just talking about dates, and to interpret them as a broader rubber rule, I think it raises concerns about the coherence of the whole legal system, but this, of course, compared to everything that's been going on so far, will be a maximum of empty legal proceedings. You will adopt this legislation either way. If you accept this as you are now, then you will have to face health care workers in order to put in place such transitional rules, otherwise not in a separate law, through sectoral consultation, to make rules again and through the system that will be detrimental to them, and to keep saying the opposite of what they themselves have said. Ladies and gentlemen, In closing, I can say what I said before, that I will not be here out of disrespect, but I will have to attend the hearing of the military commander, his future commander. I'll try to rejoin the debate, if I miss something, of course I'd be very happy to watch it in replay. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if nothing else, I will respond to it within a written question or other framework. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-121	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For more than a year now, the world and Hungary have been living in a new era because of the coronal virus epidemic. The past period has completely transformed all of our lives. Today, in the fight against the pandemic, we have broken down the third wave of Covid, basically defeated it. The number of vaccinated people in our country is already over 5 million 180,000. Last week, there was an age limit for reaching 5 million vaccinated citizens in the fight against the epidemic. As a result, Hungary is more protected and safer than other European countries. After reaching the 5 million vaccinees, a new phase of re-launching has been launched in Hungary, so the curfew has ceased, the mandatory closing dates for catering and shops have ceased, public masking, individual and team sports can be performed outdoors without restrictions, private and family events can be held up to 50 people, and the weddings can be held by up to 200 people, but they can participate. Outdoor events, including meetings, can be held until 500 people attend. Ladies and Gentlemen, While our goal in the last year has been to preserve lives and maintain the country's viability, left-wing politicians are to overthrow the government. With increasingly absurd statements, the united left kept trying to prevent our defense against the virus. Nevertheless, Hungarian defence is the most successful in Europe, and the Hungarian vaccination strategy is exemplary, so that the reboot became the first guarantee in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thanks to the high grafting rate, our country could start restarting weeks earlier compared to the EU countries. The fact is that 53 percent of the Hungarian population has already been vaccinated, compared to 37 percent in the EU. Thanks to the high grafting, the third wave of the epidemic has passed away, but unfortunately the virus is still here, and the Indian mutant is already present in Hungary, so the epidemiological alert is still justified. The virus is here, infecting and making people sick who aren't vaccinated. The operational staff shall continue to operate at the level of preparedness. Ladies and Gentlemen, 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures in the event of the termination of an emergency under the Government Decree pursuant to Article 53 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the Government's decree pursuant to Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law shall expire upon termination of the emergency. The requirement for legal certainty requires that the emergency situation under Government Decree No 27/2021 and the emergency government regulations are not terminated without appropriate transitional provisions being established. This is the purpose of the present bill. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation, Parliament regulates legal relations or legal expectations in the event of an emergency in order to ensure that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictable and that the regulatory environment remains unchanged by law. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat to Mr Secretary of State what he said in his expozee and to my fellow Member, István Bajkay, in his keynote speech, I would like to conclude by saying that the parliamentary faction of KDNP supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-123	Dear House, The fact is that I originally wanted to speak only to the substance of the bill, but I will not stop to make a few comments about what my fellow Members, my fellow Member Vejkey, or the Secretary of State, said in particular. One is a less important remark, but at least respect the obvious facts so kindly. On 14 May in Slovakia, two weeks ago, the emergency was lifted. Stop saying that Hungary is open for the first time! There's still an emergency here. We suspect that it will cease, that we also suspect that it will cease in connection with a major international sporting event, and we understand that, right, you promised UEFA. All right, we have to respect that football matches are a constitutional source of law in Hungary, so obviously the emergency is adapted, we understand all that, that's all right. But don't tell me that Hungary is the first to open! There are far behind us, and there are countries where there were stricter rules, and they still do, there are countries where there were already milder rules, there are some where they were previously dissolved, there are all kinds of variants. I would like to say that I do not consider the question of the quality of defence to be a determining issue of when measures will otherwise be lifted. [[16.40]] We are all glad that restrictive measures can be lifted, because they cause inconvenience, difficulties for people, but this is not a competition, it does not work by meeting the five-year plan, and it will be won by those who solve the measures at the earliest. The thing is, let us be glad that certain measures can be resolved. The other thing is more important. Talking about Europe's most successful epidemiology defense when nearly 30,000 of our countrymen died is not just a political bluff, it's an insult. I suggest you do not look at this through the glasses of political propaganda. I understand this is your main product. There are things that you can be proud of in an epidemic. I think that the country can be proud of these, by the way, primarily in the disease management, because we still believe that the weakest link in this defense was the government, and that many other actors acted more responsibly and self-sacrificingly. But please don't say that. Don't say anything that's contrary to the obvious facts. Returning to the bill itself, I must say that this is yet another exciting stage in their magical work in the event of an emergency, because otherwise it is right that this bill is in front of Parliament. Only, if that's the case, then why would a month ago in the same room, when extending the emergency, convince us that this is not the way to do it, but that the government should be given the authority to adopt it itself, which is now being passed by law, that the government itself can maintain these regulations? When we said that this was obviously an unconstitutional solution, then here, Mr. Secretary of State, in his closing words, he told us that no, that is not the case, that is the right thing to do. By the time we got to the Legislative Committee, it looks like there's still a lawyer hiding somewhere in the Justice Department or the Prime Minister's Office who explained to you that no, it's not all right constitutionally, and they took it out, and they did the right thing. And we said that the order of the matter was to bring the bill before Parliament, to discuss it, to discuss it. It was no accident that you tried not to have to argue about this in Parliament, because obviously you did not want us to talk about what is in this bill even in this very limited publicity. Let me begin by saying that there are many elements of this bill that we agree with. There is also a measure, such as the eviction moratorium, that you do not call it, which has been specifically initiated and supported by the opposition. There are measures, such as the rules on medicines, that have been specifically initiated. You said at first that this was impossible and then, fortunately, it was introduced, and now I want to keep it in force. By the way, we agree with this and many other similar rules. I don't list them all. This is the extension of the loan repayment moratorium, it draws attention to the fact that the government here regularly fails to provide information when it does not betray to citizens, or makes it unclear what risks they are taking here in the long term, but it is a great relief. There's a lot of things I can tell you that we agree with and support. There are a lot of measures that were right to take during the epidemic, but we didn't attack them, and now it's right to lead them out after an appropriate transitional period, and we're not attacking them now. What, on the other hand, is problematic about this proposal? I would just like to highlight a few points. Such a provision, which continues to maintain the withdrawal of municipal resources, in particular because it maintains the provisions which impose additional financial burdens on local authorities: maintaining the limitation of charges, releasing land use charges, and therefore measures which constitute easier conditions for entrepreneurs, we do not object to this. We object to the government ordering them, but not paying them to the municipalities. In other words, the government is having fun on this issue. This is where we love it very much, and it is very important to facilitate public procurement procedures in relation to the World Exhibition in Dubai and the MotoGP competition for the purposes of the epidemiology and the re-launch of the economy. It's part of the National Cultural Fund's fortune, or I'm sorry. non-ruled distribution of its grants. And that includes the Ah, of course. to maintain the distribution of money without parliamentary control and transparency from the investment fund. There's still a few little things, but maybe they're less important now. I must say, therefore, that we agree that this bill has come here, and indeed we welcome it. We also agree with a number of measures in this bill. At the same time, there are measures that do not serve the transparency of spending public money, but the lack of transparency, which serve to continue to distribute money without controls and which continue to help to make the situation of municipalities more difficult. However, we cannot support these proposals. We will initiate an amendment motion to exclude these proposals from the law and, if adopted, we will be willing to support the remaining vast majority of the bill. Because national unity must not be done on a matter, Mr Secretary of State, by telling us what is in the interests of the nation, but by talking about the parties against it and reaching an agreement. If there is openness to this, we are willing to do so, if you want to continue filling your own pockets and looting the local governments under this law, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, So that we have exchanged with my fellow Member Arató, it is a little easier for me, because he has touched on a number of issues that I would have done myself, so that we may be able to move a little faster in the debate, because I agree with a lot of what he has said. I have also been given a longer summary of the draft law, in which we have also listed the issues that we agree with, which we do not agree with, but since they have generally been discussed, either by my good fellow Member, or by my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, DK, and I would therefore not take this opportunity to read almost the same sentences that fully cover their critical comments or consensual thoughts. It is a certainty and perhaps this should be practiced or understood by the Fidesz Members that it may be appropriate and justified to show some modesty in the midst of such a pandemic. This does not mean that all government measures have been wrong or unsuccessful, but it is also true that it is also true that everything that you have made has not been right. Some have been brought in late, if any, or some have been left out of the toolbox, which has proved to be effective and effective in other countries when it comes to disease management. Therefore, with due respect, I would suggest to you that these terms concerning the programme of György Rózsa, at the very least... leg....., that you can only talk about everything that you are doing, that the best, the unprecedented, has never been in the history of the world, I think it would be worthwhile to refine these approaches a little bit. In fact, I even think that when this regulation was first introduced, I thought, or at least so in my own mind, that it was probably serious that we needed to make quick decisions, that I felt the kind of fear that we had in a crisis, that we were facing a danger that no one had ever experienced, that we had never seen before... [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] If Secretary of State pushes a button, I'll listen to it. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I will!]] Do it, and your head won't fall off if you're swaying too much, and you're lucky to have it glued to your neck. So in Hungarian, I think that they were serious about these measures at the time. Then, I think that they have come to the taste of this, how much easier it is to decide various questions from the government's side by regulation, questions that the Parliament could have decided, because neither the lack of time nor any other reason why it should be decided in government power, by regulation, while Parliament was still operating and making decisions. [[16.50]] Just for the fun of it, we can go to the soccer game, we don't actually have to wear the mask there, we can sit next to each other at a sold-out event; now we can go to a restaurant, everywhere. There is one thing I cannot do, Mr Secretary of State, that you know what this is, that the municipalities cannot meet, so there is no decision-making position for the municipal bodies, and they cannot do that. Therefore, I think that today it was more of a power interest, a political interest, that this situation was maintained, because, as has been said here on several occasions, the lives of the municipalities have been systematically made difficult. Of course, this has been done in a tricky way by the fact that this applies to everyone, only the difference is that the Fidesz municipalities are compensated and the opposition authorities are not compensated for these losses of income and are thus trying to put them in a difficult position politically. The other one is the same division of money, and Gergely Arató has shown many examples. It is much easier to spend resources on any kind of prestige investment or at a given moment of investment and thus serve their own clientele. So there was also a financial interest. So not only is there a technical interest in power, but there is probably also a material interest behind this series of decisions, even though, as my colleague Arató said just now, there are measures in this regard that would, of course, be supported by all sound representatives, since they can serve the interests of Hungarian families or the interests of entrepreneurs, but there are also a number of measures that certainly do not serve those purposes. So summa summarum, in our present form, also on the part of the MSZP, we cannot support this current bill, even if there are proposals in it that we ourselves have made before, or we ourselves have supported. Overall, we believe that some of these measures and the previous process, maintaining a legal environment, were in your power-political interest. This is what it is doing today, and it is shaping these laws in such a way that it will provide you with the most favourable legal environment in terms of the electoral struggle. That's all I wanted to say for now, Mr. President. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2021-06-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue, is not in the room, so we have reached the end of the speech. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Orbán, on the other hand. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-01-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council and Secretary of State, I asked for the floor in the context of a normal speech, so that, if a discussion occurs, what I would like to say should not be said at the end, without having the opportunity to react. Several of you here have missed the debate and the realistic situational evaluation discourse on disease management. There are certain preconditions for such a discourse. This is not just the case in Hungary, but everywhere in the civilised world. These preconditions are very narrow, so there is no need for many preconditions, but it is certain that the prerequisites are that we speak the truth, and we do not dispute facts, we do not bend facts, and we do not try to repack reality in our own interpretation. If this is not a prerequisite, then the possibility of civilised discourse will cease. Of course, the pandemic, an unprecedented or unprecedented pandemic for at least a hundred years, has faced very, very serious challenges in all countries, all countries have suffered losses. We have suffered losses, too, in human life, losses in the deterioration of human health. We share the grief of families whose families have died because of the coronal virus epidemic and share the difficulties of those who have suffered from the economic effects of the epidemic. But how a country defends itself in the context of epidemics can be objectively judged, both in the field of health and health, and in the field of economic protection. In the field of life and health, Hungary made the first decision in terms of correctness, transparency and transparency to include all deaths that occur in the statistics in connection with a coronal virus epidemic in the case of a detected coronal virus infection. Other countries have followed other statistical methodologies. And with regard to mortality statistics, I think this has led to a very distasteful debate, on which the left has even tried to build a campaign, in an extremely tasteless way. Since then, I am proposing to study the research of the University of Washington and the related data of other international research groups, which say that the additional mortality statistics are what should be followed in this case. The differences between extra mortality and reported cases of coronal virus deaths are very significant in the vast majority of Western European countries you have always mentioned as examples. That's because they didn't run the statistics the way they were supposed to. In the case of Hungary, this difference, i.e. the difference between extra mortality and reported cases of coronal virus deaths, is the smallest among the countries studied in Western European countries, European countries and overseas countries. So this means that we have acted correctly, we have indicated all these deaths, and if we look at the annual mortality statistics, we can see that even in European comparison, the Hungarian health and public health system has performed very well, and in world comparison it is very well. I think we have reason to be proud. Our public health workers and doctors did not deserve to receive such unworthy attacks from left-wing politicians, so let us process these data in place and thank them for their work. And the same is true in the context of economic protection. In the first moment or in the first months of the outbreak, it was still possible to say from the left that the crisis management strategy was wrong. Of course, this was not legitimate at the time, because you also had the opportunity to deal with the crisis before 2010, and, to put it mildly, it was very, very wrong, so what you said was not very credible, but then, in 2020, it would have been possible for you to be right, not to put in place the measures that the government has proposed, but to take other measures. But it has been almost a year and a half since then, and over a year and a half, statistics have been produced that also make the activities of individual countries objectively measurable and comparable. And from this it seems that the Hungarian economy was specifically among the well-performing countries in the EU's comparison to the economic downturn, it was specifically among the well-performing countries in terms of job losses, and if we look at the forecast side of things, we see that, and every international analytical institute predicts that the recovery of the Hungarian economy will be particularly significant and extremely dynamic in international comparison. In fact, the data now published suggests that even the most robust economic growth of the period after the regime change can be expected. Therefore, when you criticise the government by not spending resources for good purposes, by not pursuing an economic and job protection policy that would have been appropriate, you are arguing with the facts, because the facts show that the rate of relapse was lower than in other countries, and that growth will be faster and higher than in other countries. If we cannot agree on this, the civilised foundations of the debate are not available. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond briefly to health issues here. [[17.00]] We have received criticism of health wage increases and the introduction of a healthcare service, which I do not really understand. This is one of the very narrow exceptions of the laws passed in the last year and a half, which the left also voted for. So, if you did not like this regulation at the time, then you did not like the approach that, in agreement with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, there is an unprecedented increase in wages and renewal of legal status in the middle of a pandemic in Hungarian health care, then this proposal should have been opposed. Now, then, to bring up and claim that the renewal of the Hungarian health system and the health service relationship does not serve the needs of a pandemic defence and the renewal of the human sectors, that is simply not a position that can be held, also because one of the claims, their previous claim and their current claim are in fact contradicting each other. The other regret is that I have to agree briefly to this debate, but in the last year and a half, there could have been more points where you are helping to defend yourself. Congressman Attila Mesterházy pushed a button, among other things, because I really had to start a head-wagging against my health, listening to his speech; he was absolutely right that we should talk about it then. So Congressman Attila Mesterházy says that, then, when the first emergency announcement took place and we asked for support for that parliamentary confirmation, you saw from the back benches that we were serious about this, and, indeed, we were right. What I don't understand is that I'm sorry, Congressman, so why didn't you vote? [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Then why didn't you vote? But, Congressman, you said that it was a reasonable thing to do, that it was a normal, rational thing to do, that the government had declared an emergency and that it had asked for the mandate of the Parliament. Then why didn't they vote? And the problem is that one more mistake like this can be made, but you have gradually added these mistakes over the past year and a half. When they were supposed to support health workers, they were making camuvides. When national cooperation should have followed in connection with the rotation of vaccinations, vaccinations would have been instigated, resulting in more than two million people being less vaccinated in Hungary today, and the conditions for opening up and leading out of the emergency would not exist either. When they had to close, they demanded an opening when they had to open, they would have closed. The procurement of assets has been demanded for the first time, and since then, as we have heard in these speeches, they are constantly being attacked. I remember the debate when, before the second wave, after 99 days, we led the emergency out last year, and in the autumn, a discussion started in connection with the tightening up of normal legislation. I remember the time I was sitting here in Parliament, for five weeks we argued that masking and curfew violations could be subject to higher fines by law. We've been arguing about this for five weeks. Do you think it makes sense in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic in the middle of the second wave? [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] So what we see is that there is a need for a special legislative mandate, and that it must be used in a proportionate and objective manner; this is always the case for the Constitutional Court. But when we should have supported this parliamentary work, because it always has a parliamentary leg, because the Hungarian Parliament is the Hungarian Parliament, then you have not provided this vote of support. One final remark to Mr Luke on the entry into force is attached to what Gergely Arató says. Honestly, I didn't understand what he was saying about changing our minds about codification techniques. We recommend exactly the same codification technique that we suggested after the first wave in the event of an emergency. This was also supported by the legal leg previously adopted in this regard. Even after the first wave, we were convinced that the rules that were adopted at the level of the regulation, which are meaningfully passed into the normal legal order, should be adopted by the Parliament by law and made part of the ordinary legal order by law. That is what we are proposing right now. There was also a preventative act, it is true, but it also served to enforce the requirement of constitutionality, and it is clear that we have said in advance that you now know that the emergency can last until 15 September at the latest, but the government has been given an opportunity in law to lead this forward. Mr Luke criticized this codification solution. I'd like to draw your attention to the Jat. 7. § 3 which states that it may be linked to the entry into force of a future condition, and Article 11. § 2 says that a decision must be published in the Hungarian Gazette, which records the specific day as the date of the occurrence of the condition. I did not expect a debate in the Hungarian Parliament to arise about maintaining emergency and rapid decision-making in order to avoid the possible fourth and fifth waves until September, but if possible, the government will lead the emergency out first. I don't really understand why this is to be criticised constitutionally from the point of view of the left. One more remark, if the President will allow it: Mr harvesto said that this is not a competition. It is not a competition that when and how much sooner the restrictive measures can be lifted. Yes, it is! Yeah, it's a race. It's an international competition that has a lot riding on it. Among other things, the economic growth of this year, including the workplace of Hungarians. Nothing but these two things depend on it. We believe that this is crucial, and we believe that it tells everything about the left that they openly do not understand or think that this would be a political problem, saying that this is not a competition. Yes, it is! Because if we can inoculate more people, we can break down the epidemic first, we can resolve the restrictive measures first, we can start economic growth first, we can protect more jobs, and we can create more jobs. And this will be better for Hungary, and then the situation in Hungary will be better than the situation in neighbouring countries or other European countries or perhaps in other continents of the world. If there is something the government has been empowered to do, and if there is something that voters rightly expect from all politicians who are sitting in the Hungarian Parliament, this is it. So I would like to ask them to think once about this issue, the speed of economic re-launch, as if it were a competitive situation. Not as an internal political communication space where you can strike another one on the government, but as a national strategy competition. And if you think that there will be measures that will give Hungary a better position in this, then support our ideas in this regard! One last point: there are indeed elements in the bill that want to help re-open, such as maintaining free use of the terrace or maintaining restrictions on tax increases. We think, and in this, I know, because I have been listening for months, there is a debate between us that, in the event of a relaunch, the burdens of businesses and Hungarian citizens must not be increased, but reduced. So raising taxes, setting charges, tightening their collection quite simply cannot be done. Even though they are constantly proposing this, despite the attempts of their local governments to sabotage the Hungarian people, we will never allow them to do so, and if we have to, we will state at legal level that there is no tax in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic. Once again, it is not possible to introduce in Hungary a package of economic quotes measures that were tried in 2008-2009. And by the way, with the measures that we are taking, in any way the powers of the Parliament would be impaired, I am thinking of setting up the Investment Fund here, and I am sorry, but this position is quite simply ridiculous professionally. The Investment Fund is about making the own contribution and the advance available primarily in the context of projects carried out by local authorities. [[17.10]] In order not to draw EU funds, not to have to think in individual government decisions, to make individual budget cuts for these advances, but to develop an institution, a structure, because it is also designed to speed up investments made by all local governments by left-wing or right-wing authorities, because it also helps to restart Hungary. These decisions and the creation of a separate state fund of this type, which we call the Investment Fund, have always been government powers, in the sense that it is necessary to establish a law, and otherwise the government can decide on these advances, this is the case, and it will continue to be so. So I would like to ask you that, since there is nothing going on that would negatively affect the freedom of movement of Parliament, that is why you should also support the measures in this regard. Thank you very much, by the way, for the supporting contributions from the Members, I am available if there is any other issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-128	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani Gospodine Državni Tajniče! T/16367 on emergency transitional arrangements On 27 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided, following the inclusion of draft law No 1 as a minority item on the national agenda, that the provisions on certain house rules should be laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary Decision No 32 § 2 of the Act seeks to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill. The resolution house rule is 36. Paragraph 5 of the Act called on me to present the committee's position as a committee related to the debate. Dear Parliament, Society and the economy have been struggling with the third wave since the emergency announced on 11 March 2020 following the emergence of the Crown Virus in Hungary. I predict that the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, representing the indigenous 13 state-building communities, has given its support over the period of time to the bodies controlling the defence. Our ethnic communities view all victims of the human epidemic as irreplaceable losses and sympathize with those who mourn. We continue to express our thanks to all those who have ensured Hungary's viability and have contributed to reducing economic damage. Special recognition should be given to workers in health care, public education and administration, as well as to workers in the provision of public services. As regards the interests and rights of nationalities, our Commission has constantly monitored the government's regulatory measures. In order to protect people's lives and health, to reduce economic damage and to preserve jobs, our committee agreed to the adoption of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic, and then XL of 2021 amending it. It also supported the entry into force of law and the extension of the emergency situation. The proposal before us also serves to establish appropriate transitional legal provisions pending the expiry of emergency measures. It regulates the requirement for legal certainty that legal certainty be granted to legal entities and regulatory elements established during an exceptional period. For this period, it is necessary to regulate at legal level, including defining the period of protection that has been tightened up. The proposal also sets out the scope. The draft divides the subjects covered by emergency legislation into two chapters, sets out future emergency transitional rules in one, and separates the laws to be amended in the other. On behalf of our committee, I would like to draw attention to the national context of the draft law. I first touch on the implementation tasks and problems arising from the transitional rules. In order to ensure the purity of public life and to prevent corruption, it is important to ensure that those employed at the offices of national authorities and institutions have the obligation to make declarations of assets within an extended period. We interpret the provisions of the transitional rules relating to the smooth operation of the municipalities and to the smooth provision of the task as an extension, given that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 153. In accordance with paragraphs 1 to 2 of the Act, where the law does not provide otherwise, the laws concerning local governments and mayoral offices shall apply to national governments and officials. Proposals 72 and 73 In the event of the President's and Deputy President's vacant office, the powers of office shall be exercised in the rules of organisation and operation and by a representative of the local government appointed by the Government Office, who shall be entitled to benefits on the basis of a voluntary written declaration. Referring to what has been described above, the proposal contains 74. It is also appropriate to lay down the regulatory principle in Article 89 of the National Government Act on the Rights of Nationalities under the current rules. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Association and the Rules of Procedure, I quote that the body of representatives of the national minority self-government, as appropriate, shall hold at least four meetings per year. If necessary, our committee will also make an intention to amend this issue, because if it is sufficient for the local government to hold one meeting in the proposal instead of six meetings after the emergency has been resolved, I think it is enough for the national government to hold one or more of the four meetings as required by the task. We support the different application of certain cultural funding rules, on the basis of which the total amount of the balance generated by the National Cultural Fund during the period can be used for cultural support purposes, such as programmes and projects that broaden national cultural autonomy. Of course, here at the establishment of the temporary professional college, we also recommend the involvement of minority self-governments and organisations in the selection of members. The start-up of the Commissioner children's house and the transitional provisions related to the funding of the school service allow the funding to be increased and the cost plans can be modified, thus helping to a large extent the Roma communities to catch up. The discretion given by the transitional rules relating to the application of certain general government rules facilitates the avoidance of fines in respect of justified non-reporting. A further legal guarantee is given to national minority organisations that the duration of the implementation of their programmes, projects resulting from the current grant relationship and their related reporting obligations will be extended to at least 180 days after the entry into force of the law, and that, in the case of an extension exceeding the reference year, the amount charged with the commitment shall be considered as a residual. The provisions on certain issues of higher education also concern the ethnic professions, which can better organise their training. The temporary introduction of registration and data management rules on coronal virus vaccination will help to ensure that those employed in public education institutions maintained by national authorities can receive vaccination and legal information for the purpose of registration in order to reduce their exposure to coronal virus infection. The rules for fixing the level of local charges concern the institutions, organisations and companies maintained by the national authorities in respect of tariff restrictions. This provision is acceptable in view of the nature of public services and the financial situation of the citizens of the nationalities who use it. The rules governing the provision of free internet access services help reduce the costs of families of nationality in the field of digital education. Chapter 62 of the proposal sets out transitional provisions for the dissolution of the bodies of national minority self-governments and for elections which have not been set and which have not been set out, thus guaranteeing legislation at legal level. Dear Secretary of State, Secondly, on the part of our committee, I would like to comment on the provisions that have been drawn up to amend certain laws from the point of view of nationality. [[17.20]] Chapter 96 of the draft shares the views of the national authorities, as there have already been several initiatives to exclude from conflict of interest rules the existence of a military service with a voluntary reserve and the acceptance of remuneration. In our view, the nationality citizens who served in the military have been typically active members of our community, but the rules in force have limited their public participation opportunities. The new provision is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. The aim is to amend the law, which also allows representatives of national self-governments to establish a voluntary reserve service, and in the new interim elections they may already be candidates. For the sake of legal harmonisation, the new provision is added to the 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. Law. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. The amendment of Law 21 and 36 is affected by Articles 21 and 36 thereof. § 2 in relation to the increase in municipal property. We would also ask for this provision to be extended to the property of the minority self-government, which has been said here several times as a debate. Our Commission will consider proposing an amendment to this in order to make national government investment grants available from the Investment Fund. Our Commission considers it a priority to strengthen the rules of Chapter 112 to legal force, because the data of the census is based on the political representation of our ethnic communities and the extent to which cultural autonomy is operated, broadened and financed. The implementation of the census in 2021 had to be postponed to October 2022, taking into account the interests of nationalities in an emergency. The amendment strengthens the provision. Dear Parliament, The T/16367. In order to ensure the early entry into force of the sections of the legislative proposal No 1 there is a need for further effective involvement of the actors in society. Despite ongoing mitigation measures, we expect members of our community to use all means to promote protection. In view of the current vaccine abundance, please register for vaccination as soon as possible to protect yourself and your environment. Together, we avoid the fourth wave raised by professionals, which can destroy the results so far, which has resulted in so many resignations from Hungarian society in the last nearly 14 months. In view of what has been said, our Commission supports the regulatory stages of the draft law, in the detailed debate we will formulate and submit our position on issues concerning the social relations of ethnic communities. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-130	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-131	Mr President, Dear House, I have indeed indicated this intention in writing, as regards the speech, because we need to clarify very important professional issues, but the governance that has appeared in this proposal cannot be ignored. It is quite amazing to see the state secretary's behaviour, which has violated his own bubble of opinion, which does not hurt the Secretary of State, not just in his case, and not just in this bill. You're basically trying to bring in a lot of religious fanatical panels on every bill, while saying net crap, so the opposition, for example, is often called anti-vaccination, I understand that it's a political product for you, many times it turns out that it hasn't met reality. I also see that in a tight camp of one and a half million and two million, some mobilizing power can still be achieved, but in the long run, I'm pretty sure that both the undersecretary's behavior and the institutionalized lie factory that they've made of this whole thing will be counterproductive. After all, if it really were to protect the workplace of Hungarian people for an important secretary of state, he would have a frank debate with us about this, explaining, for example, how, in a month in April, 17 thousand of our countrymen lost their jobs, and how can it be that, while your statistics show that everything is okay and the economy is out of the way, the situation is that the numbers are stubborn things, and this 17 thousand minus at least an explanation? He wasn't here yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State, or my fellow pro-government Member, but something quite amazing happened. Post- Agenda class, again we are talking about Hungarian jobs. A Fidesz colleague stands up and begins the production report with huge praises that in his constituency Audi Hungária Zrt. how many jobs it provides, what vaccination programmes it has carried out, how important this is for Hungary. So far, we could agree, because we're not anti-bank and multi-bank. We're telling everyone to work on the basis of public burdens. The fact is, Mr State Secretary, that you, on the other hand, have once again provided this multi-company car company with a non-refundable grant of over a billion forints, while you seem to be protecting jobs in a very big voice, and not opening up these opportunities to Hungarian companies. And here, victory reports are listed over and over again in support of multinational companies, but I have not met any of you Members who would stand up and say that so many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have managed to save jobs. They do not stand up, Mr Orbán State Secretary, because your microscopic, almost unappreciable salary replacement programme at European level is not competitive. It sends a message to Hungarian workers that they do not matter. You were able to produce a rate below 5 per cent, which can be measured in wage replacement, once again, in the measurable, so not in the HUF 8,000, but what the employee sensed. In Austria, Germany, this ratio is above 15 percent, above 20 percent. You have not been competitive in this area, and you know very well that jobs are constantly being lost in Hungary. When you stand up and present the victory report that you believe there are as many jobs as, say, a year ago, you know very well that you count the one hour a week student worker as you do seasonal work, or even the one who is at home on unpaid leave. Let's not underestimate any work, Mr. Secretary. That one hour of student work is as valuable as yours or mine. But it is certain that if you bring me here with a statistical data stream that attempts to prove that there are as much meaningful jobs, taxes, contributions, as it was a year ago, that claim will bleed out in the face of reality. And when they talk about protecting jobs, they forget to explain why they didn't make up for 80 percent of the wages they lost and why families were allowed to be brutally difficult during the crisis. Secretary of State, there will be a closing. Please answer me one thing, honestly, on a conscience basis. If you claim that it is a family-friendly government and that you are trying to help the most difficult people rhetorically, then how could you tolerate 33 percent and 50 percent bans constantly in the case of the smallest earners in the epidemiological emergency? I dare to bring this here because the proposal before us is also trying to say something on the subject of judicial enforcement. I'd be very interested to know what you're saying about why, in the case of the smallest pensioners and minimum wage earners, 33 percent or 50 percent of all restrictions could be made in the middle of the emergency. When I put forward a proposal to free the income needed for a minimum living from this, why didn't you support it, family-friendly government? The attached diagram shows that no, because you have made a pact, I mean not only the EBRD pact, but both the banking world and the executive faculty have agreed, and they have basically sworn that their business interests are not violated. At the same time, we need to clarify a question in the proposal. It is about the fact that they do not want to carry out evictions as long as you say that there is an emergency. And I would like to force you to declare that there will be no eviction in Hungary until the legislative elections in 2022. Yes or no? That's a yes-no question. Can you agree with that or not? My determined goal is that in this cataclysm-like economic situation and in a very difficult situation, which is still ahead of us, people cannot be evicted without accommodation in Hungary. [[17 .30]] Put this responsibility on the government of national unity, as I hope, in 2022, and do not let people get on the streets until then; we will achieve a fair new settlement between victims and banks. Let this new account not be something that unduly robs any of the parties; it must stand on the ground of truth! And if this was born, then it is possible to talk about what to do with the debts that really exist or that are supposed to exist, but the eviction of people in Hungary should not be tolerated in a mass and institutionalized manner. Our question and our question are therefore clear: who dares to report that Hungary's Government has not implemented evictions in Hungary until the 2022 elections? So he exposes his so far allies, his executives, to some harm in keeping very, very many Hungarian people's everyday sense of security, the opportunity to thrive in their homeland. For us, this is extremely important, perhaps in recent years we have seen that we have made all kinds of questions free of politicalism, and we have tried to approach this on the ground of the profession. We are very sorry that we have still not been able to reach a consensus. We consider it a temporary victory that there are currently no mass evictions in Hungary, although [[Turning to Gergely Kálló:]] the colleague behind my back may have received a call on the second or third day after the announcement of the moratorium, a cry for help that an executive is about to unpack a family from his own home, and it is not our job to enlighten the executives that, my brothers and sisters, there is a moratorium, and you do not do that now, yet we often encounter situations that you may not, although I am quite certain that their mailboxes are filled with the help messages of the credit-damaged. They should be noticed, it is not possible to say no to complete social groups and to neglegate their requests. I therefore urge you to make a joint statement, or to submit a joint proposal about it, either way: do not evict anyone in Hungary without accommodation until the 22nd elections, and let us have the opportunity to solve this problem afterwards. Thank you for your attention and opportunity. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-06-01-132	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Other speeches will follow. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2021-06-01-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Originally, this started as a two-minute speech, but then in a twenty-minute period, the Secretary of State said about so much that I thought that there was a need to respond to more things, and also to begin immediately with a positive point that the Secretary of State was completely unorthodox in the debate. By the way, Hungarian parliamentarianism is at stake that this should be highlighted and, if necessary, thanked; the others do not, so in the closing words they tell them what they have written, and then we go on. The Secretary of State said that everything has Parliament's feet, because the Parliament, as it meets, then the decisions of the People's Assembly must be sought out, and you have actually done so. He says that we have negotiated here, from fish farming to forestry, this is last autumn, perhaps the beginning of winter, through the energy strategy, of course, through the amendment of the Constitution, let's say, this spring, to university reorganisations. It is not difficult to see that these things had nothing to do with the treatment of the pandemic, so that this is not the feet of public representation for the management of the pandemic, but this is what they used to fill the functioning of Parliament; there was something that was politically important to you, something that was cotton in this matter, something that was important financially. This is what I consider, say, university reorganisations and, in fact, the foundations were given about a thousand billion forints worth of wealth; these are under this so-called blanket, which is called a pandemic and the functioning parliament under it. The Secretary of State says it's a competition, and, you know, the truth is, in this, it's not true that I admire it, but I think I'm more surprised at the kind of confidence you say. While the whole world is trying to understand how this virus works, how social functions, social benefits, maintaining the economy, understanding, modeling, implementing its sustainability, while your government and you are confident that this is simply a competition. Well, what are we racing with? What are we racing at? Jobs must be preserved, lives must be saved. Saving lives, I think, is where a lot of people talk. What I would like to say here is that we really have to thank those who worked in health care, and we also have to thank those who worked in schools, kindergartens, elderly care, they are on the front line, but I could talk about public transport, anything. But in other ways, I don't see us winning the race. At a time when many jobs in Hungary will be lost, when their own statistics will be very difficult to prove, when we should talk about the failed competition, when in November you asked hotels, restaurants, recreation centers to close, and you promised them 50 percent wage support, and then it was November, December, January, February, and you certainly did not put support under the Christmas tree, but you had to pay a shortage order, you had to pay a heating bill, you had to put a gift under the Christmas tree, and you stood from one foot to another by your minister, Minister Gulyás, and you said that you could not pay 20 billion HUF out of the 27 billion budget; then you accelerated it. Four months, Mr. Secretary, four months. Whoever messed up that system, I don't want him to hold his breath until then, but for those who had to live on credit without paying, it was a terrible four months, and it wasn't an intimate Christmas. I think they've lost this race. But again, are you sure this is a competition? And I don't think that's a philosophical question. I know that you are competing, fighting, shutting me out, closing me down, so your policy is basically based on this, not on a better understanding, not on cooperation; you see this, of course, but it may be worth talking about. He says they're speeding up investments. I think that this is rather true that, from the point of view of payment at the end of last year, it seemed to be a good thing for the budget when it seems to be speeding up investments in Hungary. The payments went out early. By the way, planning is not the construction, planning and public procurement, it is not even in the tree line, no one has ever earned a penny on this one, not the Hungarian economy and its players.This was very useful from the point of view of payment, if I remember correctly, 2550 billion forints for these forced, accelerated investments on the 28th of December, only they do not accelerate themselves. Here, of course, we still need to think about the usefulness of these investments, because, don't you expect that, especially at a time like this, when the situation is that there are several aspects to be taken into account in an investment, let us say, first of all, to make people's lives easier, more accessible, safer, cheaper services, such as drinking water running from the tap, sewage treatment takes place, public transport functions normally, and, by the way, basically, from a hygiene, service, accessibility point of view, or in the matter of health or education, we say that these could have been of particular importance now. Now, compared to this, we see visual investments that may not necessarily serve as beautiful as a renewed space, and I even claim that it is good for the entrepreneur who does it, well, even for the fidesz politician who orders it, but I do not see that it would make life easier, calmer, safer, not least cheaper for the people living there. [[17.40]] From 700 to 800 million forints, a space of two handball courts has been renewed. I'll tell you the truth, in the meantime, there hasn't been any less plumbing, but even the water doesn't cost any less. We can build the fourth next to the third arch of triumph and it won't give us any more jobs. What I see now is that in our castle, too, I believe, there is an investment that needs to be mentioned here. Nothing else is missing from a mining town worth much better than a good dinosaur in a virtual brownfield investment, in an existing institution, for 900 million forints. Couldn't this have made the economy better? Was that the best idea? So it is worth considering, and although the Secretary of State has spoken for a long time, he has not answered a very important question for me, and I would like you to mention it. There are three, about three municipalities in Hungary today, where the mayor is fidesze, but the majority of them are usually opposition groups, or, to say the best of all, the majority of them are not opposition, but cooperation. I come from a town like this, Komlo, where it is increasingly difficult for us to understand that while you tell us that the statistics are getting better, there is a low number of infections, there is an increase in grafting, beaches open, theatres open, restaurants open, you can sit next to each other, but not in a board meeting. This is what the Secretary of State referred to as a democracy in popular representation, and you do not want to keep it, even though the citizens of the city have decided to vote in the local elections; others have been elected. And if the mayor doesn't ask for an opinion on this board, or if he asks for it, but decides otherwise, then another Fidesz can decide whether it was in proportion and in the context of the emergency. Now the mayor carries out the duties of the committees, accepts the budget, writes out the public procurements, judges them, signs contracts, signs orders, and then asks another community to approve this for the sake of the city. The same representatives, who cannot sit in a board meeting in a room of 400 square meters, will sit next to each other next to each other in the theatre next week, at any event, there will be two. They can sit there in peace. Why can't people's representation be completed, as you said, and perhaps the vote of the citizens of the city can be taken into account? And why can't we have a board meeting? Can these people sit next to each other on the beach? They can sit in the theater, sit in a restaurant next to each other? I see you're in a hurry. I see you're in a hurry. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I'm staying! So I'm free.]] So they can sit next to each other. What else hasn't been done in these cities? Since they're not ready to keep this situation going yet? What are they hiding? 'Cause if there's nothing to hide, then it's okay to call a council meeting. I don't think there's an explanation for that right now. If you do, don't be in debt to him. Be kind, tell me why you don't allow the bodies to meet, that you think that the bodies should meet, what you think comes with the mayor, who goes beyond his authority in the context of emergency regulation, has taken disproportionately decisions that have a major impact on the city's budget, institutional structure or even the spending of public funds, the award of public procurement. So I think that you are indebted to me, and of course, you know, this is going to be something that won't end when the pandemic is over. This will start when the bodies reconvene. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-01-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Bajkai, Fidesz Group.
u2021-06-01-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I think it was not a very close item on the agenda, and Dr. László György Lukács is no longer a fellow Member in the Chamber, for some reason he felt it was important to say with some self-respect that I read my speech as a general speaker, and he resented this, especially the last paragraph in which he mentioned that the left was not acting properly and that he was acting specifically against vaccination during this extremely difficult period. So just for her sake, who is now serving in another place, I'm telling you, I can say this by heart, so I don't have to read it to you. However, it was perhaps a much more important part of his speech, which the Secretary of State mentioned in his speech, namely that the number of people who died could be compared from differences in statistical data and statistical recording. I really miss the people on the left that this analytical work or this criticism I'm about to give you, they didn't do it at all. So, if we are not working from the same facts, this has also been highlighted by the Secretary of State in his speech, it is not possible to draw the right conclusion. And if the statement is used by the left, the political group calling itself the left, that in Hungary, despite the fact that it has resolved vaccination and grafting in a leading way, many people, however, do not think that this is the case, then what is the reason for that. This work has not been done, but rather various unfounded statements are made, and in fact they take an anti-vaccination and a stand against fighting the virus. They don't realize it either because of their own conduct and their own statement that they make a confession here every day outside Parliament and Parliament. Each time they admit their sins, they actually acknowledge that they are opposed to the fight against the virus, they do not support this government, they do not support the measures that serve the lives of people, the lives of families and the start-up, the rescue of the economy, too. So they confess every day, in each of their sentences, what we claim is that you are not only anti-vaccination, but specifically old or not so old, but, in any case, on the ground of general Gyurcsányi saying and political philosophy: the worse, the better, because it can be turned into a political advantage. I was a little curious, by the way, about the statement made by our fellow Member, Mr László Lukács, that this does not belong closely to the item on the agenda, but he specifically self-respectingly used a kind of accountability that he does not consider himself left-wing. Well, the one who makes an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány and sits down at a table at all, I think that he should plead left-wing himself and become part of the left-wing assembly. But it's actually worse than that. It is about the fact that the Gyurcsány party is perhaps more appropriate to use this term, Ferenc Gyurcsány's family business is in fact a giant snake than an anaconda had already wrapped, strangled and swallowed the satellite parties. And from there, from the bellies of the giant snake, some people yell out that we're not even part of this, we're different. They've been in the process of digesting, apologizing for the expression and the plastic metaphor, they've been at this stage for a long time. So what might be heard from the giant snake's belly is a very weak cry, and if not from anywhere else, for example, they could see the Socialist Party in their image, where Ferenc Gyurcsány also betrayed, stabbed and swallowed the Socialist Party, and actually digested it a long time ago. Our fellow Member Gergely Arató also stated on the basis of the principle of the better, the worse, the better, that, in fact, the government had nothing to do with defence, using the expression that it was the weakest point in the fight against the virus. [[17.50]] We do not dispute that those who work in health care and in other areas than health care, such as military law enforcement agencies, are and may be employed in schools, so all those who were on the front line have undoubtedly made the greatest sacrifice, since they have to face the virus literally every day and face death. They deserve the highest credit. However, to say that the organisation of protection, the import of vaccines, the import of protective equipment, the health system, the health system adapted to virus-adapting procedures and infrastructure have nothing to do with the government, it has nothing to do with the results, I think it has absolutely nothing to do with facts. I think it's part of the mood, and I'm sorry for the expression, the prank that separates the results from the virus from the government's activity. This is obviously completely unfounded. I will come to it one more time, but it is thought-provoking, and it may have been a kind of Freudian saying that Gergely Arató said in relation to the various left-wing proposals that the opposing parties had not been heard by the government, that they had not taken sufficiently into account the proposals of the opposing parties. This is actually a Freudian saying again, which is similar to a confession once again, that in the middle of the fight against the virus situation or at the start of it, so in the most difficult moments, and then in the very difficult period that follows, the Democratic Coalition, which we know is neither democratic nor coalition, but now let us not open a long debate about it, in this situation he defines himself as a counter-interesting party. Well, here we were talking about an extremely difficult, insidious enemy of the virus, against which the struggle was an extremely difficult job, and at present extremely difficult work. In this situation, he defined himself as a counterintuitive party, in Hungarian against the government fighting the virus, and therefore also considers itself to be a opposing party to the virus. No, I think it is 50 or 100 years to wait for historians to look back on this period, and our offspring to judge our activities on whether the left is indeed a opposing party to the fight against the virus or not, because there is all the evidence of this. I know we're in a different area now, but if we were talking about this in a court of law, there would be plenty of evidence to prove that the left wanted to prevent the fight against the virus, to prevent it, and to do so, he used all the tools, pardon, despicable and shady. If I had to highlight just one example, a great deal, a great deal, if we were talking about a trial in a court of evidence procedure on the list and assessment of evidence, then what should we consider the video produced by Lajos Korózs? After all, it was a non-emergency fake actress, to use this term, a statement about the people who died in the hospital and the hospital conditions, and she presented herself as a paramedic, and then this video with significant support, I mean, financial support in the media as a whole, on the YouTube surface and everywhere, which was also referred to by the parties on the left. What is this, fellow Members? How can this be classified? What is the human, moral depth to which a word can be found? Otherwise, we could find it, but it might not hold up the printing ink, and it is not advisable to say so in front of the House of Representatives and Members. But you have to say that this was no longer a mistake. This was not just an action against a government or a government, it was a sin, honourable Members. This has to be said, it was a sin that cost people their lives. Our fellow Member Attila Mesterházy used the expression that greater restraint or self-gratification is not the right thing to do. I, too, deeply agree that self-gratification is not necessary. When we work and do our duty, others will appreciate it, if nothing else, posterity. However, I have to say that when the government lists facts against the statements made by the left, which the left cannot then argue, it is not self-gratification; it is not self-gratification, but a confrontation of facts against your findings and accusations. When the term is used for the process called regulation governance, and we are also charged with the adoption by the government of laws likely to have been adopted by the National Assembly, the important thing in the special legal order is that the government should quickly, as soon as possible, as effectively as possible, establish and implement the laws that serve the defence and which serve the health, life, survival and economic recovery of people. This is what it is called, honourable Members, governance, when the executive power uses the powers it has given or has been given to it, as it served the interests of the country. It's called steering. I would like to deny the government even the possibility of governance, and in fact they also wanted to prevent the fight against the virus. With regard to the burden borne by municipalities, allow me to return a little bit to a narrower Patriam, as perhaps lifelike examples help to understand that the municipalities know what it means to bear burdens or to share in the fight against virus risk. If we look at VII. In the district, the situation of Mayor Péter Niedermüller, mayor of Christian hatred, has unfortunately become notorious for everyone, then he uses four main jobs with extensive Cabinets and experts instead of a full-time deputy mayor with a social mandate. These represent an additional cost of approximately HUF 250 million. Csaba Czeglédy's law firm, charged with $6 billion fraud, concluded a contract of some HUF 100 million. We still don't know what he's doing for this money. They recruited members of the external, paid committee, increased their numbers, created television, streaming television, in which they carry exclusively and unilaterally only anti-government propaganda and specifically anti-government propaganda. He's using the local newspaper for anti-government propaganda. When the government made it possible for catering establishments and entrepreneurs to be exempted from the terrace fees, it imposed this and interpreted the legislation differently, according to him it had to be paid. I do not believe that any measures have been taken in accordance with Annex VII. Head of district government when it came to helping local entrepreneurs, for example, in the event of a crisis, in the emergency, in the emergency, in the hours, days, weeks and months of fighting the virus, or in other cases, in connection with rents related to the premises, or what I mentioned earlier, in connection with terrace charges. Left-wing leadership in Erzsébetváros acts like a distinguished stranger waiting for someone else to solve the problems for them, and then someone else has enough resources, and they don't even think on their own that they should do something, so I have to say, nothing else is keeping their energy tied up but the ideological struggle and the ideological struggle. There is no evidence that they want to take part in the fight against the virus and therefore act, because there is a complete lack of the idea of local government and the realization of the extremely difficult situation that Hungary was in, unfortunately due to the virus. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of State, that we must govern this country in a situation where, rather than helping this fight, which serves all of us, people with left-wing thinking, so that it serves everyone in this country, that the survival of the economy serves everyone, that health, that there can be no more important goal than life, that it serves everyone, that is the fight against the virus, that it cannot be a field of political games. [[18.00]] Those who can do this can, unfortunately, do even more serious things, who are preparing for power. So what I have to say is that this irresponsibleness, risking people's lives, is a depth that I don't think you can go to anymore. Unfortunately, we always live here in the National Assembly, in the holy house of lawmaking, to be always tried by the left, who yell from the inside of the anaconda [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The satellite parties, what else are they gonna do? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/16367. I would like to comment on the number-one law, its municipal points. All the more so, because we are talking about salad law, we are talking about a lot of laws, and I think that the municipal chapter is perhaps the most serious. The 3176 municipalities, which are affected by the few points that are included in this, did not think too much about their fate. It has just been said that the government must be allowed and helped. I think that self-government must also be facilitated and encouraged in all circumstances, because here my fellow Member has just talked about the fact that the bodies of representatives cannot meet, they cannot govern their own corps, although there may be a wedding in the same district or even in the same building, different events, but those 21 Members cannot meet for the board meeting. It's completely ridiculous, and I think it's inexplicable that they can't make a collective decision. Another question is that, regardless of mayors, until this is called off, we do not know when, 15 September has been said here, perhaps before, even until the Members can continue to govern themselves locally, talk to the mayor online, send the submissions, then respond, read, then interpret... So it's not self-government, it's a substitute act, I think. They are still forced to do so on the basis of this proposal by the municipalities throughout the country. The situation is even worse for those who receive business tax, and thus are affected by the withdrawal of hip. This is very significant, this year there is a withdrawal of HUF 150-160 billion from the municipalities on this basis. So the municipalities, said here, do not contribute, well, they support the fight against the epidemic by HUF 160 billion. Excuse me, you should thank them too. But this is only one of the items, because they support the fight against the epidemic with HUF 34 billion, the withdrawal of the car tax. Let's not say that the municipalities don't do anything. That's 200 billion if I add it up. And then we didn't talk about tourism not being subject to taxes. Of course, there is virtually no tourism, but we don't even have to admit how much of the income from tourism is, even from now on, when there is some kind of traffic. Or, in the case of Budapest, with free parking, millions are lost. It's all support, support for the fight against the epidemic! Or that municipal-owned non-residential premises, which provided services such as tourism, catering, should be given free of charge, so they cannot charge rent for it. Or the terraces that have been opened are free. These are all $100 million in aid in the fight against the epidemic. Let's talk about this fair and square. You can't do it the way Congressman Bajkai magnified it before me. 3176 settlements are heartbroken by the epidemic, and mayors can't even consult their corps, they can't officially discuss it, they can't govern themselves. The government, on the other hand, can govern according to the proposal, but only the municipalities are an obstacle. Well, how is it gonna get in the way when the only thing they can do is piss themselves off? (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I think that the restrictive measures that have been introduced during a stronger period of the epidemic remain pointless in the case of municipalities and municipalities. If I understand correctly, of course, it is no coincidence that only the municipalities have such a tightening up and there is almost nothing else, since everything is slowly being dissolved. The fact that a protest cannot be held, but, I don't know, for 500 people, is not such a great restriction compared to what concerns the municipalities. And then we didn't talk about the support that's going to end up somewhere, I don't know, in the pockets of the population or in whose pockets. So you can't use this right to raise taxes, but inflation has increased significantly. But after inflation, they cannot raise either rent or housing wages or other wages that are related to it. Let's talk about this. It's a part of this. I think that the government, on the other hand, in the same municipal administrative area, can raise the price of tobacco significantly, increase the price of fuel even more, and increase food prices anyway. Only the municipality can't touch anything. It's hard to explain how and what happens, I think. I would like to point out one more thing, and I would like to comment only on the municipalities: if the municipalities, the more than 3 000 municipalities mentioned, are to be paid a solidarity tax and the solidarity tax is to be reduced next year, i.e. in the budget proposal, we must say that it is more serious for those who are obliged to pay solidarity taxes, because there are about 700 of them from 3176. The 700 municipalities are in a very serious situation, as the items here do not appear as at the World Hunting Exhibition, here 1 million and 2 million are serious money; not billions, not even the municipalities can speak in billions. I would also like to propose and ask that the government ease the tightening of the regulations that are imposed on the municipalities, the Hungarian settlements, in this proposal. Thank you.
u2021-06-01-138	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, will continue the work. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Even though the Secretary of State spoke earlier, it may be worth responding to what he said in a few thoughts. He said that civilized discourse will cease if the truth is distorted. I would add that even if we weren't very specific or generalising about everyone. So if you think that by distorting the truth, civilized discourse will cease, then I think that you have contributed a great deal to this in your contribution. Seriously, are you saying, speaking of civilized discourse, that opposition representatives are rooting for the virus and anti-vaccination? So, seriously, you're saying just let me speak for myself, that I'm anti-vaccination, and I'm rooting for the virus, so I'm rooting for as many people as possible in Hungary to get sick and die? Are you seriously telling me that I'm rooting for this as a left-wing congressman? ! And you're gonna tell me about the need for civilized discourse? ! [[18.10]] I can tell you that you are not ashamed to accuse me of wanting people to die in Hungarian people and in Hungarian families, because I have political benefits? ! Is this really where we're going? ! This isn't a joke, please, this isn't about the usual political rumour that the opposition is lying, the government is lying! Well, what are you accusing me of? ! How dare you? ! Where can you quote one sentence from me that would be anti-vaccination, which in addition to cheering for the virus to win over what I don't know, the Hungarian people? ! Is that really what they're saying? ! Is this the campaign? ! And I get that it's funny to say that this looks like a campaign theme at 6:00 p.m., and I don't take it as a campaign theme. The life and health of Hungarian people and the health of Hungarian families are not a campaign issue. I object to you accusing me of that. Charge me with a lot of other things. The other: I was clear, I thought at the beginning, and I was seated here, so I can only look at it from the back row, but believe me, sometimes you can see it better from the back row than from the front row, where you are sitting, I made it clear, the first time you were talking about introducing an extraordinary legal order, I personally thought that you really wanted to introduce it with the intention that, as a justification, you said, quick decisions were really necessary. Mr Secretary, we did not support you because you said that we should not distort the facts here, your first such initiative, because the MSZP, the president of the MSZP, asked for a deadline. Imagine, we made a suggestion. Our proposal was to have a 90-day deadline. If this had been included, we would have made it very clear that we would have supported it. You didn't consciously put this in there. Then it turned out that this law did not have to be in force for 90 days, so in Hungarian, nothing would have happened if they had put the 90 days in. Then came their next request to support a similar law again, what a surprise, included the 90-day deadline. What happened? The MSZP fraction supported that legislative proposal at that time. So the MSZP fraction has acted in a very clear and consistent manner. And the third reason we didn't support it is because we judged it whether you like it or not, that we think you have abused this license. Now, I'm gonna finish this right here, because there's no point in sticking to it anymore. It was as simple as our decision-making mechanism or our consideration behind a particular question. Then he spoke about what was quite funny is that your prime minister here in Parliament stood up one meter from you and said that the only measuring instrument in the fight against the virus epidemic is how many people die in Hungary. We did not bring this subject here to Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself linked this success to this, or to the effectiveness of government measures against the virus situation. Then why are you surprised that this is what the opposition refers to, which your prime minister brought into the public address and political debate? It is possible to argue that you think this is inappropriate, so I would not say that, but that it is acceptable, or that it is an appropriate number in European comparison, or that it will bring a better result, but this debate was not initiated by the opposition, but by the Prime Minister. I would add that the death of 30,000 people is considered to be well standing, so I said to you that I would expect some modesty when talking about this issue, because if a medium city of people dies in Hungary, there is a place for modesty in my opinion, even if it is possible that in other countries, unfortunately, even more people have died. The second was that we did well, and then later in his own sentences, he said why we accused the defense workers of not working well, because they were excellent in carrying out the task, and in fact we should not accuse them of not doing their job well. Make up your mind, Secretary of State, you have worked well, or those who have fought in health care and other areas directly on the front line. Because when it comes to the second, there hasn't been a representative in this House who hasn't acknowledged the performance and work of these people. Your work, the work of your Prime Minister, is, yes, constantly being criticised, but it may not be surprising to you that we approach certain social, economic or even health issues in a different way. That's probably why we're not in the same party, which is probably why we don't agree on a lot of other issues. This is not better or worse, it is always the voter's choice in the election which is more sympathetic to him. For the time being, you are better off at this, but we still have the right to debate your truth, we have the right to dispute your facts, because, you know, the problem with the facts is that there are many of them, and there can be examples of everything, and then there is a counterexample, as Peter Popper once said. So in Hungarian, the facts are such things that someone is looking at the question from here, there are people looking at the question from there, but there must be a lot of truth in your sentences, and there must also be reason for it, just as you can argue for our truth. Then, for example, I'll give you another example. He said we didn't have any suggestions. Please, when we were talking about shutting down schools in the middle of this epidemic, the Prime Minister went to Kossuth Radio this morning, and he said that there was no way that the schools would be closed, and then, I think, he changed his opinion for the afternoon, but maybe the next day, and he announced that the schools should be closed. So in Hungarian, to say that the opposition has never had a single suggestion that would have helped government operation or government discernment in relation to the virus situation, this can only be justified by this one example, that it is factually not so and that many other examples of this type could be taken. And then he said our problem was that the ventilator didn't have it, and then he said it was too much. Mr. Secretary, as weird as it sounds, it makes perfect sense. In the beginning, there was little, and then they actually got a lot of it, and what was worse, they did it very expensively. This is the most expensive way to buy such equipment anywhere in Europe. The opposition clearly criticized the fact that there was a ventilator that you bought at 50 times the price, and that you intervened in companies that at least suspected it was stolen again. The opposition does have a right and duty to draw attention to transparency in such a case, or, where appropriate, to draw attention to the fact that you have not become tax collectors of poverty, but have become tax collectors of the crisis and of the virus, because they wanted to look for even these devices, as it is clear now in the Chinese vaccine that they wanted to look for it, and that is a problem. And if you would like, I could now quote a number of sentences from Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó, Imre Pesti, Gabriella Selmeczi about government measures related to the H1N1 virus from your bench. The H1N1 virus, which was also a flu virus; there, please, your politicians specifically said Navracsich, Szijjárto, did not inoculate themselves. Interestingly, at that time, the left-wing government, you're against vaccination, and you want as many people as possible to be infected with this virus, and that would put your health at risk. Then the other thing I would like to say is that Congressman Bajkai said that the satellite parties were swallowed by the anaconda. Really, I'm sorry, all I could do was smile at which one, the MDF, the Little Farmers' Party and the MDNP, was that what the fidesz anaconda swallowed or which one were you talking about? So when you strangle parties, swallow them, grind them down, it's a political tactical move that shows insight. [[18.20]] If that's not what's happening on the other side, but the parties are just cooperating with each other, then immediately someone has conquered the other, and someone's boss is already in charge. I understand that this is a political communication tool, only because of the civilised discourse and not distorting the facts, I say to you that perhaps in this regard it would also be appropriate to be a little bit more sensible and temperate. Just as it should be, when they say that left-wing media and left-wing media have spent, I don't know how much money on his video. How much do you spend on fidesz media lying about us on a daily basis? Not just now, every parliamentary campaign and every municipal campaign. And then what do they say? Never mind, we'll lose the lawsuit in court at most, we'll pay the fine we had to pay for defaming someone. Well, we can mention lawsuits with a number of forty-fifties, you know better than I did when you lost him. You're in the KESMA Foundation, you must be following this question, you see it, and you know how many times these organs are losing to opposition representatives because they lied about it. Doesn't that bother you? Poor Lajos Korózs' video was a world-shaking lie, but what you say about us on a daily basis is tolerated, that's okay, because it's in your best interest. So, so much for the double standard you like to refer to when you understand yourself in this story. I would also like to add that, indeed, we believe that there have been errors in this crisis management. Here, Mr Secretary of State said that this is a competition. Look. In a way, you're right. If you're looking at economic recovery, it's definitely a competition. And international competition. If you look at it a bit from the other side, if you look at the medical emergency of this story, then it's not so obvious that it's a competition, because then who we're competing with. Then it's more of a health policy issue, where you can't understand the word "contest" because we don't determine which mutant of the virus is how it's spread, how it's caught. So I can't understand it there, but it may be the weakness of my imagination, but when it comes to a medical emergency, I can't interpret the competition in that sense. In fact, if we link competition so that we have to open it as quickly as possible so that a fresh start is as strong as possible in the economy, and this involves risks to people's health, I will not support this idea at all, even if this would be good for the economy. In conclusion, I would add that I fully acknowledge that you do not, because you always say that we are untalented and stupid for everything, but I know exactly that solving economic crisis management and health crisis management at the same time would have been an extremely difficult task, not only for you, but also for any other government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I do not want to suggest and thank you for your patience, Mr President, that this is a simple task. Nevertheless, believe me, there were some issues that the opposition may have seen better in a particular situation than you do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-01-140	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, the thing is, I have to go to Secretary of State Orbán, you know, I see what you can't see, that no one else has come forward, but you do, on behalf of the government. But as an author, he can also conclude. I would like to ask whether you wish to speak in two qualities, or you can sum up your thoughts in a speech. In this hope, however, I can give the floor only if I first ask, according to the house rules, that someone else wants to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I now give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and I congratulate you on leading a bravado meeting, and I promise you that I have signed up for a two-minute comment, and I will keep this tight timeframe, and I would not say a final word, because I think that very much has been said in the debate. Thank you on behalf of the Government for your supporting contributions, and thank you for the comments that, although critical, contained traces of constructivity, there was one. If we've started using this 99-1 percent slogan, they were closer to 1 percent than 99 percent with these types of comments, but that's something. I asked for the floor because I wanted to respond to the fact that we are here at the end of the third wave, in the hallway of the emergency exit, when something could be done to stop party political battles from finally defining the fight against the epidemic, but to close these debates, and it could also be a symbolic step that the bill on the exit of the emergency, let us say, enjoys Parliament's consensus. I am sad to see that there is no possibility of creating this consensus, and, of course, there are always such small excuses, there are always such support for a paragraph as to why a proposal cannot be supported, why I say among quotes a new form of expression of fidesz arbitrariness that must be opposed. This was an excellent example of Attila Mesterházy's speech, who said, "Yeah, well, if it had been the 90 days, then the location of the maiden would have been completely different from the beginning. I wouldn't have. I was in the negotiations, and you demanded a thousand other things. The things that were most demanded, the government did. They were not accepted in public and were clearly against the proposal on which you later stated that it was necessary, proportionate and appropriate to establish a legal background for the control of the virus. There's nothing I can do about that. One more thing. I'm sorry to have to end this with this kind of internal political comment, but I've had it addressed to you personally. I think the cause and effect of why we use the term "anti-vaccine" on the left at the moment is quite clear. There's one thing we can agree on. In this, I think I look at Madam Secretary of State, there is also a scientific consensus: vaccination on our side is the key weapon of control against the virus; one. Secondly, it is in Hungary's interest to ensure that effective and safe vaccines are available as soon as possible. Three: and as many of these vaccines as possible should be given to as many Hungarian citizens as possible. So far, I believe that standing on the ground of facts is not debatable. Compared to this, we still see and have pointed out, Mr Bajkai, that with various sundam-bundam solutions, this tone is still coming back, that we see from your side that, on the one hand, there is an open uncertainty with Eastern vaccines, and, on the other hand, we are now also constantly hearing the discrediting propaganda about health protection, the preparedness of organisations involved in health care, and that Parliament still has the proposal in favour of banning Eastern vaccines. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Congressman Attila Mesterházy, If you really believe that it is not anti-vaccination, you can say that, you have to stand up and say that we are sorry, we have made a mistake, and, for example, the Democratic Coalition and I are not starting an alliance in the elections, because the Democratic Coalition has launched a petition against Eastern Vaccines. I beg you, there was also a need for Western vaccines, but if we hadn't used the Eastern vaccines, there would have been a lot more people in Hungary now, and there would be a lot more people in the hospital, and we would be able to start restarting Hungary much later. Then you have to stand up and say that I am sorry, I am left-wing, I do not agree with the right-wing government because it is your right of heart, so we will never probably agree on a lot of issues, but there is nothing wrong with that.This is what the house of the country is for to discuss, but I do not agree with you, but I do not want to participate in this alliance. [[18.30]] Compared to this, in this lane [[He's showing it with his hands.]] I don't see a single character who would have said that maybe this was going beyond the limits, and the fight against the virus and the fact that as many people as possible get vaccinated, and as soon as possible, more important, both domestic political disagreements. Compared to this, I do not understand how sober, rational, constructive this position can be taken, but I do accept it and trust that, with the support of the pro-government side, we will still have the majority needed to adopt it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain asset management issues and certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/16369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor once again to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, author. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Congressman Lords! There's a salad law ahead of us. The salad law is the Hungarian legal system and I do not like it, but sometimes it is a necessary tool. Now it is specifically justified that such a law should be placed between the walls of this House, that at least this stage of the control of the epidemic, which we now see and know, will be closed. On the basis of the emergency, we have just discussed a proposal for legislation under the special legal order mandate, but we have talked about it here in the House's walls, that since March 2020, Parliament has been able to meet continuously, and the legislative work not directly related to the control of the coronal virus has not stopped for a single moment in the House. This, of course, is not directly related to the control of the coronal virus, the indirect links are seen in many places in legislation over the past year and a half, so it has been quite intense in this period of coronal virus, it has covered a number of areas, and now the situation is that when we introduce the rules of regulation, we need to establish the full unity and coherence of the legal system and restore the normal order of legislation. This requires this salad law, and this justifies the fact that the Prime Minister's Office, who carries out political coordination within the government, is the author of this bill. Thank you very much, Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary for Health, for having a serious health regulatory package in this salad law, so that if there is a question about this, we can make it available. If I may, I would like to say a few things specifically about the elements that the bill intends to address. The focus of the past year and a half was, among other things, health care, not surprisingly. The proposal concerns the regulation of a number of health legislations. The government's priority is to monitor, monitor and update the legal framework for the functioning of health care. We have positive experience from both the public and the professional side of the legislation that we have introduced during the epidemic period in order to protect the most vulnerable patients. On this basis, the policy objective is to integrate, for example, the possibility of substitution based on farm numbers among the provisions of the normal legal order, while at the same time allowing pharmacists to process the data of the person who issued the medicinal product in order to monitor the route of the medicinal product. In the same way, our aim is to ensure that medical aids can be ordered on this recipe, making the benefits of electronic prescription and replacement available to people as widely as possible. As in many areas of public administration, there is a need to respond to the expectations of electronicisation of data traffic in health care. By taking advantage of the functions of the Electronic Health Service Space, patients will no longer have to go to a paper search because the related data can be obtained directly through the ESZT. The bill also establishes the necessary regulatory framework for data exchange processes supporting cross-border patient care. It is very important that it is also linked to health and family policy that our important government objective is to encourage childbearing. By improving access to so-called assisted reproductive treatments, including artificial insemination procedures, we also want to help more children born in Hungary than currently. In the future, in order to strengthen public engagement, special procedures for human reproduction will only be allowed to be provided by a healthcare provider maintained by the State. It is also possible to highlight from the proposals for amendments on health issues, where there are several proposed measures, in the context of strengthening the control of expenditure on medicines. But, as I mentioned at the outset, this bill contains not only health-related changes, but also other areas. The bill also complies with the Constitutional Court's decision on the Code of Labour. The Constitutional Court rejected the Constitutional Court's pleadings submitted by left-wing representatives, but established the existence of a constitutional requirement and an unconstitutionality in default. This is what the amendment wants to deal with. Obviously, we can only handle the defaulting part, the constitutional requirement is a legal task. To that end, the amendment states that the termination of the collective agreement does not affect employment under the agreed working time limit for a maximum of three months after the termination of the collective agreement. Therefore, after the termination of the collective agreement, the working time limit should be closed three months later and the parties should be accounted for; there are transitional rules in the proposal. The bill also aims to focus on increasing the opportunities for workers. It also creates the legal background of the so-called special employee part-owner scheme, which provides a new, special way of acquiring ownership so as to allow employees or officials of public limited liability companies to acquire a share of the assets of the company more preferentially compared to the rules in force. The type of programme aims to respond widely to the needs of workers by allowing workers to set up a trust fund in order to transfer the operational decision burden associated with the member holding of the operating organisation. The bill also contains legal provisions for the management of assets. In this context, we would also like to do something to strengthen civil society organisations and organisations that do their job for a public purpose. For the properties covered by the law, free ownership is intended to serve the public service mission of foundations and municipalities. Organisations concerned: Kárpát Basin School of Arts Foundation, Zalaegerszeg County City Municipality and Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund serving the Pannonia University indirectly as well as the Syrian Orthodox Religious Association. In addition, the proposal would provide for the transfer of assets to different properties. Here are the beneficiaries: Local Government of Rácalmás City, OMSZI Institution Provider Public Use Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. In addition, universities are being renewed and higher education models are being changed. There are unprecedented resources available to universities operating in the form of a so-called model changer, i.e. a public-interest trust fund. [[18.40]] These foundations, public-interest trust foundations, now have a separate law, which was adopted by the Parliament. Among other things, this regulation aims to ensure coherence between this new law that has been born and the law on higher education. We would also like to tie up a number of things from the regulatory needs of areas with less emphasis in recent months. This includes a number of technical amendments to the Sports Act, which are justified by practice: expanding the content of the competition licence and clarifying the provisions on international sports associations, for example. We think it is particularly important for the Olympics to amend the provisions of the Sports Act on anti-doping activities, which is necessary to ensure that Hungarian anti-doping legislation retains the status of compliance with the requirements of the International Anti-Doping Agency in the long term. The proposals on public procurement concern primarily data management rules for the electronic public procurement system and facilitate more effective cooperation between the GVH and the Prime Minister's Office's public procurement area. The bill also contains provisions in the field of construction, the most exciting of which is perhaps the one by which it will be possible to restore the destroyed historical building elements in connection with the installation of rooftops. In the same way, the amendment of the World Heritage Act, which provides for the granting of the right of pre-emption to the Hungarian State in certain locations and under other conditions, thus contributing to the renewal of these buildings in a manner appropriate to the public interest, in a high architectural quality, credible and appropriate to the world heritage site. Thanks to the protection against a successful epidemic, we can slowly but surely return to our normal life before the outbreak. However, this resounding order places serious regulatory tasks on us, the government, and I would like to ask the Parliament for its assistance. I know very well that I referred to this in the introductory section that the salad laws are the most difficult legislative products in codification terms, no one likes them, but sometimes they are necessary in a modern parliamentary democracy, so I would like to ask for your support in the context of the regulations on health, culture, construction, tax law, labour law, transport, public procurement and other areas that have arisen in this regard. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-01-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, István Bajkai, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/16369 on the table of this House, amending certain property management issues and certain laws in order to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. It is necessary, by means of a legislative proposal, to establish some new legislation corresponding to the regulatory tasks that have been crystallised during the epidemic. Following the relief of the epidemic, Parliament and the Government must establish rules for the further implementation of the legal institutions introduced in the last year and a half. The rules introduced in the event of an emergency are regulated at legal level, irrespective of the date of the end of the emergency, in order to ensure that the institutions of law can be applied without disruption in the normal functioning of the legal order. The corona virus epidemic has posed serious challenges both in health and economic terms throughout the world, including our country, Hungary. Urgent emergency measures have been introduced by the Government with extraordinary decrees of law. The Parliament continued to meet during the emergency, even though the left tried to adjust it differently with false news. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of recent years, the Crown Virus pandemic hit a resilient, balanced economy last March, so Hungary faced the challenges with strong fundamentals and sound public finances. Thanks to the government's rapid and effective measures, it is now possible to say that epidemiological data are constantly improving, but we cannot lean back yet, there are still 3 million Hungarians over the age of 18 who have not been vaccinated, so they are not protected from the coronal virus. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also addresses some of the problems of coherence that have arisen in recent years in the areas of cultural, construction, tax, labour law, transport, public procurement and regulation of self-employed persons and dangerous substances. The bill contains a number of amendments to the standard text on health issues, which include adjustments of a legal order that ensure compliance with EU law and assist in the application of the law, for deregulation purposes, and for codification and technical purposes. The proposal also makes amendments to higher education and its institutions. Here it is important to mention that universities, as localists of the nation, can make a key contribution to achieving Hungary's 2030 strategic goals and strengthening its competitiveness, along the lines of the higher education strategy adopted by the government. As a result, higher education, which is more open to the needs of the economy and which cooperates more closely and effectively with companies, has a quality and performance principle. The main pillars of this are the following. From a national strategy point of view, Hungary, one of the five most livable places in Europe, needs competitive, performance-oriented higher education at global level. From a national sovereignty point of view, strengthening higher education is the key to preserving Hungarian knowledge, innovation, talent, creative strength and achieving regional knowledge. From an economic development point of view, renewable higher education is a prerequisite for the industrial and economic development objectives of the Iriny Plan, the development base of the key technologies. From a social policy point of view, a new value-oriented environment will be created through model change and strengthening processes in higher education. In addition to legislative amendments ensuring legal alignment and coherence, the essential elements of the bill are to supplement and clarify previous asset allocation provisions relating to model changes. In the light of the consultations with the relevant actors in higher education, additional asset allocation is necessary for the provision of public tasks for public-service trust foundations and higher education institutions to be maintained. These additional grants serve the efficient provision of public tasks by universities, whether it be a foundation or a university. Legal provision of municipal real estate assets is justified for the Municipality of Zalaegerszeg County in order to carry out its development tasks, which also indirectly serves the functioning of the University of Pannonia. According to the bill, the Rába Automotive Holding Public Company is 20 percent and Győr-Pér Repülőtér Kft. should help to fulfil the public tasks of Széchenyi István University. 15.25 percent of its shares are in foundation property and two properties related to Innovation Park are in university ownership. In the performance of the public tasks of the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, it is necessary to supplement the asset allocation by transferring the assets of the Agricultural Research Institutes and the Karcag Research Institute of the University of Debrecen, in addition to the previously owned real estate application. Dear Parliament, During the emergency, regulation at government regulation level fixed two reliefs for small and medium-sized enterprises with net turnover below HUF 4 billion and balance sheet total. [[18.50]] According to the legislation, in the tax year ending in 2021, the rate applicable to them may not be more than 1 per cent, and in 2021 only 50 per cent of the tax advance to be paid is to be paid by that taxpayer. This bill raises this emergency regulation to the legislative level in order to make it applicable after an emergency. In addition, the proposal will bring the emergency government regulation banning the increase of local tax burdens to a legal level. As regards the compatibility of the local industrialisation tax relief with EU law, it can be said that local industrialisation tax relief granted in the event of an emergency amounts to a maximum rate of 1 per cent and a 50 per cent tax advance reduction, respectively, to so-called transitional aid under EU law. The conditions for the use of this assistance have been ensured by the Emergency Government Regulation, which is brought to a legal level by the proposal. CXXII of 2019 on the eligibility of social security benefits and the coverage of those benefits. I would also like to say a few words about the amendment of the law. The proposal introduces, as a final rule, the rule already applied in the emergency situation in the Act on the right holders of social security and the coverage of these benefits, under which a person who does not have a place of residence in Hungary is entitled to health care, but actually lives in Hungary on the basis of the Ministry of Interior's register. Of course, the payment of a health service contribution is payable unless the individual is entitled to health care under the right of the subject, such as pensioners, childcare recipients or university students. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech as Chief Speaker, I highlighted some of the important elements of the bill which need to be adopted to regulate the rules introduced in the event of an emergency, regardless of the date of the end of the emergency, at a legal level, in order to ensure that the institutions of law can be applied without disruption in the normal functioning of the legal system. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-01-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gergely Kálló, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would not like to respond to matters concerning my district in relation to this proposal. Indeed, the proposal provides many opportunities, including for the reduction and circumvention of national assets, even through the aforementioned foundations. I would like to respond to Mr State Secretary, but the Constitutional Court has quite rightly rejected several passes on the slave law. We think the two most important things that need to be changed are that if I work overtime now, a year is enough to pay this overtime. We wanted to change that, and we also wanted to change that if the employee refused to work overtime, he could not be fired. This was also put before the Committee on Enterprise Development, where you voted against, saying that you would be included in this law, and that will settle these two questions with satisfaction. We do not see these two questions well resolved. But perhaps we should go to the part that made me speak today and travel imaginary to Dunaújváros and its surroundings. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The devil is in the details, they used to say. This is a 127 - page document with a quarter - page section on page 3, which transfers land to Rácalmás. We do not always surprise or snort at such things, but the situation, the political situation, is such that we have to stop in this short part and find the reasons why this has come in. Well, then, if we've already gone imaginary to Dunaújváros and its surroundings, let's also travel in time in an imaginary way! I'll help you. Not long ago, a new constituency president was appointed to lead the 4th constituency of Fejér in the person of Dr. Krisztián Molnár. Dr. Krisztián Molnár is also the Fidesz president of the Fejér County General Assembly. It's not that rough. And now the tough stuff begins. Krisztián Molnár got involved with the inhabitants and settlements of the district with two feet after his appointment. The mayor of the largest city in the district was not informed of the plan he had secretly prepared in Székesfehérvár to create a special economic zone in our district. And how do you intend to create this special economic zone? They take the largest business tax payers in the region, they take away the business tax, and in Székesfehérvár they decide who gets it back. Minister Gulyás used to say that, but why do we cry in Dunaújváros, because Dunaújváros is not affected by the law as a county town. Well, here's what we're talking about, Rácalmás. We'll jump to Ivanča, I promise you, be patient. That's where Rácalmás comes in. A rubber manufacturer Hankook is located between Rácalmás and Rácalmás and Dunaújváros. I'm holding a framework agreement signed by Mayor Schrick, Mayor of Rácalmás... and that's the pass that Dunaújváros and Rácalmás have to split the business tax. Why? Dunaújváros is also available. But let me highlight a sentence from this, because in Krisztián Molnár, after their diabolical plan came out, the news was forced to explain itself on TV. Krisztián Molnár said that in Dunaújváros they do not see the counter-services that we provide in exchange for the split trade tax. Well, let me quote you from this contract. In view of the fact that the area concerned is located within the administrative boundaries of Rácalmás, but without the help and involvement of Dunaújváros, the investments resulting in the revenue could not or could not have been made; it is a live contract. According to this draft, they want to take away this trade tax, which is why this passage is included in this salad law. You said it very well before, Mr. Secretary, nobody likes salad law, especially when you're trying to rob people. But let us move on, because this economic zone includes another city and this is Ivancha. Let me quote your prime minister. In 2016 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that in Dunaújváros a logistics and industrial park of 500 hectares should be created within the framework of the.Modern Cities programme in Dunaújváros. Well, unfortunately, this industrial park did not become 500 hectares, unfortunately it was not in Dunaújváros, but in Iváncsa, and the operator became a private company. Well, let's take the liberty of jumping to this public company's website, where we see the industrial park in Ivanča called Inpark Dunaújváros. The establishment of this industrial park was financed by the money of the Dunaújváros, so half of it is entitled to Dunaújváros, given that it was built with our money. Lucky for you, I have another contract signed by Gábor Cserna, former mayor of Fidesz and signed by the mayor of Ivancsa, Tibor Molnár. I would also like to quote a passage from this:. Given that the area concerned is located within the administrative boundaries of Iváncsa, but without the help and involvement of Dunaújváros, the investments that would result in revenue could not be made. Oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, [[19.00]] Another live contract you're planning to break. So they don't stand up for the reasons you keep telling them. What are these reasons? The special economic zone must be established because it will be geographically fairer. I would add that they are planning to grant four municipalities a business tax. Now, let's look at these four municipalities geographically. Iváncsa has one single municipality from the four municipalities and one from the three municipalities, Adony. The other two are further away from Iváncsa, so in the case of Key and Rácalmás, the geographical reason has simply failed. But they argue that financially this will be a much fairer, much more honest distribution system. Let me deny that, my dear gentlemen. According to the current hand, three municipalities benefit from the paid business tax: Iváncsa, Rácalmás and Dunaújváros. There are 51,000 people living in these three settlements, so 51,000 people are beneficiaries of paid trade taxes. Now hold on tight. Your calculation, the fairer calculation follows: Adony, Rácalmás, Iváncsa and Key are now, as planned, the beneficiaries. Do you know how many people live here? 14,500. So the 51,000 and the 14,000 aren't in the game, are they? So you want to give 14,000 people what they're taking from us while the current system serves 51,000 people. So not only did their geographical reasons fail, but also their reasons for justice failed. One more thing, however, from the already mentioned TV show, held by Krisztián Molnár, I cannot really call it anything else, he also said that Dunaújváros is not only not contributing to these investments, but also said that Dunaújváros does not need the Rácalmás business tax, I am trying to quote exactly:, Dunaújváros is 28 kilometers away from Iváncsa, but there is no direct connection to the Rácalmás axis. So the President of the Fejér County General Assembly does not know that there is a direct connection, an organic connection between Rácalmás and Dunaújváros. I often tell you that business tax is not for the good of the two eyes of a local government. It's not that. It comes because it provides services, facilitates investment, promotes production with water, sewerage, workers, provides accommodation for the workers, and I could tell you more. So none of your arguments are gonna hold up. Neither geographic nor justice, there's only one thing we can think of here. You want to take a petty political revenge in Dunaújváros and in the area and in the district because the residents did not support you from election to election. If you look at Dr. Krisztián Molnár's video, he will also acknowledge the political reasons. It's a shame to deny it. The only problem is, they're not messing with the congressmen, they're messing with the mayors, they're messing with the residents. They're taking money from the residents there. I would add that, speaking of justice, Dunaújváros paid HUF 1800 million this year as a solidarity contribution. This is one of the biggest cities with county rights. Support the remaining settlements from this. And I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing, and that's next. Not only do we and the people who live there have had enough that your politics are about nothing more than to incite one another against another and to play off the local governments and the people who live there. They're doing it now. You should have thought about it, and you shouldn't have switched to one more stage. So I am asking you; by the way, quite rightly, a lot of Prime Minister candidates and party presidents, expressing their solidarity, have come down to Dunaújváros, perhaps also to stand by us, or perhaps also to learn from the Dunaújváros. Because we will teach everyone how to fight such barbaric acts, and if the example of our district is sticky in the country, we will wipe out such gross acts and laws after 2022 with a snap. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-06-01-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the lead speaker of KDNP, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus epidemic has posed serious challenges both in health and in the economy. Thanks to the discipline of the Hungarian people, the epidemic that lasted a year and a half has been successfully crushed. Urgent emergency measures have been introduced by the Government with an extraordinary legal order, but Parliament has also met continuously during the emergency, and therefore other rules have been adopted by the legislator in the traditional procedural order. After the outbreak has subsided, Parliament and the Government must establish rules for the further implementation of the legal institutions introduced in the last year and a half. In this context, the rules introduced in certain times of emergency are regulated at legal level, irrespective of the date of the end of the emergency, in order to ensure that legal institutions can be applied without disruption or disruption in the normal functioning of the legal system. It has also been necessary to establish new legislation for regulatory tasks that have been crystallised during the epidemic. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us now take a comprehensive look at the relevant provisions of the bill. On the one hand, the bill contains asset allocation and asset designation; on the other hand, the launch of a special employee part-ownership programme; on the third hand, it extends the scope of definitions taken over from EU regulations for greater chemical safety; on the fourth hand it amends and supplements the sport law; on the other hand it amends health laws; on the sixth, it amends the law on the formation and protection of the built environment; on the other hand, it amends the labour code; on the eighth part it amends the provisions on public procurement law; on the other hand, it amends the law on temporary rules and epidemiological preparedness relating to the cessation of an emergency; and on the third part, the proposed law amends the 10th part of the 2021 Act on public interest trust foundations for public service purposes. amends the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us now look at in detail what the bill will amend under each chapter. Chapter I: benefits of property. 1. The bill provides the Foundation for the National School of Arts in the Carpathian Basin with eleven properties to carry out educational and higher education tasks more effectively. 2. The bill for the Municipality of Zalaegerszeg County is the state-owned Zalaegerszeg interior 4815/1 hrsz. Sub-sports facilities under this heading shall be transferred to its property by the termination of the existing trust rights. 3. The bill for the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund Budapest VI. district interior 20038/3/A/5 hrs. the real estate under the heading is transferred to the property of MTVA for the proper performance of its statutory tasks. 4. For the Syrian Orthodox Religious Association, the proposal allows the state-owned domestic 15138 hrs to carry out religious, health and social tasks. real estate below. [[19.10]] 5. In connection with the public tasks of the Széchenyi István University Foundation, you will receive two additional properties in Győr as a complement to the asset relief. 6. The property allocation of the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences Foundation is also added. 7. The Spider Egon Academy of Arts provides for the dedication of the property to the Foundation for Hungarian Culture for the Advanced Level of Light Music Training Centre. 8. In connection with the performance of the public tasks of the Budapest University of Economics, the Foundation for Economic University of Budapest's property allocation will be supplemented by the fact that the BGE Central Library and Student Centre will be owned by a university after the completion of the development. 9. The Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza has been added to its financial contribution so far. 10. The University of Pécs is also complemented by the University's asset allocation in connection with the public tasks of the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the University of Pécs University. Two properties on the outside of Rácalmás in connection with the appointments of the trustees will be managed by the local government of Rácalmás on the basis of the bill. OMSZI Institutional Supporting Public Benefit Nonprofit Ltd. is designated by the bill as the trustee of eight buildings in Budapest and one property in Sopron for social, public and educational purposes. The third is that by amending the Sports Act, the proposal includes a free trust assignment for Illovszky Rudolf Stadium and the related football infrastructure, the designated trustee is Vasas Sport Club and Vasas Football Club Kft. Will do. Finally, the proposal also provides for the establishment of the HAYDNEUM Hungarian Old Music Center Foundation, which aims to maintain Hungarian early music life, old music treasure, develop domestic and international cultural relations and raise them to a high level. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Chapter 1 contains the special employee part-owner scheme. The proposal provides for a financial institution, insurance undertaking, reinsurance undertaking and investment firm, as well as for a legal person by which the marketing of securities issued by a legal entity with a majority influence is authorised to launch a special employee part-owner scheme authorised on a regulated market in the Member State of the European Union. This employee part-owner scheme provides a special acquisition opportunity to acquire the assets of the public limited liability company or limited liability company, employees or supervisory board members or board members of the company. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. Chapter 1 is about chemical safety. In order to ensure consistency with Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals and with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures, the proposal extends the scope of definitions adopted from EU regulations. Annex IV is amended as follows: Chapter 3, amendment of the Law on Sport. The proposal includes supplementing the content of the competition licence with the name of the competitor's mother in order to complete the validation of the competitor's data and to clearly identify the competitor. As a result of the amendment, Stv. the mandatory scope of the national anti-doping organisation's rules laid down in the Government Decree on rules for anti-doping activities is added. The proposal sets out that the doping appeal committee should operate within the framework of the Sport Permanent Arbitration Court. Chapter V, amendment of health legislation, including: 1. Treatment of health data. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and related Personal Data is to comply with the GDPR Regulation. However, during the epidemic period, as regards the use of a legal possibility that the publisher of the medicinal product may perform the release of the medicinal product without a prescription certificate for the person who provides the patient's farm number and confirms his own natural identity as defined by law; we have positive experience on both the residential and professional side of the medicinal product in this regard. On this basis, the policy objective is to maintain this option further, to integrate the provision into the provisions of the normal legal order. The aim is also to meet the need to make medical aids available on the e-recept, allowing the benefits of electronic prescription and replacement to be exploited. The functioning of the ESTE allows the patient not to have to go to the paper search, as it can be obtained directly by the ESTE for both the patient and the provider of additional healthcare services. The regulatory framework for data exchange processes supporting cross-border patient care will also be established by the proposal. The regulation allows Hungarian citizens to replace their e-recepts abroad, their e-profiles can be viewed in other EU countries, and vice versa: domestic pharmacies will be able to consult the recipe of foreign citizens in Hungary and issue the medicine. 2. New regulation on medical devices. In addition to the general rule on compensation for medical research in humans, it is necessary to establish a specific safety regime for the clinical examination of medical devices, and the 2005 XCV for clinical trials on medicinal products. the model of legislation laid down in law. 3. Special procedures for human reproduction. The amendment of the Health Act and the Law on the provision of compulsory health insurance also deals with special reproductive procedures. In Hungary, demographic challenges require public involvement, and therefore, in the future, only a clinical centre will be entitled to provide special procedures for human reproduction under the State-owned health service provider and the Public Interest Trust Foundations Act, which form part of the single public health management. The health insurance undertaking may contract only with these bodies for the provision of the service and terminate the contract with the service provider which does not comply with these conditions after the settlement. 4. Control of clinical trials of medicinal products. The amendment to the Act amending the laws governing the market for medicinal products and other medicinal products for human use includes amendments for harmonisation purposes in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5. Clarification of the rules of the grant volume contract, the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the law on general rules for the distribution of medicinal products. 6. A new chapter should be added to the health care system development law, due to the ongoing transformation of healthcare higher education institutions. Annex VI is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. Chapter 1 amends the proposals on construction by amending the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment. In connection with the installation of roof spaces, it will be possible to restore destroyed historical building elements. On the basis of the amendment of the Real Estate Register Act, the real estate registration authority may conduct administrative procedures at the request of MNV Zrt. to register the property ownership of the Hungarian State. CHAPTER VII Chapter 3, Amendments to the Code of Labour, as decided by the Constitutional Court, concerning collective agreements. CHAPTER VIII Chapter I, Amendments to Public Procurement Law: Clarifies Kbt in several places. It also contains its provisions and the harmonisation of laws necessary for the purpose of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. [[19.20]] Annex IX is amended as follows: Chapter 1 of the Act on transitional rules and emergency preparedness relating to the cessation of an emergency. It states that it may fulfil the training and examination obligation of its official personnel by 31 December 2021 instead of 30 June 2021. Finally, Chapter X: the bill manages the deregulation of provisions parallel to the regulation of the KEKVA Act and the establishment of full compliance of these laws with the KEKVA Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/16369 on certain asset management issues and on the amendment of certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-01-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. To be continued, the leader of the Democratic Coalition is Mr László Varju. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-151	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think that the draft law that has been tabled gives us a number of reasons to open a debate in different areas. In this case, my fellow Member Vejkey listed in ten points the areas in which an amendment is to be made. That is why the law must be dealt with accordingly, because it is an extremely complex salad law, which amends a lot of things, including employee property, chemical safety, sport, built environment, labour code, my fellow Member has diligently classified all of this. And then there's a tenth part of the matter of the public-interest foundations in which the essence of the rescue, which is one, I'm going to grab this one, because there's a reason in all of them, otherwise I could say what they're doing to tie up their post-emergency cases. But one of these stands out, and this increases the number of assets saved in private foundations called public-interest foundations and, by the way, the number of foundations. In fact, the Fidesz law factory has been pushing them on us for a good year here in itself, and in fact puts the beneficiaries that you decide to make a beneficiary of, and this includes, of course, the politicians, some of whom are sitting here in Parliament, and some of whom we know from a further distance. So this bail-out goes on with this law, which actually joins the news that you don't have to account for, of course. In fact, it is about what our fellow Member Bajkai said about the story from somewhere in the belly of the big snake, that only 15 billion dollars of dividends were received by one of their breathing machine brokers who was involved in this, and in this way they are trying to tie up his affairs as well. But that my fellow Member from Bajkai is interested in listening to what I say, the big snake that has already covered it from MDF, KDNP, from version 1, 2, 3 of the small farmers' party to those who are among you and you are doing it. Here, on the opposition side, there is cooperation between parties, honourable Member, and in this respect, I believe that you should account for what you have done to your political competitors. This not only belongs to their political competitors, what they have done to them, because the foundations where they actually save the state's wealth, I think you know that, in line with the previous debate, if you clearly intend to keep it that way, this cannot remain so. That is why I am confident that the next government will have a way and opportunity to give this effort, in which the multitude or size of MOL shares had previously been taken out and given, to a new owner, which, by the way, was bought from the loan remaining in the state register for almost two billion euros, but they are beyond that. And here comes another version, because here another foundation is being handed over and passed on to another part of RÁBA Rt., so they take it away from the Hungarian people and make it their name. It is described as an emergency measure which has nothing to do with this, and I therefore believe that this law cannot be supported. But it is not just an emergency, but, as my fellow Member said, they are trying to correct their decision on the corrupted slave law in order to ensure the unity of the legal system and coherence, which, by the way, did not achieve any result, but did a lot of harm to the workers. At the time when the opposition drew attention to this, you did not like this. Then, when the opposition strongly drew attention to this, and, for example, we wanted the opposition to be able to speak in the MTVA building and in the TV that you have reserved and made party state, you have prevented it, prevented it, and then, even now, in this law, you will give new donations to this excellent fund. It is not enough that they operate the lie factory from which people are misinformed, deceived, with more than HUF 100 billion a year, and now they are even trying to give them significant real estate donations. I don't suppose this is about getting this property out of a circle where Members of Parliament are free and must visit, but they have something else to do, but given the outcome, I think they're doing it wrong. It is just as wrong when the Carpathian Basin Foundation, which was created in purely political interest, is planted and authorized by those who represent your ideology, and those who are Fidesz soldiers. This is not enough for packaging in this respect before running away. Don't even do it because it comes back to the Hungarian people from this point of view! But we could continue with the list of these foundations and the grant of the foundations. Therefore, on the part of the Democratic Coalition, we have no reason to support this law, but rather to be diligent so that the Hungarian people can get their rightful property back as soon as possible and not to fall into the hands of a Fidesz pro-Fidesz party. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-01-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. We now have a further speech from Members: Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, When Fidesz submits a salad law, we can always be confident that many of the various laws will be amended to hide some of the depraved things that are typical of them. I would like to highlight six points from this nearly 130-page bill where the Fidesz people are planning to assassinate 99 percent, where they want to further increase the interests of 1 percent, the wealth and power of the Fidesz circle. [[19.30]] The first, perhaps the most important, is the amendment of the slave law. In December 2018, Fidesz presented its package of amendments to the Labour Code for foreign industrial capital and the Fidesz oligarchs, which became known very quickly as a slave law and for good reason. The opposition then seized all the means, from the parliamentary protest to the organisation of protests to the Constitutional Court, and now one day before 1 May, the opinion of the body of constitutional judges appointed by Fidesz alone came out on the question of whether the provisions of the slave law were unconstitutional. And even this body has stated that yes, indeed, Parliament has committed a default constitutional violation if it has not resolved soothingly a number of issues that could have led workers to a serious legal disadvantage. In order to remedy this, the opposition parties submitted a three-point legislative package, which was swept off the table just this Monday, and the Fidesz majority in the Business Development Committee did not allow it to be put on the agenda, saying that here is this wonderful salad law, which was submitted a week later than we have, in which they will settle the situation comfortably. This is, of course, an unreality, as Fidesz used to. In a single point, and very narrowly there, they are trying to adversely address what the Constitutional Court has set as the task of the Parliament this year with the deadline of 31 July. We opposition parties have said that it should be enshrined in law, that as part of the Labour Code, no one can be dismissed because they do not undertake so-called voluntary overwork. We remember that 400 hours of overtime can be imposed on workers because of the slave law. We also said that we have to write down that there is a three-year working time limit that you have extended, but the average of the rest period has to come out within a maximum of one year, so you can't, say, work someone to death for two and a half years and then fire them well. We have also said that it is necessary to include this in the labour code, that even if, during the 36-month period, the collective agreement, which was concluded on the basis of this extended working time framework and which laid down the conditions favourable to workers, well, even if this is terminated, the additional rights which the trade union has acquired must prevail. You have only included one of these three points in your salad law, just as you have been, much weakerly modified, and from now on it is not acceptable to us at all, according to my personal belief that the Constitutional Court's judgment does not comply with the slave law amendment that you are trying to hide in this salad package. The second point I would like to highlight is that I would like to be a little more attentive to my own neighborhood, here in Buda, the II. The Kádár villa is in the district, which you now give to the Syrian Orthodox Religious Association to be their guest house. Well, I don't know how many Syrian Orthodoxs there are in the country, and from where they see what kind of guests, they invite me, but I think it's a little too much to give them a villa with such high-value, representative functions, while there's the II. The housing crisis in the district rages just as much as in many places in the country. For example, public servants who are forced to work for unfairly low wages because of your policy often cannot afford local housing. For example, local health care, education and law enforcement workers could be able to build employment homes, especially as you are about to evict thirty families, former and current health workers in the district. So, for example, for such purposes, I would rather support the transfer of wealth than be a guest house of the Syrian Orthodox Religious Association in the future. But not only is this state asset being played out, I am going to move to the third point, but, as we got used to, the Orbán government is preparing for failure, packing, and putting in the package an ever-larger and larger part of the public wealth, and these packages are being issued to all trusted Fidesz foundations and other legal entities. We also see a number of examples of this in this salad law. The fourth point is what my colleague Gergely Kálló explained in detail that he is being punished, and that Dunaújváros is being punished again. It is not enough to take away their business tax revenues, it is not enough that they are taking political revenge against the city, which has clearly and repeatedly said that it does not ask for the rule of Fidesz, and now you are responding to this by taking away not only their income, but also the right to manage the territories they own, so that they can then be deprived of additional income on this basis. It's quite simply shameful! The fourth point was therefore the punishment of Dunaújváros. The fifth is the nationalization of the flask program. There is a well-functioning programme where there is indeed an opportunity to provide more money, more attention, more support, but no in the current structure. You want to nationalise this whole sector for some reason, maybe because you realize that there's a good business opportunity in this, maybe, because we're gonna see again what you're gonna see after every nationalization, that what you're buying up in public money, you're gonna sell it to your friends cheaply. This is why the Hungarian state's operating expenditure, the resources spent on economic functions, are very high throughout the European Union, but also in the developed world. You guys buy expensive and sell cheap. They buy it expensively and sell it cheaply to their friends so that they can skimm the benefits of these businesses. The same logic can be seen in relation to the right to pre-empt property in the World Heritage Site. This is the sixth, last point I would like to highlight from this truly vile fidesz salad law. Here, they are preparing for the World Heritage Site, which is already under their housing mafia law, if anyone sells any real estate, then they have the right to pre-empt it to the state. Now, we can follow the chain where the local authorities are to play these valuable properties into the hands of their buddies in four steps by first making a law about taking them away from the municipalities or obliging them to sell them, and then the municipalities have to sell these properties to the tenants, and then, apparently, the state buys these properties from these former tenants and fresh owners for public money, and then they can pass them on to the pals again cheaply. So this is how we managed to figure out how the local government property will become state-owned, so bought out of public money at the end, these properties can be landed in fidesz buddy hands and pockets, Hungary and Budapest's most valuable properties, as part of the World Heritage Site on Andrássy Avenue or in the Castle District. So this infinite despicableness is also included in this salad law. And if we were to go further and go further, we could give a number of similar examples, but I think that this is just enough to say that, on the one hand, we are going to make up for these pigs after the change of government in 2022, the Christmas government is going to take back the looted assets from 1 percent you represent, and in the meantime, we are rejecting this bill as it is. The Dialogue Group will vote no, and we encourage everyone else who has the right mind and the right heart to vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-01-154	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Balázs Orbán, the rapporteur, wants to reflect on what has been said. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-01-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me to respond to some of the questions raised; one is the employment policy and the labour code. I understand that the left is trying to act on the basis of this political science and, by the way, I also have the theoretical foundations, so the left is traditionally trying to act as a representative of the workers' interests who live on simple wages and salaries, but unfortunately we see that the left has left these social groups; this process is also taking place in the West, and it no longer represents them. [[19.40]] They represent some global interest everywhere from the United States of America, but these groups are clearly left to themselves, and they are actually desperate to pretend, but only at the level of communication, as if they were still concerned with the representation of workers' rights or the improvement of the situation of people living on wages and salaries. This is not the case, this task lies with the political forces on the right, and the political forces on the right welcome and proudly take on this task. In this context, if we compare the performance of the left and right over the last 11 years, we can see that, while you have caused unemployment above 12 percent, in the event of an international financial and economic crisis, we have managed to take wages from people, raise taxes and make the situation of businesses difficult, contrary to a serious wage increase and serious employment expansion in Hungary prior to the current crisis management period. Fortunately, we have managed to preserve these results, and our aim is to improve these results by restarting Hungary. So I am suggesting that while you are trying to obstruct Parliament's work with whistle, drum and reed violin on various policy proposals relating to the Code of Work, while the right-wing government has created an extra 800 000 jobs in Hungary. If you and your government had meant not minus hundreds of thousands of jobs for Hungary, then it might be worth taking seriously what you say, but unfortunately we have to deal with this at the level of the political hack campaign. And there is nothing more to show than that it did not succeed, although they were in a difficult position, because ten years ago we have been hearing from you that the Constitutional Court is a non-independent organisation, and now the Constitutional Court has made a decision that may seem to you to be more favourable, at least from a political point of view, so many of you have taken a stand and have tried to explain what this decision of the Constitutional Court is all about. I am glad that if we agreed that the Constitutional Court is a serious body I have been saying this for years. I'm glad you think so now. So let's see, then, that the code of work you call the slave law under which 800 thousand more people work in Hungary, in which the average wage has more than doubled and in which we have raised the minimum wage more than two and a half times the minimum wage, what the Constitutional Court has said about the code of this work. So you really did not say that it wasn't true that you actually made a motion to the Constitutional Court. Now, paragraph 15 of the Constitutional Court's decision on the motion has stated that the motion is not justified. This is the opinion of the Constitutional Court: it is not justified. The Constitutional Court is the Law of 2012 on the Labour Code, No 94, 109, 135. § 2 of the Act rejects the motion for the establishment and destruction of the fundamental law. The Constitutional Court also stated that the amendment of the law, based on general rules based on collective agreements, does not, in fact, include any more adverse requirements for workers employed within a working time frame of 4 months or more than 6 months, but not mandatory for 36 months, as regards the average of weekly working time, as well as the provision of guarantee rules for eligible scheduled working hours and daily and weekly rest periods. they haven't changed substantially. Point 96: With regard to the links referred to in the present case, it was concluded that Mt. and, in general, the labour law system is paying attention to possible abuses by the petitioners! provide workers with adequate protection or a system of redress. Then he also says that the requirement for volunteering as a guarantee clause adequately offsets the change, that there is no violation of fundamental rights, and that the labour law system provides workers with appropriate legal means in relation to the employer's efforts to exercise potential abusive rights, point. So it turns out that the reason why you almost destroyed this meeting room not so long ago, then the previous one was nothing more than political hysteria, and in fact you are attacking a labour law system in which more people are working in Hungary today, Hungarians are not in need of help, but more people are working on the labour market and receive higher wages. And it's true, there was one point, no one said otherwise: a constitutional requirement that the Parliament has nothing to do with is a duty of law enforcement; or there was a default of fundamental law in respect of a detailed rule, the bill contains clarification in this respect. [[Intercoms.]] In this respect, clarification is included in the bill. So what I understand is that you would like to abolish it, and I understand, Congressman Varju and Congressman Tordai, that you do not agree with the labour and labour law system that developed here after 2010, despite the fact that [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Despite how successful he was. I understand that it is not the Hungarian workers that are important to you, but even though the Constitutional Court has decided at a certain point and has not decided at other points, we will not withdraw from this system, even if they demand it. If you don't mind, I'd like to nuance one thing about Dunaújváros. If I understand correctly, this is essentially a conflict between a county town and a county government. I would like to point out with great respect that we are talking about a panel of elected representatives on the ground of two democratic legitimacy, and I think that they act on behalf of the Fejér County on the one hand and the Dunaújváros on the other. It is not for the government to choose between these organisations, nor for its honour, nor for its office. We have to support everyone. If you look at the fact that Dunaújváros has been the winner or loser of the government of the last ten years or 11 years compared to the previous period, you will see that Dunaújváros and the region's winner were also Dunaújváros. So if you look at the investment you've been talking about, the investment, if I remember correctly, has been continuously expanding since 2006. A new enlargement has just been announced. Almost 700 billion investment is also under way in the region. [[Gergely Kálló: We don't get the business tax even though it goes!]] In addition, there are Turkish investors, additional investments are known. This is in the interest of both the region and the inhabitants of Dunaújváros. In addition, Duanújváros city funding is stable. I looked at the development aid of tens of billions of HUF was also received in the framework of the Modern Cities programme for cities with county rights. These subsidies are not decided by the government on a political basis. We have no more proof of this than that in the last round, in which we decided on such extraordinary subsidies, there are two opposition cities in the top 3 with more than 2 billion dollars in funding, Szeged and Pécs. If what you claim to be true is that you support government settlements on the basis of party policy logic, then these municipalities could not have received development or operational support. Moreover, in the conflict between municipal bodies, the government does not want to take sides. We want to support everyone's proposals for the development of the region. I thought the magic trick that Congressman Tordai was trying to perform was extremely amusing, because it is very strongly fitting into the left-wing narrative that the government sells and privateizes everything, that we would otherwise advertise state pre-emption rights in the world heritage area and create a law. [[19.50]] This is the opposite, so it strengthens the position of the state. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] But, Congressman Tordai, although 18 expanded sentences had to be said, and I too had to hold on to the chair here to understand the narrative at the level of conspiracy theories that the granting of a pre-emptive right to the state in law and in a world heritage area contributes to the transfer of public property to private property. [[Bence of Turdai: Simple: buy and sell! Like this!]] So I had to hold on, I understood his logic, and that's when I laughed. Unfortunately, this is what psychology calls cognitive dissonance, when, in spite of the opposite facts, we try to fit them into our own little envelope and our own narrative, even if the facts have to be bent to do so. That's what you've been doing for the past few minutes. Human reproduction. I admit honestly, when I thought about what I was going to talk about in the initial speech, I thought that I would talk a little less about this issue, because I am leaving room in the debate to come up with the views on this, but you did not really mention this issue of national strategy in any context; it was one thing, Mr Tordai, but he did not say anything about the national strategic context of this; that the support of barren couples, more than 300 thousand such couples in Hungary, we know how important their support is to you. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] ; that children designed and raised by these barren couples would be a key issue; and that they did not mention at all what suggestions they had on this matter, they only criticized the direction we were going. Let me tell you, if you've done this, I'll tell you what we've done. So from 2017, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager will support so-called five IVF cycles for the birth of the first child, while if the first cycle is successful, additional four or four cycles per child can be used publicly funded. At the same time, we have doubled the number of NEAK-funded flask baby procedures. The separation of the public and private health care systems has begun, and the National Human Reproduction Institute has been established, and we have made it a key government objective to help barren couples have children. From 2019, private companies working in this area have become state-owned, subject to the exercise of owner's rights. As from 1 February 2020, a 100 per cent grant will be granted for medicinal products used in the flask programme in the case of statutory establishments. In addition, the performance volume limit has been abolished, so there is no obstacle to the fastest possible supply. In 2020, a total surplus of HUF 5 billion was added to the system, on the one hand, to remove the volume limit and to make investigations and medicines free of charge. We believe that, in terms of both territorial access and the financial burden on the use of services, this regulation can provide better conditions than equal and market-based private services. It should not depend on whether a barren couple receive enough support, whether they are given the opportunity to live in a part of the country, or what income conditions they have, but should be available equally to all, in a publicly funded way. That is what this proposal is about, which you do not support. And how interesting it is if you allow me to refer back to my first comment on where the left started this classic left-wing argument, which I say is not to decide in such a national strategy area, where we believe there is no place for competition, no importance, no role, but to have public funding, everyone equally, from East Hungary to West Hungary, from rich to poor, if someone in Hungary wants to have children and cause difficulties, then be available in the public care system. It would be a classic left-wing argument, a classic left-wing political program. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] You speak against it, you do not support it; for you, these family policy measures are not important. They show a living example of how the left has been in crisis over the past decades, and why the intellectual way of thinking that you claim to have is empty, regardless of whether it's 99 percent or 1 percent, it doesn't matter, it's intellectually empty. And the same is the case if the President allows one last point on the issue of higher education. Here, too, Congressman Varju had to jump the logic leap that he referred to the title of the law as a public trust fund. He said that standing on one of his legs, and then, yeah, yeah, these fidesz private foundations. So it is quite clear that this is about the establishment of foundations that perform the public function defined by Parliament in the form of foundations. Such a system was also in Hungary before, it was called public foundations, you have abolished them, you have overthrown them, because they could not bear the fact that entities other than you exist in the country. What I can see is that I do not understand why you have a problem with the extra support for higher education, culture and the protection of built and natural heritage. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] These resources, which they now receive, and these assets, which they now receive, must be used to finance the public, with clear and strong guarantees, have not previously supported these goals, they have not supported culture, they have not supported education, they have not been used to protect the natural and built heritage. These areas of the human sector now receive additional assets and additional resources, despite the fact that we are in the middle of a crisis. The unworthy debate about university foundations that is currently taking place in Hungary: I propose to you one thing, which I suggested here in the speeches before the agenda, to look at how the universities of the top 50 started, what is the story of those universities in the Ivy League started. Yeah, in the 1800s. Yes, because the United States of America has become the most successful empire in the 20th century. In the 18th century, he did not have to suffer historic blows like Hungary and the Central European region. Do you know how it started? The state created a foundation, set up a university within the foundation, and gave him the state fortune to build a foundation, land, and factories. And the state continues to be a serious financier for these top 10 universities. Of course, the relationship between the state and the foundation and the university does not cease, but this was the necessary, but it is not sufficient for these universities to be able to compete in the international higher education space and take a winning position there. So if you really were interested in the issue of Hungarian higher education, you would not say why these assets are included in higher education, into the public interest trust fund, but why that is all, why more. In addition, I would like to say once again that the level of public ownership has increased by one and a half times since 2010 in Hungary. I'm just saying, Congressman Tordai, because if you don't give me a god, the story turns out to be a government position, then you know who your allies will be. Now, these are the allies who took the state fortune to the market, not to do public service, giving it to my friends. The property elements that the National Assembly now gives to Hungarian higher education had to be recovered from abroad. [[20.00]] Because Congressman Varju, sitting next to you, and his glorious team, held him in foreign ownership, for example, if you've brought up the MOL shares, first they let in an Austrian hostile takeover, and then they let the whole pakette play for the Russians. That's where we had to get it back after 2010. Now, from now on, that strategic asset will serve Hungarian higher education, talent management and medical supply training. That's what you have a problem with. [[Bence Tordai and László Varju keep interrupting.]] That's what you have a problem with. Unfortunately, this is a big situation with regard to the transformation of higher education. So everything you're telling me [[László Varju: True!]] in the field of higher education, health, culture, the human sector, it's actually nothing more than a hoax, because these areas are not important to you, they don't want to give you any more wealth. We acknowledge that, of course, you have every right to do so, but I would like to ask you to do so, not now, before the elections in 22 and only after 22 when you will fail to gain the voter's trust again, so that you will at least think about what I said at the beginning what the original role of the left was, what the role should be played, how to regain the voter's trust. Then I hope that you will reconsider these policies, because otherwise we will not be able to work together to strengthen and rebuild Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-06-01-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is not as an opinion, but as a fact that the debate is considerably shorter by chairing and not sitting in my seat as a representative. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I wanted to remember.]] And I can't do that. However, for information, Mr Parliament, it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 16 a.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First of all, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr László Varju, may speak: what is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-157	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Indeed, I regularly have the opportunity and the opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity to report and draw attention to the experiences that, I think, may or may not be of interest to all of us in the district of a large city. Therefore, I would like to touch on two or three issues that have led to a debate on the ground, but have also created a situation for voters to express their views. The first subject to which I would like to draw attention is affected by the traffic conditions of my constituency, which is a very old issue on the Aquincum Bridge. In Újpesten there is a northern connecting bridge, on which rail transport is still taking place, pedestrian and cycling, but by car, tram or trolley you can cross from one side of the Danube to another with a much larger detour. The question arises that the construction of a new bridge offers a solution to the problem that affects the region in terms of transport. In addition to the effect of traffic relief, the issue of noise and air pollution should also be taken into account. Therefore, a real impact assessment is needed in order to be able to judge this. Since, as I mentioned, this debate has been going on for a long time, the City Council intends to put an end to this old case. In addition to the assessment of feasibility, there will be a public consultation on whether or not this bridge is necessary. I would like to draw attention to this public consultation, this matter, the subject and the possibility. In this context, if it is possible to clarify precisely the function of the bridge, which affects not only the transfer from one side to the other, but also the overall potential of transport, it creates two completely different development options. It is therefore necessary for us to discuss this and for as many people as possible to express their views so that we can provide answers to these questions in the interests of the inhabitants concerned. In this constituency, I would say that we too are hit by the Fidesz government by taking significant resources from the district's government and thus from the district's population in recent months. The impact will not be left unmarked, for example, by changing the conditions for the removal and collection of waste. In the collection of garbage, the capital can do less because of withdrawal, and therefore, on the part of the population, I can see that a voluntary movement has also started in order to collect the garbage, to prevent littering, because the possibility of this has also been reduced in a significant part, as I say, mainly because the government has reduced the resources of the municipalities and the possibility of this changing in this way. But I also consider it important that a significant step has been taken by the municipality in terms of cooperation in the capital, as a result of the fact that the development of bicycle infrastructure is underway in Budapest IV. the project financed by the European Union in its district. Here, the more than 500 million HUF development offers many opportunities, either to renovate the road network or to create safe transport for the population. I wish that Újpest's leadership would be successful in this, and I ask you to keep an eye on it, because it will have good experience. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2021-06-01-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of Jobbik, Ádám Steinmetz, is next, "Why and to whom did they sell the children's resort in Balatonberény?" It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2021-06-01-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Although I only tell stories to our children, let me make an exception this time and tell you a story. It might turn out to be a true story. Once upon a time, Hungary had a beautiful part, which the inhabitants proudly called Somogyország. This region was abundant in all earthly wells and one of its greatest treasures was the Hungarian sea, Lake Balaton. Our country's leaders, who were rich in overpriced public investments, believed to be kings, and they also loved treasures. In addition to luxury planes and yachts, they were also attracted to lake properties. This is why the children's camp on the shore of Lake Balaton, the Sellő Camp in Balatonboglár and the children's camp in Balatonberény became private property. Yes, the camp where thousands of children could spend decades on vacation in the green corner of Lake Balaton and have had a lifetime experience. It happened that in 2012 the resort was owned by the State by the municipality of Vas county. Instead of the children's camp in Fonyódliget, which has been closed since 2018, the disadvantaged children could have been enjoyed here, but the leaders of our country also closed the children's camp in Balatonberény. After that, the yard and holiday building on the shore of Lake Balaton was sold today, with an area of 15 903 square meters. The high value property became private property in a hurry, two days for the bid application, and a week for the whole procedure. It is no coincidence, then, that at the starting price, the area of unparalleled beauty was sold without a bid for HUF 527 million and HUF 760,000. The buyer was certainly not a small man, since the 194 million auction warranty was created in two days. [[20.10]] So the family-friendly leaders of Hungary took away the possibility of spending holidays for children of poor families just so that some people could have more invested property on the shore of Lake Balaton. Why did they sell the resort? We've already had an answer for that. Who did they give it to? We'll find out soon enough. Unfortunately, the old function of the children's resort will no longer be restored, but, ladies and gentlemen, the tale is not over here, it will continue in 2022. The proud citizens of Somogy will write the end of the story, and for those who have turned the community's wealth into the private property of some people, people will tell you it's the end, but don't run away. Thank you for listening. [[Gergely Kálló applauds.]]
u2021-06-01-160	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Congressman András Aradski, I'm glad you're here. Post-meeting speech. Latest issues What about the Érd budget? You can say it with an address. Here you go.
u2021-06-01-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, What about the Érd budget? The basic purpose of my comment is to inform you and the citizens of my constituency, through the example of Érd, about the actual performance of a left-wing city management. It is common for left-wing leaders to alert even during the coronal virus epidemic to visit financial collapse instead of doing their job, i.e. by devotion and expertise, to lead their settlements standing on the ground of reality. In the case of Érd, for example, it is spread that the city budget deficit is HUF 3 billion 250 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He's forced to live with that shortage. This is said by Anett Bősz, a Member of the Democratic Coalition, who, for the sake of the accuracy of the information, is the wife of Mayor László Tűzik. However, reality is facing the Congresswoman. The mayor's husband, who was also the managing director of SZDSZ, wrote in black and white in the submission of the city's budget for 2021 that the city receives HUF 1 billion and HUF 236 million more operating aid, so the state supports the tasks of the Municipality of Érd with more than HUF 6,000 million. This in itself rebuts the several months since the announcement that the government is bleeding out the local governments led by the left. Let's look at the details. The health services receive 400 million HUF more support, a total of 1.8 billion HUF. In a larger proportion, more than 37 percent of the aid was increased by the State in terms of overall tasks, and it is a free-to-spend amount. It is no wonder that the mayor's quote is so inspired:. As regards the operation of the settlement, the municipality receives a significantly higher amount of funding for green area management, public lighting and general settlement operations than in the previous year, with a total increase of HUF 360 million. HUF 200 million more for the social sector, 20 percent more for the public education, 240 million forints. Based on what has been said, it can be said that the HUF 770 million awarded to Érd due to the epidemiological situation was not established on a political basis, but on a professional basis. The amount awarded to the Érd is right to be proud. Dear House, As you can see, on the left-hand side of the Gyurcsány Ferenc expired Prime Minister, it is not the facts, it is not the interests of the settlements, it is the crazily expected change of government. For many, it becomes clear that the representative in the DK fraction does not represent the citizens of the 1st constituency of Pest county, but Ferenc Gyurcsány, also accepting that the words of the mayor of the husband quoted above are null and void. Dear House, In addition to what has been said, it is also visible and noticeable that the performance of the programme of Modern Cities is suffering from noticeable disturbances, despite the fact that the city has about HUF 20 billion at its disposal. Public procurement is lagging behind, the construction of pre-schools in the Upper Park City and the renovation of the settlement school is delayed. Among other things, there is a lack of an entrepreneurial village and a kind of innovation investment. These would be very important investments for the tax revenue of Vörd, because increasing the business tax is a fundamental interest for Érd. What is being built is only public money, investment by state companies, see: Törökbálint út node. It is important to stress that this is an investment made by public companies with public money, although on Facebook the city administration makes it theirs. This is the case, but let's take a look at the future. I have always been sensitive in matters of noise protection, in the case of Érd, Törökbálin and Diósd, I have listened to the words of the citizens. I have been negotiating with the competent minister, the heads of the ministry, and I have always been sensitive about how to resolve this situation. During the pandemic, during my illness, the Ministry informed interested residents that a major investment would be made from EU funds between 2023-26. It's easier to change reality than to shape the future, but I'm focused on the latter. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2021-06-01-162	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, will now give his speech after the agenda. I can't do that. That's his address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-01-163	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I recently had the opportunity to talk less than half an hour ago about an assassination that they wanted to commit against our district, which would have very serious consequences for the people living there and for the municipalities, but there is no minor problem with the current situation of Vasmű, which has been going on and going on since September last year. Since September, the iron workers have been paid in two instalments, the collective agreement has been terminated in an unprecedented manner, and the legal battles continue in an unprecedented and totally negative way. We got to the point that one night a 500-man army of security guards tried to take over the Ironworks area. All these processes, all these facts have been repeatedly brought to the attention of the government, and the municipality of Dunaújváros has exercised its right to apply, we warned you, I have spoken several times, but so far the Hungarian government has done nothing about one of the largest employers in the region. When I ask you why you do not help Hungary's only, therefore, largest iron company, you always say that Vasmű is a private company, so you have no obligation to help the factory. [[20.20]] There's one thing. Anyone who can read, is interested in the economy, can immediately see that you have supported private companies with billions of forints over the past year. I picked up 17 pieces. These 17 private companies are mostly Lőrinc Mészáros and private companies close to NER, who have received more than HUF 22.5 billion in state aid over the past year during the coronal virus epidemic. I repeat, these were private companies. Yet you keep getting rid of me by saying that Ironworks is a private company, so the government doesn't have a job to help him, so solve his problems by the company itself. Therefore, I do not consider this argument legitimate. We have suggested a number of things to you about how to help the Ironworks. We've made economic plans. We have quantified the amount of money, even in the form of a preferential loan that would help the Iron Works, to help us overcome these difficult periods. You've lost them all, you've rejected them all. I would now like to propose to you a totally free solution and a totally free one that could finally move forward with the Ironworks. Legal disputes continue, who's entitled to trial, who's authorized to run the factory. It is not our place to take a stand in this, it should be decided by the Hungarian courts and the Hungarian courts. But beyond the legal debates, everyone agrees. The majority owner of the Ironworks is our Russian Velesekonomban. If we look at the owner of the Velyeskonombank, we can see that it belongs to the Russian state. Please, why does the Hungarian state not contact the Russian state, the majority owner, and ask us to clarify the situation of Vasmű? No one wants to invest in a company where there's legal battles, an army of security guards, and I can still tell you what the problems are. If the Hungarian state were to take the trouble and say that it would cost nothing, a phone call, an appointment with an ambassador, and contact the majority owner, the Russian state, and clarify the situation of Vasmű in a short time, that would be a solution. We could move forward by allowing a capitalist investor to see the unheard-of fantasy and strength of the factory he already has. So please contact the Hungarian government, contact the majority owner, clarify the situation of the Ironworks, so that this factory can continue to operate in the future. We're going to be partners in this, and we're going to help you with that. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2021-06-01-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 7 June 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
