u2021-06-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the leadership of this meeting, you will be able to assist me with the later arrival of Winner Vinnai and Confidant Dezső notaries. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai coming to the Chamber: I'm here!]] Yes, the notary has arrived. Thank you. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai takes the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few days ago, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga proposed an amendment to make it 300 percent for companies supporting foundations instead of the 50 percent tax base tax relief originally planned, which means that there will be a tax exemption of HUF 3 behind each forint given to foundations, which will be provided by the government to businesses. At first sight, this amendment seems very strange, you might say, perverse, because let's think about why an incumbent government would want to give up the spending of its taxes, why would it want to give up; and why would it want to be decided not by the government, but by entrepreneurs at their discretion to make such a decision. So this is very surprising and very little to explain. But let's not be hasty about what the Minister of Finance says, because I'm trying to use Shakespeare's words here: crazy talk, but there's a point. However, in order to understand the government's true intention, behind which this proposal for action is based, we need to go back to the privatisation of universities, which, by the way, must also be booked as a very perverse privatisation. The economic policy textbooks will certainly remember this privatisation, when a dozen state-owned universities have been handed over to private foundations, their assets have been handed over forever and irreparably, since not only the right to operate, but also the right to establish. In fact, this privatization will be perverse because the free distribution of property could have been titled at the most, or it could have been justified if, in addition to the free transfer, it had entrusted the financing to this new owner. But this is not what happened to us, but rather what happened is that the budget continues to finance universities, the current costs of universities, so in addition to the free transfer of assets, it is also possible for these new foundations to go to the budget. Since the Fidesz government is increasingly seeing that it will not be able to win next year's elections, it is therefore very strong and is afraid of what will happen to these foundations, the universities transformed into the foundation form, who will finance them, because the new government may not be able to measure budget subsidies as abundantly as possible. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Definitely!]] Just like the current government does. This is why they invented this construction, which has made businesses very strongly interested in supporting these foundations, as they can receive very serious tax incentives, so they are also trying to take the wind out of the new government's budget sails. However, I have some bad news for you: we will not succeed in this maneuver, because we know that you know that, as a result, we have a vision for it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For destruction! There's a plan to destroy it!]] how to resolve this issue well and legally so that social interests really prevail. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] And you must immediately start hatting, raising money in case, after the election, it turns out that the cadres that have been transferred to the foundations will have nothing to spend. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Peter James...]] and they will not be able to pay the sum of HUF 1.5-2 million promised to them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So what I want for you is... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Time! Time's up!]] Sorry, my time's up. Excuse me. Thank you very much. Excuse me. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It happens.]]
u2021-06-08-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán responds. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I was sad to hear your speech because you might think that as an economist professor, you are aware of the basic concepts. Yes, and, as the Secretary of State Rétvári points out, we also had a job together. Listening to your speech, it made me very sad because as an economist professor, you are unaware of an economic concept: you used the word privatization. What we're doing here is the total opposite of that; it's not privatization, it's the total opposite of privatisation. What's privatization about? If you otherwise have doubts about what it looks like in practice, then turn right [[Shows by hand:]] To your right, everyone in that parliamentary horseshoe is a great expert in privatisation, and they can tell you what the trick is. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Congresswoman Demeter will certainly help. The whole point of privatisation is to turn public property into private property and turn its profits into private interests, that's what privatisation is all about. This is what the Socialist Government did, and this is what the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, to which you, Congresswoman Demeter, and the whole Jobbik applaud and, in fact, start in kalaka in the, 22 elections. When you make private interests in the public interest, and you take profits out here, there are opposite processes, because it's about universities getting a fortune. The assets that are available to the State are currently serving the cause of higher education. They will be included in higher education, and from now on, they will have to be used only for higher education, as well as for cultural policy and other purposes of public interest to which the law authorizes. The point is not, Mr President, that less money goes to higher education, that less wealth goes to higher education, but the opposite is that more money goes to higher education, more wealth goes to higher education. And from that point of view, it's completely opposite what you and your allies did during the previous crisis. What was it then, 2008-2009? The crisis has come, your enchantment is austerity, and the money has been withdrawn from the human sectors with austerity; it has been taken out of the sectors that are most important to citizens: universities, the future of young people, the social care system, health care, and these sectors. [[9.10]] What are we doing? What we do is we believe that, on the one hand, we need to reduce burdens, not think about restrictions in the event of a coronal virus epidemic, that's one side of it. On the other hand, more money needs to be put into human sectors, such as education and health care. Just let me draw your attention to the backhand of your speech. You accused us of making a system that we will not allow future governments, regardless of whether they are left-wing or right-wing governments, to allow them to withdraw wealth and money from higher education. Well, yeah, that's the charge, that's true. Indeed, we won't let it. What we want to do is to create a system that, if there is a problem, it doesn't matter whether there is a right-wing or left-wing government in Hungary, how does it happen to take money out of higher education? ! What do you mean? ! [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right!]] And if we can prevent that by legal means, then that must be prevented. And if you want to take the resources out of higher education again after 22 and take them out of health care and raise taxes, then we do not believe that this is a viable way, and we hope that voters will not actually allow you to do so. Once again, university transformation: see, Congressman, how the world's top 50, top 100 universities were formed 150 years ago, such as the Ivy League Universities, such as Yale, for example Harvard! They are universities in the form of foundations, in the same form. [[Noise.]] And the federal government gave them very serious assets then, very serious lands, stocks, factories, and that's how they made the leap of higher education that we're about to make ourselves. Moreover, this does not contradict what you have also brought up as a criticism that the state is still the biggest supporter of those universities. Harvard's biggest supporter is still the US Federal State and the Member State. There is also a system here in Hungary that has brought success to universities in the western half of the world and, in some situations, in the eastern half of the world. As a university person, you are hindering the competitiveness of universities from political considerations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's not me I have to account for, it's you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-4	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What is more important? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Secretary of State, since you've spoken to me like this, you've been teaching us about the concept of privatisation by being the chairman of the board of trustees of one of the Fidesz homeowners, one of the Fidesz private foundations. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] You're nothing but a fidesz party banker. I get it. Maybe it's a positive sign in your ranks. Believe me, it's not a positive sign for people. You are shoveling 500 billion forints out of taxpayers' money into a fidesz private foundation, that is what this is about. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] It is clear that this is your policy, and nothing else is available, so there is no proper economic policy in this country, and I would like to talk about this now, unfortunately, how your idea does not work. After all, recent analyses have shown that domestic plants play a subordinate role in international production, even at regional level, are in a weak position. [[Intercoms from the pro-government lines: What?! That's tough.]] The added value of Hungarian exports is extremely low, lower value in Europe has only been produced by Slovakia, Luxembourg and Malta, and while you are commenting on my opinion of the Fidesz household funds and the opinion of the people, you should be concerned with this, otherwise, that there are such serious problems in the Hungarian economy. This affects Hungarian people and reduces their opportunities. This is due to the fact that in the last decade 15-18 percent of Hungarian exports have been made by intermediate products, such as parts that have been transported in and out of the automotive industry, which have been cleared several times at domestic customs. It is clear that the hundreds of billions given to the multinationals, despite the fattening of the NER knights placed in position from public procurement, are well known for this, and the Hungarian economy is not able to contribute more on its own to domestic exports than it did ten years ago. The economic policy of the Fidesz governments is, unfortunately, built and built on the competitiveness of the cheap labour force today, meaning that it does not represent a substantially improved position and opportunities in the employees' and the entrepreneurial sector, so that Hungarian people are left behind many times. If you look at the local conditions after the national level, you can see, for example, the capital VIII. the small extent to which Fidesz's economic policy has solved the decades of employment problems. It is therefore no coincidence that effective programmes aimed at improving the employment situation are extremely important. In addition to helping employees, it is at least as important to encourage and help businesses in Józsefváros, from individual businesses to start-ups. After all, in order to put Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in a position, significant resources should be allocated to business recovery programmes that strengthen service sectors with a significant history and potential in the district. Domestic small businesses provide jobs in case you didn't get these numbers up against 70 percent of the people. In view of the data of the Hungarian economy, it is not surprising that Hungary's position in international value chains is extremely weak, and Hungary is in a very negative position in all major sectors, especially in the automotive industry and electronics. In conclusion, it is clear that the Hungarian economy is extremely exposed to crises, and that, unfortunately, the coronal virus epidemic has proved this and has increased it even further. In other words, over the past decade, the thousands of thousands of public funds burned on the basis of misguided economic policy ideas have not led to a substantial improvement in the internal structure and efficiency of the Hungarian economy, but have also strengthened the nature of the Hungarian economy assembly plant, and this is a huge sin that they have done. Today, the unsustainable nature of the policy that you represent is clearly evident and cannot continue to be built on cheap labour. It is clear that a completely different economic policy is needed, a new equilibrium situation that strikes a balance between the engagement of domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and multinational enterprises, clearly needs to be better supported and strengthened by small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In terms of government support for the engagement of domestic businesses and multinationals, this situation could be achieved not only by developing this new equilibrium situation, but also by more effective involvement of multi-enterprises in the local economy, in Ferencváros, with most brownfield development areas, but also by developing projects that are subject to government prestige investments or investor needs. With such a new approach to economic policy, it would be possible not only to describe Annex IX. the district, that almost 15 percent of large capital companies with at least 500 employees have their headquarters here, and that the presence of foreign capital is high, 80%, but also that they receive space and government support [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which can increase the number of locally employed people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-08-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I understand that you have failed to fully understand what the Secretary of State Orbán has said. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] in relation to trust funds in the public interest. You're an experiment... I'd like to try again with one sentence on this issue, although we've had a lot of discussions about it. We are talking here, honourable Member, as opposed to what you are constantly trying to mantrate, that public service trust foundations are set up that receive wealth, but this property can only be spent on anything but public service. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's not an opinion, that's a fact.]] When you speak against this, honourable Member, you are pursuing an anti-university policy, you are pursuing an anti-knowledge policy, and you are opposed to everything that gives Hungarian young people the opportunity to jump out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is also a strange thing, just to talk about the odds a little bit more, that you want to lecture the Hungarian government on crisis management. This is particularly strange of you, since you have different side changes, you can say that your party sentiments are completely unnecessary, you always return to the same place; to Ferenc Gyurcsány, to the same policy that has sabotaged the Hungarian families and who have brought the Hungarian economy into bankruptcy. There is absolutely no need for any political action, honourable Member, because it ends up in the same place as it was, by the way. On the other hand, the national civilian government believes in the creation and work of people. [[9.20]] Instead of aid, we build a work-based economy, and instead of framing families, we have implemented and implemented a series of family-friendly measures that help the interests of Hungarian families. This is also particularly important because the pre-coronal virus epidemic is the reason why we have been able to remain strong for the post-infection period. The three years before the epidemic were the best in terms of jobs and wages, so families and businesses had much more reserves compared to the previous crisis in 2007-2008, less exposed to the epidemic and its economic consequences. In April 2021, the unemployment rate in Hungary has been 4.4 percent recently. Let us be proud of this, honourable Member, because this is much lower than the EU average, that is 7.3 percent and that is the euro area average, which is 8 percent. There is also an important difference there, honourable Member, between the left, your policy and our policy, that while the left has dealt with the crisis with austerity and the scrapping of Hungarian companies and families, and we do not have any doubts, this is what it would do if it were to be taken back into power, it is described in their various papers and proposals, what taxes they would raise and how they would make life difficult for Hungarian families, in contrast, we have chosen a completely different way, in which we have reduced taxes among other things, we will rebuild the 13th month pension and help families raising children by countless means. This is also what our measures are about, that we have introduced wage subsidies, that we have launched a programme of job protection, that we have introduced a credit moratorium, which you have never supported, and that, when you have had the opportunity, you have voted against in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You talked about the value chains. I think that it is important that there are investors in Hungary, these investors produce value, and, moreover, investors are now coming to Hungary, who bring significant R &amp; D capacity. These are the most valuable jobs, and it is therefore particularly sad that you have even opposed the programme where we have given special wage support to those working in R &amp; D and innovation. It's quite amazing that they didn't even support this, which gives us the opportunity to beat us to the bend now, in the post-pest period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Oláh, DK Group, spoke with the title of Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In all the countries of the European Union, the renovation fund that they are creating was a wide-ranging social consultation with both local governments and residents. It is probably not entirely a coincidence that you have forgotten this wide-ranging social consultation, but sent out a document slylyly [[Lőrinc Nacsa: E-mail, not sneaky!]] And then they said, yes, they met with the mayor, who may have said something to you, but that there was no social consultation, that's for sure. You think that this is your private money, Fidesz's money, Viktor Orbán's money, the money of your oligarchs, but, honourable government, this is not the case, it is all our money, the Hungarians' money, and therefore, to spend it, a broad social consultation should be carried out. But since a significant part of this spending will already fall on the next government, we do not beg you to do this, replace it as it was done in other countries of Europe, and then we will do it ourselves. We're confident that a future Dobrev government will be able to properly distribute these funds. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Don't laugh, Congressman, because you can't give your friends the money, no matter how much you smile, it will be the Hungarians' money! You have forgotten to consult the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Terézváros, Honourable Government, so let me explain to you some of the things that I think it would not have hurt to be included in this plan. [[Róbert Zsigó: There is a pre-election.]] After 2022, Péterfy Hospital will finally receive the amount of money that can be renewed, as this affects not only the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Terézváros, but also two million people in several areas. According to the employees there, about 18-20 billion forints are needed for building development and 7-10 billion for asset development. You should have consulted on this and given this amount in particular during an epidemic period, it is even more important to move towards a luxury investment in Péterfy Hospital and not some suburban Fidesz-teleken. Dear Government, I'm sure it doesn't bother you that there are surgeries that have to wait two years in public health. You go to private health and you don't deal with it, but decent people are troubled by waiting so long for cataract surgery or hip replacement surgery. We're gonna put an end to this. While you spend your money on horse wellness and hunting world fairs, we will spend on health care and Péterfy Hospital. For you, stuffed animals are more important than the living Hungarian people, my honourable fellow Members; 70 billion forints are spent on the exhibition of stuffed animals during the crisis. What I can tell you is that you have completely forgotten about condominiums in Budapest. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the last government cycle, no funds, EU funds, could be refurbished. The warm home programme you started from a small source also concerned only houses built after 1947, fellow Members, and therefore the houses in Budapest downtown could not apply for it. You did not care about improving energy efficiency, so that the air of Budapest would be better. What I can tell you is that the next government will pay attention to this and wish to launch a major EU competition in downtown Budapest for the renovation of condominiums. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the last government cycle, no funds, EU funds, could be refurbished. The warm home programme you started from a small source also concerned only houses built after 1947, fellow Members, and therefore the houses in Budapest downtown could not apply for it. You did not care about improving energy efficiency, so that the air of Budapest would be better. What I can tell you is that the next government will pay attention to this and wish to launch a major EU competition in downtown Budapest for the renovation of condominiums. (Continuous noise. The president's ringing the bell. ) I know that this is not a big project where you can steal a lot at the same time as any stadium construction, but it is not important for us, but for people living here to live better in quality of life. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) We imagine Hungary, which is not about the fidesz privileged few, but about the decent many. You're from the party district of VII. in the District VI, Part of the district just wanted to collect the money, they reached for it with both hands, and even though we had several written proposals, we had an initiative to give back to the residents so that they could even initiate a window change for a healthy environment, repair insulation, and all the more, you have swept this thing down every time, in order to give a substantial support to the VI, VII., which is of great importance from a tourist point of view. district. You only take the money, but don't even think about supporting it. Dear Government, I told you these things, but you won't have much time to do them, and then the next government, the Dobrev government, will do it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2021-06-08-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-08-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. She's got a lot on her plate, so let me answer whatever I can. With regard to social consultation on EU money, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this statement has been repeatedly said that more than 500 partners have been agreed by the government. This means social partners as well as local governments and corporate players, so the government consults everyone who has an opinion on this issue. In fact, it was a parliamentary debate day. It is not our fault that if there is a parliamentary debate day, and you will even get rid of this fact. By the way, as far as the main directions for development in the EU are concerned, I would think, at least on the basis of your speeches so far, that we agree on the basis of the basics, because you find such things as health developments, green development, and we would like Hungarian education to receive more money for educational development than ever before. So what are the objectives that you do not support? Tell me that, please. As far as health developments are concerned, every hospital in Budapest and every rural hospital can expect to receive support in the future, as has already been supported. That is why more than 90 hospitals have been renewed in Hungary in recent years, and more than 50 clinics, and if I look at, say, the number of ambulances, only thousands have been acquired by the government in recent years, while you haven't had any. [[9.30]] And if I approach it from the budget side and see how much you have spent on this purpose and how much we spend next year's budget, then if we accept it, the difference will be 1700 billion forints; 1700 you say nothing. Waiting lists have decreased, and that is true even if they still need to be reduced. As far as condominiums are concerned, in general, housing policy, there is a conceptual difference between us. We want private property to be a determining factor, because it is a fundamental condition of civic existence. That is not the policy you are pursuing. But for those who want to renovate their own apartment, there is also a well-functioning program. You are also attacking this, and the renovation programme is a significant help for both the people living in Budapest and the people living in the countryside. And if you bring up the issue of apartments, I cannot go without saying that when it came to buying apartments from those who rent them from the municipality, the left attacked this proposal very hard, and now they refer to apartments. I am not talking about the fact that the home creation programme, which has proved its functionality and effectiveness, is being constantly attacked. And in the case of tourist developments, I can tell you that with tax cuts, terrace fee waivers, refund for canceled guest nights, in many ways. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] , with wage support, the government has helped tourism operators and they can still count on this support. By the way, as far as your city management is concerned, let's look at the last year and a half you've managed to put on the table: the number of homeless people on the street has increased, the public parks are being raised by weeds, and if it weren't for the lives of the capital, we'd be having fun calling it a hysterical. The heating support promised to all the elderly was nothing, even though Gergely Christmas promised, and the costs of the Chain Bridge renovation were constantly climbing up. We can't be surprised for a minute, knowing that Gergely Christmas is surrounded by your people, so the Gyurcsány Party's people at City Hall. During the time of István Tarlós there was order in this city, it is now breaking up in front of us, and I think that is at least a thin basis for applying for any more serious role, such as a Prime Minister's position. By the way, if you are interested in the ability of the left to run the city, you should spend half an hour in the downtown of Budapest or even in the outer districts, in any morning or afternoon. [[Dr. Pál Völner: An hour and a half.]] There are huge jams, directly linked to the capital-supervised investments, and it will be even worse in the coming weeks. Well, it's not the renovations, it's the fact that apparently they didn't think at all about how to reorganize transport so that these investments would be the least unpleasant. We know that the weeds are called beekeepers, and the only thing we ask is that when the whole town sets up, they should not call it a car stop, but what they call a giga plug. I can tell you that's not what they promised. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, asked for a speech on current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-13	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, 0.6 percent. Please remember this: 0.6 percent [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This amount will be transferred to pensioners in the second half of the week. A year ago, when the debate on this year's budget took place here in Parliament, countless opposition representatives pointed out that this would not be good. It was clear that this year's inflation would be far higher than the government's submission to the Budget Act. This has been acknowledged by the National Bank itself, since the documents annexed to the Budget Act have clarified that inflation will be significantly higher this year than the government thinks. Look, in the South Heves region, people in Zaránk or Erken live on a pension of 80-90 thousand forints. Let's see what this 80-90 thousand HUF pension and the 0.6 percent pension supplement will be enough for you these days! Well, look, it's enough for 20-25 ounces of tesco kissing sausage for a lot of people, but it's barely more than the amount you can buy a liter of food oil for. By the way, food oil: last year a better kind of food oil was available for about 500 HUF, and these now cost 650-660 HUF. And these are not the most expensive foods in Hungary, because it is enough to see only the prices of vegetables and fruit, or it is enough to see the price of petrol. As I said, the food oil is 21 percent, the flour is 8-9 percent, and the bakery goods are also to the same extent, milk and dairy products are no longer mentioned. It's no coincidence that people feel that there's a precious thing. There is a measurement that measures a subjective sense of inflation, and there people say that inflation is by far more than 10 percent compared to what the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is measuring. Since 2012, there hasn't been as much price on food as it was last month. At the time when the Orbán government switched to inflation-following pension raising techniques, I told them that this would be a scam of the century. It's a scam of the century because it practically freezes pensions, and with this technique, it just says that it increases your pension by the amount of money that goes down. So, last year, those who have lived miserablely few pensions will be guaranteed by Viktor Orbán that he will live miserablely few pensions again next year, and this technique constantly increases the disproportionateness of the pension system. At the same time, we have seen that there are items for which money is available, and there are cases concerning the pension system for which there is no money. There was no money to catch up on the low pensions, but there was money to pay the million-dollar pensions. There was no money for the disabled in recent years, but there was money to send the Elizabeth vouchers from Alaska to Australia and mail them. There has been no money in recent years to raise equity pensions, but there have been tens of billions forints for the payment of Ukrainian pensions. By the way, Ukrainian pension: you will see that when there is a reference, there are queues in Zahony, in the various cities of Szabolcs county, in front of the vending machines people who are not Hungarians. This story is not about Transcarpathian Hungarians, about those who live on the Hungarian social care system. Here and now, at the end of the spring session, I must say that in my opinion, the opposition will form a government in the spring of next year, and the first thing that will be done is the termination of the treaty which, to this day, ensures that thousands of Ukrainians will receive Hungarian pensions. I guarantee that anyone who has not earned a service period in Hungary, who has not paid a tax in Hungary, who has not paid a contribution in Hungary, will not receive a Hungarian pension. Thank you, and I don't want an answer.
u2021-06-08-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone expected you, honourable Member, to apologize to all Hungary when you stand up, first of all. Although yesterday you were protected by your own party partner, how good it was that you made the fake paramedics the chauvide with which you gained national fame, but perhaps it would have been better, to restore the minimum credibility, you would have needed to apologize to the Hungarian people for telling everyone that Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses, were sending people to their deaths, and you chose as a key witness a man who claimed to be a paramedic when you were never used in the rescue service. This is the credibility deficit you have and the entire left has. You could only increase that with your last sentences, honourable Member, when you said that the treaty that you have not given up for eight years under your governance will be cancelled by you on the first day. Honourable Member, you would have had eight years to do this, yet you have not once stepped on it. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] But what we do see is that for you, it doesn't matter if someone is Hungarian across the border. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes. Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] or living outside the border, but not Hungarian, everyone is taken under the same roof, and they don't want to help anyone because they belong to the community of the Hungarian nation. A few days after June 4th, to live here in Parliament, honourable Member [[Lajos Korózs talks all the time. The president's ringing the bell.]] that it doesn't matter to you whether someone lives in the territory of another country, but really belongs to the community of the Hungarian nation or not, it is completely indifferent to you. [[9.40]] Honourable Congressman, You were talking about helping older people not be at risk of poverty. Why didn't you think of that when you raised rent 15 times under your government when you were in charge of social affairs in the left-wing government? He has never once raised his word, he has never once been able to achieve that the interests of people living on a small income or a small pension are not the triumph of the will of multi-company companies in Hungary. How did you double the price of electricity then and triple the price of gas? You are talking about reducing the value of VAT, but there was no left-wing support for the VAT reduction of basic foodstuffs here in Parliament; whereas Gergely Christmas's party, Dialogue, submitted amendments to the 2020 budget that would have abolished, among other things, the reduced VAT rates, as they wanted to increase VAT revenue, so the price of milk, poultry, pork, eggs or even fish would be more expensive today if these left-wing proposals had been accepted by the Parliament. [[To the departure of Lajos Korózs:]] Do you know how much they wanted to iron on the Hungarian people? on the way out, perhaps with one ear, the honourable Member will listen to the number you have submitted, the left. You have proposed a tax increase of HUF 565 billion, and you have no longer heard it, Mr Korózs, because you have left the meeting room, so you have tabled an amendment of HUF 565 billion to the left, you would have introduced seven new taxes and raised taxes, this amount would have been drawn out of people's pockets. But we can also list the measures of their own period and the practice of these days, because not only VAT was raised a few moments after the 2006 election, we can see now, they promise a tax increase, more precisely a tax reduction before the election, as they did in 2006, and then a few weeks later, and then VAT was raised by 5 percent. But what are left-wing leaders doing today? On the one hand, they talk about the high price of vegetables. On the other hand, what profits did they make from the Budapest Nagybáni Market? More than a billion forints. How is it that profit, profit from the operation of the wholesale market, is more important to them than the lower price of vegetables or fruits? How is it that they want to increase the price of basic vegetables and fruits further through the market instead of helping people? No, well, profit was more important to them here, not helping people. In recent years, we have been able to stabilise and even increase the value of pensions, and we have also helped older people with many other programmes, including pension premium, pension supplement and Erzsébet voucher. This has also contributed to the fact that according to the European Union's reports, according to EU data, the proportion of elderly people over 65 living in poverty has decreased from 16.2 per cent to 6.7 per cent and the proportion of social exclusion and poverty among pensioners, i.e. any risk of poverty, has decreased by one tenth. It can therefore be seen that Fidesz-KDNP has been able to provide security and help for the elderly. And what we have heard here from Congressman Korózs and the people on the left before him is nothing more than a campaign speech in the constituency. He also spoke of Heves County, because because of his kamuvide production, the consequence of the party was that he would be restarted. Looks like that was the standard: who can fool an entire country with a camuvide or try [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But he'll get caught soon, and the left will reopen it in the election. That's the left hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-16	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Balczó Zoltán, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of the EU Recovery Fund. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-17	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Resources for the 2022 budget are also available from the recovery fund in the context of our membership of the EU. By mid-April, the government prepared Hungary's recovery and adaptation plan for the total available HUF 5800 billion of support and credit. Surprisingly, Viktor Orbán decided, during his negotiations in Brussels, that he would only apply for the HUF 2500 billion grant, but he would not use the credit line, and he quickly modified the plan, which he had submitted to Brussels to disregard the prior social consultation. For example, what is the value of negotiating with local government associations in the catch-up settlements component if the original 220 billion programme has been reduced to 77 billion? In parentheses: I ask the Secretary of State not to take account of me if the representative of another party considers differently that there has been social consultation. Mr Orbán said that the reason why they are giving up the loan is because they do not want to increase the public debt any more. At the same time, in November, the government took out a EUR 2.5 billion loan to potentially replace the EU's recovery amount on less favourable terms than the EU's joint loan provides. And, of course, there is another difference: this is not controlled by the EU Anti-Fraud Office. Does Jobbik want to get the government to increase public debt at all costs? Not at all. In order to make use of the EU credit line, part of it, two conditions should be met: on the one hand, the elimination of corruption involving the use of EU funds as seaweed and, on the other hand, the change in economic policy. Hungary is at the forefront of improper use of EU funds, not opposition accusations. According to numerical data, in the case of Hungary, nearly 4 percent of all payments of catch-up funds and agricultural funds between 2015 and 19 were found to be problematic and proposed penalties. And let's add: the vast majority of this is actually connected to Metro 4, if we deduct it, 1 percent can be linked to payments by the Orbán government, which is three times what Romania and Bulgaria have found. The Council of Ministers has made several serious statements on the use of EU funds, one of which I am now highlighting, and I quote: "There is no decisive and systematic action to combat high-level corruption. The Government could clearly express its commitment to the proper use of EU funds by joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as all other countries, with the exception of Hungary and Poland, of the 13 countries that joined the Union after 2004. Jobbik's proposal for a decision on this is pending. The credit line, in fact, is another condition for the effective use of all EU funds, to change the current economic policy. According to György Matolcsy, Hungary does not have a unified and clear vision. It is not an economic policy for the future, which particularly supports large international companies with discounts that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary cannot even dream of. Government economic policy: ensuring competitiveness with low wages, lowest corporate tax and additional discounts in the EU. A fresh and concrete example: the total profit of the Mercedes plant in Kecskemét in 2019, HUF 31 billion as dividends, is taken home by the owner, with the benefits being 2 percent of the effective corporate tax. This is therefore the government's economic policy: tax havens and cheap labour for international companies, fighting to stay on their feet for domestic SMEs. This is what the hundreds of thousands of people who have left the country in the absence of jobs that provide a secure livelihood have judged. Dear Secretary of State, For the sake of this country, I would like the necessary changes to begin now. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And don't wait for them to change government in 2022. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-08-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There is something about the fact that Jobbik brings up exactly the same subject as the Democratic Coalition in their speech before the agenda. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Let's get some more curling.]] But this is part of the beautiful new world. Of course, does it have a picantria to be a member or free? - Campaign [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] in the Hungarian Parliament, the political formation that took place in Brussels speaks quite clearly [[It's a voice from the governing party:]] But it's part of the beautiful new world, all we can do is adapt to it. [[9.50]] If I may, I would first rebut or nuance your allegations concerning the call for the Hungarian EU resource. Here we are in a lucky position not only to conflict opinions, but also facts, because there is also an ongoing development cycle, and we also have numbers on it, which are measurable, comparable and can be judged by the effectiveness of the use of Hungarian EU funds. Allow me to give you some of these numbers. For almost all usage indicators, Hungary is leading the V4 development policy cycle for 2014-20 and is performing above the EU 28 average in terms of drawdowns. The European Commission has so far called 62 percent of our framework, while Slovakia, for example, stands at 47 percent. The commitments are above 117 percent. 98 percent of the framework has already been paid by the government to the project executives, with the same indicator between 45 and 66 percent for the other countries. With regard to the V4 countries, Hungary's results are outstanding both in terms of the subsidies granted and in terms of both the subsidies contracted and the subsidies paid. The amount of aid claimed is also high, at 168 percent. There are also institutions that measure how these resources are used in the Hungarian economy. One of these institutions is Moody, which published an analysis just a few weeks ago, which says that GDP growth in Hungary has been increased by an average of 2.6 percentage points annually by EU funds. This in itself does not say much, but if you compare the same set of data, you can see how some countries' institutional systems and development policies work and how they benefit in the economy. Of the countries in the region, this 2.6 percent result is the best result, and in others, on average, the EU resource was able to increase GDP growth by 1.6 percentage points. It is no coincidence that Chancellor Angela Merkel herself said not so long ago that Hungary is making good use of EU funds, making smart investments and pursuing smart economic policies, and, in contrast to what you say on the left, it is using these funds to improve the well-being of the people. You are not arguing with me, but with Chancellor Angela Merkel, for example. The main objectives of the Hungarian RRF plan, which you mentioned, have not changed since the publication of the first documents. This brings together a HUF 2500 billion strategic development project for the next six years. These plans were submitted by us on May 11th. By the date of submission of the Hungarian plan, the Commission received plans from 14 Member States from 27 Member States. We hope that approval will also be one of the first to be granted at the end of the summer. This is important because, contrary to your proposals, we are working to ensure that these resources are reflected in the Hungarian economy as soon as possible. I think that position is untenable, even if we do not agree politically, so that these resources do not appear by 22:00. Because you and your allies are constantly saying that these resources should not appear, because you will want to decide on a political basis. We have the coronal virus epidemic here, and we think we need to help people now, and we need these resources in the Hungarian economy now. The other part is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There are several other Member States that have decided not to join: Poland, Denmark, Ireland, Sweden. We understand that this approach violates the sovereignty of the Member States at the moment, but we are working together and we are open. The current head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Laura Kövesi, is unfit for the post because on a political basis she conducted campaigns and proceedings against Hungarian representatives in Transylvania. You used to speak for the Hungarians, but I see that you now speak for Brussels in Budapest. Nice new times. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-20	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László Földi, KDNP Group asked for the title after the third wave. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last year and a half, Hungary has faced a challenge that has not tested the nation's resilience since the Spanish flu epidemic in a hundred years. We've had months of trying people, but thanks to the conscious defense and the exceptional performance of many, many people, it's now the time of reckoning and looking to the future. Above all, however, we must speak in the voice of compassion and thanks. We express our condolences to the families of those who died of the disease, and our prayers are for the spiritual salvation of the departed. We thank all those who have fought for human lives and for ensuring the country's viability in the first line of protection against the epidemic. We are also grateful to citizens who have complied with the rules, followed the recommendations of experts, and have been vaccinated with effective and safe vaccines. There's no doubt that not everyone was in the line of battle. The opposition drilled the fight against the epidemic wherever it could. They were interested in putting the nation through this crisis as soon as possible, at the cost of the greatest casualties. Soul on it! Ladies and gentlemen, We are now at the end of a long and dark tunnel. The Hungarian government has shown global foresight by obtaining effective and safe vaccines from wherever possible, aside from ideological and political reasons. As a result, more than 54 percent of the total Hungarian population have already received the first vaccination, and more than 38 percent have received the second vaccination. We gained time, freedom, and money by doing well in the vaccination program. Thanks to the consistent protection of epidemics, the cooperation of Hungarians and the high rate of vaccination, Hungary is now close to social immunity. This would never have worked without the Eastern vaccines. Citizens of other states are still wearing masks, suffering from closures and lack of vaccination, but we are among the first in the world to return to our normal lives, which we desperately need from a spiritual, physical and economic point of view. We had to fight the epidemic not only on health but also on the economic front. The task is huge. The viral crisis reduced the economy by about 5% last year, and this has had a serious impact on the labour market. For this reason, in the 2022 budget, a separate chapter was given to the re-launch of the economy. In the first three months of this year, domestic gross national product has already increased by 1.9 percent, significantly exceeding the EU average that is still declining. The second quarterly prognosis predicts an increase of 12-14 percent, and annual data can be well above 4 percent. The fact that the Hungarian unemployment rate is the fourth lowest in Europe refers to the crisis resistance of the Hungarian labour-based economy. The elements of the economic re-launch action plan contribute to the successful response of the Hungarian economy to the challenges and return to the dynamic growth path in as short a time as possible. All these measures will result in an economy starting from a more favourable situation, thus also laying the foundations for the 2022 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Breaking the third wave of the epidemic, recovering normal living conditions is a joint success between the government and the nation. We ask the government to continue to avoid disturbing those who are trying to push the Hungarian nation away from the right path of saving and restarting life and the economy solely because of individual gain. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2021-06-08-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-08-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to join you, and thank you for the hard and sacrificing work of those involved in defense, because without them, we would not have been able to break the third wave of the virus. Thank you, of course, for doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, but allow me to thank those medical students and students from other higher education institutions who have participated in the defence, not only have they learned, they not only stand up to the exams these days, but also have taken part in the defence as responsible citizens. And, as Congressman said, the virus did not only attack our health, but also the economy, and it was also a threat to our achievements so far. For this reason, it was necessary to focus on defence at first and to put protection first in the economic field as well. This is why, among other things, we introduced the credit moratorium, provided wage subsidies to sectors in serious situations, released social contribution taxes in these areas, and reduced the level of business tax for SMEs by half. I can also say, honourable Member, that the credit moratorium announced by the Hungarian Government is perhaps the largest credit moratorium in the world, which ensures that not only households but businesses do not have to pay the repayment if they feel that they cannot do so. Only this one measure protects 1.6 million families and about half a million businesses. Therefore, the Government decided to extend this measure in any event until the end of August. However, the sad situation, honourable Member, is that these measures have not been supported by the left either, just as you have said, and have not helped Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses at all. Instead of defending themselves, they were on the Gyurcsány show and they're busy making clowns and circuses. They didn't learn anything, the Gyurcsány coalition didn't learn anything. When they had the task of crisis management, more than 200,000 jobs were removed, workers' one month's wages were taken, but a month's pension was also taken from pensioners, their duration was reduced, while the VAT key was increased, family allowances were taxed, retirement age increased, real estate taxes were introduced, tuition fees were introduced and, in addition, our country was sold with a huge IMF-giga loan. Honourable Congressman, Now, however, we must focus on re-launching the economy, increasing employment. Therefore, from the beginning of June, a wider range of people can benefit from the programme "Temporary Support for Businesses" which allows every job seeker registered for at least a month in addition to young job seekers. But in the context of the economic re-launch programme, from 1 January until the end of 22 the tax on housing is again 5 percent. Home renovation support will be granted to families from January 1st, 21st, and the state will take over half the cost of renovating their homes from families with at least one child, up to HUF 3 million, and we will also help renovate homes with a discount loan. From January 21 onwards, an unprecedented increase in medical wages began in health care, and the 13th month's pension will be rebuilt, and from 22 onwards, young people under the age of 25 will receive a personal income tax exemption with a gross average salary, and for 10 years we will grant a zero-percent loan to small and medium-sized enterprises that need it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-08-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the government's vaccination program, the third wave of the corona virus was also broken. The number of active infected and hospitalized people is steadily decreasing. Thanks to the high grafting rate, summer in Hungary is also safer and freer than in many other European countries. Contrary to many foreign countries, Hungarian families and businesses have already rid themselves of most of the restrictions, they can plan more freely. However, the epidemic not only attacked the health of people, but also the Hungarian economy. The government has agreed that as many jobs as the epidemic takes, it will create so much. This was an extremely difficult commitment under the restrictions. A job can be created when production is started, in short, when the economy is back to normal. The government has fulfilled this commitment, because today there are as many people working as they did before the crisis. Improvements in employment data are mainly due to economic protection measures, wage subsidies and tax incentives. We expect the gradual re-launching of the economy to lead to further recovery in the labour market. As a reminder, left-wing crisis management is based on austerity, debt, and would be built on it today. The left did not help people in trouble, but increased their burden. He took a month's wages from civil servants, health workers, a month's pension from pensioners, raised taxes, stopped family subsidies, and sold the country with IMF loans. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, we chose a completely different path. We are still working to strengthen Hungary's exit from the crisis. The budget proposal 2022 also serves to reboot, as it is necessary to restart the economy in order for Hungary to overcome the economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic as soon as possible. The re-launch of the economy has already begun in my constituency. The reindustrialization of Kaposvár is already taking place in several areas. The county seat of Somogy is a dynamically developing settlement, the number of registered entrepreneurs is 10,000, the number of industrial employees reaches 15,000. Kaposvár is an investor-friendly city that is good, easy to approach, has an excellent workforce, a good business environment and even local investment incentives. We have renewable energy sources and we can provide high-quality services. Industrial areas and industrial parks are now over-demanded, so we would like to create a new industrial park in a 170-hectare area. The Rheinmetall military factory has already indicated its demand for a 10 hectares area. Yesterday we announced with Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó the arrival of the Turkish company Şişecam in Kaposvár, which has 67 subsidiaries in 18 countries, exports to 150 countries, has more than 21,000 employees in the world, Audi, BMW, Mercedes, Porsche or Rolls-Royce. It will carry out a HUF 75 billion investment for which it received HUF 12 billion from the government and will create 329 jobs. We are also proud of the Hungarian sugar manufacturing industry, as it has been developed with the help of a market leader and the government in recent years, as well as Kométa, which has created a by-product processing plant with a HUF 1.4 billion investment to ensure the jobs of 870 people. [[10.10]] Our goal with our tourism development and investments is to make Kaposvár and Zselic the leading destination of the tourist axis between Lake Balaton and Dráva. In 2022, the government will have more than 7,000 billion forints at its disposal, and we would like to make it worth tens of billions forints in Kaposvár. These developments are also a good example of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the government, and they provide a realistic opportunity to restart the Hungarian economy and the local economy as soon as possible. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister András Tállai wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The budget of 2022, as you pointed out in your speech, is the budget for restarting Hungary. The government's economic policy has not changed in this exceptional situation, and this also defined the preparation of the budget. The main objective is to preserve jobs and help create new jobs. In addition, the focus is on supporting families and encouraging investment, because if there is a job, then there is everything. In response to the economic challenges posed by the epidemic, the most important element of next year's budget is the economic re-launch action plan. The implementation of the action plan will allow everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to start over, to restart their life, their home life, their work life, the life of the enterprise. [[Move, growl.]] In addition to the fight against the epidemic, we will retain the values that we have represented so far. The budget of 2022 also prioritises the protection of families, support for families raising children and respect for the elderly. The bill ensures family support, re-launching the economy, including the restoration of the 13th month pension, the absence of young people under the age of 25, the further reduction of the employer's tax burden [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the resources needed to create jobs and support investment. The government expects a dynamic economic growth of around 5.2 per cent and a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 5.9 per cent in the 2022 budget bill; this deficit target corresponds to the EU average and is somewhat more favourable. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The same is the case with regard to public debt, as it now exceeded 80% of the public debt-to-GDP ratio due to the expenditure caused by crisis management, and now the reduction of public debt compared to gross domestic product is re-launched below 80% and later further downhill. In the budget, the government has created a reserve of 233 billion to manage risks. [[It's constant noise.]] In the opinion of the Fiscal Council, the bill complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law and, in line with that, the reduction in the sovereign debt indicator must be permanent. With regard to the planning of the deficit, it is important to note that this value should be set next year in such a way as to ensure the stability of the budget, the reduction of the deficit, while at the same time having the resources to re-launch the economy, support for families, businesses and investment. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Overall, the Hungarian deficit and public debt are also more favourable than European standards. Dear Parliament, In the structure of next year's budget, as has already been said, the economic re-launch targets are decisive, with HUF 7308 billion available. This has also led to the development of investments in Kaposvár, and will continue to be the case in the future. In the Anti-CDC Fund, about HUF 3620 billion is provided for health care and, if necessary, epidemiological spending, which will provide security for the country. The economic re-launch action plan is the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Our most important task after the epidemic is to restart Hungary, restart the economy, restart life. By 2030, Hungary will be among the five most successful countries in the European Union, where it is best to live, live and work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's ringing.]] My fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Result appearing on the table: 164 present, 35 away.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament, invites the designated Economic Committee, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's activities related to electronic communications and a report on the postal market, B/14790. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to vote by 114 votes to 54, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, invites the designated Cultural Committee, B/14774. The activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2020 For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee, with 116 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, asking the designated Economic Committee, B/16192. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 116 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, I/16429. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 58 votes against and one abstention. [[10.20]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of MSZP, I/16424. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes to 114, 57 against, with two abstentions. Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, I/16428. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 57 votes against and two abstentions. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/16438. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 57 votes against and two abstentions. Róbert Hondas, representative of Jobbik, I/16439. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes to 114, 59 against and two abstentions. Tibor Bana is an independent representative of I/16426. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 57 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following is the T/16361 on the announcement of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16361. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 170 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. The T-16362 Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan on the transfer of sentenced persons will be published. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/16362/1. No 2 submitted an adjustment to the part of the bill containing the authentic text of the Convention in English, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16362. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. It follows from the 1998 XXVI on the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities. Act and CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. T/15981. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15981. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 178 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. T/16222 on the amendment of certain laws concerning party foundations follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16222. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 119 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 7 abstentions. Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. T/1589. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1589. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 157 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 20 abstentions. It follows that T/16205 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the compulsory cancellation procedure and the winding-up procedure and related legislation will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16205/7. and the summary report by T/16205/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16205/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 37 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16205/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 33 abstentions. It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. T/16217. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16217/4. T/16217/5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/16217/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16217/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 8 abstentions. T/16203 on the amendment of certain laws to improve living conditions for single - parent families follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16203/8. and the summary report by T/16203/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16203/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 170 votes to none, with 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16203/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 180 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/16118 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/16118/1170. T/16118/1171. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of Article 129, 662 and 845 of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group, 1088, 1089 and 1090 of the Dialogue Group, the 1139 and 1140 of the DK Group, the 572, 573 and 574 of the Jobbik Group, and the 321, 499 and 949 of the amendments proposed to be maintained. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Dear Parliament, Amendment 129 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 662 tabled by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 116 votes against and three abstentions. Amendment 845, tabled by Péter Ungár. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 111 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment No 1088, tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 113 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment No 1089, tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 116 votes against and 5 abstentions. Amendment No 1090 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. Amendment 1139 was proposed by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 1140 proposed by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 39 abstentions. Amendment 572 proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 116 votes against and nine abstentions. Amendment 573 was proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 118 votes in favour, with 13 abstentions. Amendment 574 was proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 119 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 321 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 116 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 499 was proposed by Anita Kőrösi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 116 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 949 was proposed by Balázs Ander and Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 117 votes against and two abstentions. [[10.40]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/16118/1170 of the Dialogue Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 21 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 21 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16118/1170. Point 21 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 119 votes in favour, 61 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/16118/1170. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/16118/1179 and Act T/16118/1179. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place next week at our meeting. It follows that T/16208 on the amendment of certain tax laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16208/15. and the summary report by T/16208/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Article 4 (4) of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 4, 7 and 8 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 20 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 35 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/16208/15, the Dialogue and the DK Group are set out in Section T/16208/15. A separate vote was initiated on point 12 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16208/15. Point 12 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 121 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16208/15. Further points of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 61 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16208/20. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. Following the publication of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of State loans to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary, T/16209. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16209/5. T/16209/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16209/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16209/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 10.48-10.51) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dezső Believer)
u2021-06-08-29	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Noise.]] Again, please take your seats. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi consults with Dr. Zita Gurmai.]] Congresswoman, I'd like to signal you, too. Thank you for your understanding. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies 2020 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure follows. Report submitted by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights B/15278. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee is H/16380. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Before I give the floor to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, I would like to ask the congresswoman to finish the consultation now. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi consults with Dr. Zita Gurmai.]] I'm talking to you, Congresswoman, or go on outside. Thank you for your understanding. [[Agnes Kunhalmi is leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, author of the report. Officer, you have the floor.
u2021-06-08-30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by thanking you for the particular attention that we have given to this year's report. Thank you very much for the fact that we can talk about the events of 2020 so quickly and quickly. This is entirely the same as our professional opinion and vision, so I would like to thank Parliament once again for the fact that we can report on our 2020 report so soon this year. Let me begin by thanking you for the professional work that two of my deputy Commissioners, Mrs Szalayné Dr Sándor Erzsébet, and Vice-President Gyula Bándi and all the staff of the Office have done and done in 2020. I think that all the facts in writing before you which represent our year 2020 could not have been created without their professional work. I would like to begin by thanking every Hungarian citizen, every complainant, every citizen who comes to us for the trust that we are constantly honoured with. I think that this trust stimulates the professional activity that all the colleagues in our office are doing, and that the high number of citizens turn to us with their skills and problems, often in matters of major importance for their lives, shows the recognition that this office has been working with for 26 years now. Finally, as an introduction, let me thank Parliament, you too, honourable Members and gentlemen, and all the participants in Hungarian public life for the special attention they showed for our work in 2020. Thank you. Allow me to start by adding a few facts to our professional report: 102 reports were issued by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in 2020 and 57 reports in 2019. This indicates that we have almost doubled, we have doubled the number of reports we have published in 19. In 2019 we had 5693 cases and 7190 cases in 2020. This shows that the number of cases has also increased significantly. I trust that the number of cases dealt with in substance will also be satisfied by the citizens who come to us. Of course, if these were the only indicators of our work, we would be very satisfied, but obviously the number of cases dealt with in substance must also be taken into account in this respect. The year 2020, which we are reporting on, was a challenging period, and a particularly difficult period for the protection of fundamental rights is, or can now be, behind us. After all, during the year 2020 with major fundamental rights restrictions, all of our office's staff had to deal with the processing of newly received cases without having any previous practice in this respect, whether the previous practice of the Constitutional Court or any other usable practice. We are leaving behind a year of historical importance and challenges and struggles in 2020. The preservation and protection of human dignity is the main and most important task of legal protection, which cannot be influenced by the changing health situation and the introduction of sometimes restrictive measures in response. In the isolation of closed, residential institutions, personal attention and experience are of particular importance in the context of preventive protection measures. Based on these facts, Honourable Parliament, last spring we decided to launch a series of visits, in which we will visit several institutions and locations in person and with the help of my colleagues. I personally visited more than 80 sites in Hungary between April and the end of last year, and I can report to you that our work at 80 sites will be determined for a long time. We have gained experiences and experiences during these visits that will determine our work in the long term. Allow me to highlight some of the topics from my written report, obviously without the need for completeness. The first of these topics is a classic topic, the subject of legislative opinions. After the debate on the Committee on Justice, I must say that, through the publicity of Parliament, I would like to address the following sentences to all legislative bodies. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, having regard to his constitutional function and legal powers, participates only exceptionally in explicit codification work, but is able to influence the preparation of legislation by drawing up legislative proposals and by giving a fundamental opinion on draft legislation. [[11.00]] Compared to this, in 2020 we received 33 draft legislative acts for an opinion. We are sad because this means a reduction of one third, i.e. two thirds, compared to the 2019 figure. In 2019 this number was 108, and in 18 it was 154. Of course, we are aware that last year's downturn is due to the fact that 2020 was also an unusual year for the opinion of draft legislation. A special legal order was put in place during the period of emergency announced in order to protect citizens' whole and life, and the legislators wanted to respond quickly to the conditions requiring regulation. The legislative alignment has therefore been put in the background. However, I would also like to mention a positive example. As regards the amendment of laws on criminal proceedings and related to criminal proceedings, not only the Commissioner's opinion has been requested, but my colleagues have also been invited to various expert discussions, thank you for these. I can indicate that we are also available this year, and we ask all legislators to send us draft legislation for examination, evaluation and opinion on fundamental rights. Unfortunately, as in previous years, we received the proposals with a typically limited deadline. This obviously meant that the short time limits for comment made it difficult to answer these questions. However, in 2020, 85 percent of the draft legislation that comes to us has been given substantive opinions on 28 drafts, and we are ready for this year as well. Our legislative activity. In 2020 we initiated 26 amendments to a law or an overview of the legal environment in general, and in two cases we turned to the Constitutional Court in 2020 and in both cases we asked the Constitutional Court to interpret certain provisions of the Fundamental Law. In 2020, the powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights changed according to the legislator's intention. At the end of the year 2020, the legislative package on the abolition and integration of the Equal Treatment Authority into our office was adopted, in respect of which, as of 1 January 2021, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is responsible for equal treatment. Given that this function can be dated to this year, I would like to inform this House in detail in the next report. However, all I can say is that this transition, this integration, is smooth, does not involve the slightest harm to professional work, and the administration of these matters continues to be smooth. I would like to say a few words about the focus that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has on protecting children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of the most vulnerable social groups. I am able to inform you that a large part of the complaints that have been closed in 2020 were around a quarter, i.e. around 800 cases overall, on this subject, and I think that we would like to maintain this focus in the future. Let me give you an example of our activity in this area in 2020. In the context of child protection in 2020, an investigation was carried out on the basis of an individual complaint and it was found that the joint adoption of siblings in child protection was burdened with obstacles, problems and uncertainties. We have issued a report calling attention to the need to develop a practice in the best interests of children, i.e., if there is no irresistible obstacle, the brothers should not be separated, they should always be adopted together. The wallet agreed with our report, and in order to facilitate the joint adoption of the brothers, the preparation of the implementing regulation has started, and the practice will also be monitored as promised by the portfolio. The next issue, which I would like to mention orally before the Honourable Parliament, is the exercise of our new powers that began in 2020. On 27 February 2020, the Independent Police Complaints Board ceased, as decided by the legislator, and complaints concerning police measures will be dealt with by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights from the end of February 2020. In the new system, we can conduct an investigation prior to the final decision of the police in the official proceedings and allow me to highlight a few points in this area that have brought about a positive change for law-seeking citizens. Without the need for completeness, the most important positive elements are in this respect. The time limit for lodging a complaint is now one year from the affected police action. Previously, that deadline was 30 days. I think this is a serious step forward. From the end of February last year, I have the opportunity to act not only in the event of a serious violation of fundamental rights, but also in the event of any level of violation or direct threat to fundamental rights, even with the highest level of police officers. In the course of the Ombudsman's investigation of police measures, a more marked duty of cooperation and cooperation shall be imposed on any authority or body or person not covered by the investigation which, or which, may have relevant information in relation to the effective conduct of the investigation. In the new system, to mention a few more points, it is now possible to look at the official activities of the police and criminal state as a whole and to ensure integrated ombudsman control. Through the professional and institutional authority of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which is reinforced, among other things, by our UN national human rights institutional status, we are expected to have a greater impact on the activities of police bodies in order to enforce fundamental rights. Finally, let me point out one more point regarding the new system of complaints against police measures: the main police officers are now required to provide information on their position on their report within 30 days, as well as on the actions they have taken or are planning to take. I think that this list, these few points that make complaints against police measures more favourable to citizens, contains positive content for all Hungarian citizens seeking rights. Of course, the year 2020 has brought us serious challenges in this area, too, because under the circumstances of the epidemic, we had to create a new, separate department of the Office, the Police Directorate, which is led by the Police Director. Despite the epidemic, this happened smoothly, and the Police Directorate became an integral part of the Office. With regard to this area, I would like to mention that, in the summer of 2020, the legal provision for setting up a school guard entered into force. Even in the period of its introduction, we have tried to promote the establishment of the institution as perfect, precise and as behind-the-board as possible. In the summer of 2020, too, we set out the requirements for education and training of schoolmasters, which, I think, were incorporated into the training of schoolkeepers and the start of the school-guarding institution, after 1 September 2020, as long as it was presenceal education, we started to monitor the institution continuously in the year 2020, given the fact that the establishment of an institution affecting the fundamental rights of children is here. What I can tell you for information is that we are going to count on this activity for high-focused activities, and I and my colleagues are going to keep an eye on the school-guarding activity this year as well. I've visited several schools in person this year. [[11.10]] As regards the ombudsman's control of the state's police and criminal power, in 2020, I paid particular attention to the establishment of effective cooperation with police and enforcement bodies. In this context, I personally visited police, prison, asylum and foreign police institutions in 2020 on more than 26 occasions along the epidemic. I think that our experience here is also very useful in integrating it into our work, for the good part of the visits, and we have reported on the experiences there to the public and to the bodies concerned. In 2020, 19 substantive investigations were carried out in the area of law enforcement. Let me mention some areas that are most typical of investigating police complaints. These are complaints related to the obligation to take action, complaints related to the tone of the handling police officer and complaints related to the use of coercive devices, cuffing, physical coercion and complaints related to the obligation to identify and inform the police officer. Overall, I have to say, as I said at the beginning of this part, that the administration of police matters has become an integral part of our office as a whole, so I trust that we will be able to address these issues at least with such effectiveness and professionalism this year. Allow me to briefly say a few sentences from two Vice-Presidents' areas. Obviously, the professional area of the Deputy Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner is also included in detail in our report for 2020, but I would like to make oral additions here, too, to the public of the plenary session. With regard to the area of nationality law, I would like to mention that in 2020 the structure of complaints in matters of nationality changed somewhat. Rather than individual maladministration, there were more general complaints in the area of nationality law. The main topics and topics on these issues are: the decision-making mechanisms of the national authorities during the emergency period, the challenges of digital education in terms of nationality, the exercise of funeral and grace rights, the issues related to the planned census, the fight against hate speech, police production, procedures against children. With regard to the protection of the interests of future generations, I would like to underline it from the professional field of the Vice-President, and it is worth saying that the Deputy Commissioner's mandate to protect the interests of future generations is also at a unique international level. For future generations, this type of ombudsman protection, focusing on values, biodiversity, the water crisis, sustainability goals, receives significant international attention. Thanks to the Deputy Commissioner, we answer each request in substance, so in this respect, I think that we can be very proud of this mandate, also of this area of expertise. In 2020, we issued 11 joint reports with Deputy Commissioner, some of which I would like to mention: noise complaints, environmental protection, public transport, nature protection, water protection, remediation, settlement planning and environmental protection. Allow me to briefly describe our international activity in the next section. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has always been in close contact with the institutions in the field of protection of human rights at home and at international level, whose work he has helped with his resolutions, professional materials and, if necessary, with consultations. In accordance with our diverse mandate and responsibilities, I and the staff of my office have also been and are also involved in the work of umbrella organisations dealing with the various rights of the ombudsman. Since my entry into office, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has followed an international strategy focusing on the development of an active international presence and the development of intensive communication and professional cooperation with international actors in the protection of human rights. Of course, the coronal virus epidemic has brought significant changes in the care of these activities. As of mid-March last year, our interactions with our partners were almost entirely moved to the online space, and there were many planned events that we had to delay for the period after the epidemic. And finally, allow me another area that I would like to present to you orally, although our report clearly contains this in detail, and this is our public-interest reporting protection work. The protection of the rights of whistleblowers of public interest in Hungary has two pillars: one is an electronic system for making and registering notifications of public interest operated by our office, and the other is a review of the public interest administration and administration of the bodies empowered to act. For whistleblowers of public interest, the system provides an important opportunity to remain anonymous and anonymous to the body investigating the notification. For this reason, nearly 80 percent of the notifiers made use of this option in 2020 and requested that their personal data be made available exclusively to our agency. The figures: In 2020, 316 of these types of submissions were sent to our office, which was a multifaceted submission corresponding to the average of the last five years, and 73 requests for review of the procedure of bodies examining public interest notifications were received by our office. Finally, in the context of public-interest reporting protection, we maintain close international cooperation with international organisations bringing together these types of bodies, and, based on or using our experience here, we prepared and launched a comprehensive ombudsman inquiry in 2020, which is ongoing and which aims to map internal and external public-interest reporting channels for public bodies in the Hungarian administration. Overall, that is all I wanted to say, Mr President, Honourable Parliament, as an oral amendment. I trust that both in the Judicial Committee and in the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and what we have just spoken about are a round picture of our activity in 2020. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept our report for 2020. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-06-08-31	Thank you very much, officer. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a resolution, who will give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr Ákos Kozma, Dear Mrs Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet Deputy Ombudsman, who protects the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. Dear Professor Gyula Bándi, who is acting as deputy Ombudsman to protect the interests of future generations. At its meeting on 26 May 2021, the Parliament's Committee on Justice discussed the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates on the activities of the Committee on Fundamental Rights as a committee responsible for tasks and powers. During the hearing of the report, the committee examined the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act 40. § 2 performance of the requirements. [[11.20]] Article 30 of the Fundamental Law states that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out basic protection activities, anyone may initiate proceedings. In addition, it sets out, in general terms, the fundamental rights of the Commissioner to investigate or investigate any maladministration that has come to his/her knowledge of fundamental rights, to initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. The Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act highlights the areas to which particular attention should be paid. Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance with these rules, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies report on their activities in 2020 shows in sufficient detail the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the activities of the most vulnerable social groups, in particular persons with disabilities, in order to protect their rights. Last year was unusual because of the coronal virus epidemic. Remember, the pandemic has brought new challenges to all people and all institutions. Remember, also, because of the changed circumstances of the epidemic, the practice of the measures applied had to be re-established, which had to be resolved by the fundamental rights system. Ladies and Gentlemen, To sum up, the year 2020 can be said that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has received a total of 7190 cases, which is 30 percent higher than the previous year. More than half of the complaints received were submitted via electronic channels, which also shows the rise in online administration in the area of fundamental rights protection. In 2020, the majority of complaints were dominated by civil law, pension insurance, health insurance and enforcement cases. The Justice Committee welcomed the adoption of two thirds of the recommendations made by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by the bodies under investigation, which shows the effectiveness and increasing strength of the fundamental rights protection it provides. Congratulations on that. In the year 2020, the Commissioner was asked to give an opinion on more than 33 cases. In addition, the Commissioner and his deputies have formulated a number of legislative tasks on issues such as the seizure of the motor vehicle of the disabled debtor, the summer camping of children or the regulation of fireworks in New Year's Eve. It is to be recognised that the aim of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is to be informed, not only in online space in the country affected by the epidemic, but also in person of the measures taken to ensure compliance with the protection measures. The priority was therefore the protection and enforcement of children's educational rights and the rights of disadvantaged people, including homeless people and people with disabilities. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a result of the year 2020 the role of police complaint handling was transferred to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights before the outbreak, which the Ombudsman's office is the successor to the Independent Police Complaints Board. As a result, the Commissioner also examined the regularity of police measures to comply with curfew restrictions or public protection rules. The result of this year is that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his office is a new 21st century. It has been established and continues its effective and high-quality fundamental rights protection activities at a modern headquarters, meeting the requirements of the 20th century. At the committee meeting, MEPs asked the Commissioner and his alternates questions about the proportionality of the restriction of the right of assembly in the light of the epidemiological situation, the measures taken to enforce fundamental rights due to the pandemic and the possibilities for legal opinion. Ladies and Gentlemen, It was also mentioned at the committee meeting and the written report also mentions the Office's international activities. The Commissioner also found forums with which he was able to establish continuous cooperation with the UN and its various bodies as a national human rights institution in the epidemiological situation. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is also an active member of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions under the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions. The High Representative of the Hungarian Commissioner for Human Rights is the Council of Europe, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, with excellent working relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Our Commission thanks the Ombudsman and his deputies for their efforts in the epidemic situation, and we will continue to ensure our support in the future. The report before us fully meets the requirements of the law, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate called on by the committee representing the nationalities involved in the debate. I give the floor to the Romanian ethnic advocate Kresta Traján, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-06-08-34	Thank you. Onorate Domnule Președinte! Onorat Parliament! Onorate Domnule Ombudsman și Onorată Doamnă Vice-Ombudsman! Vă salut cu aleasă stimă în numerele Comisiei Naționalităților din Ungaria și al comunității românești pe care o reprezint! Mr President, Dear House, Dear Commissioner, Madam Vice-President, I welcome you with special respect on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Romanian minority community I represent. At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 11 May 2021, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and Dr. Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in the presence and information of Deputy Commissioner, B/15278. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. The Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationality Rights considered monitoring, evaluation and control of the enforcement of legislation in the interests of nationalities in Hungary as a priority in the reporting period covered by the Covid-19 epidemic. Its activities have helped to a significant extent to prepare the necessary amendments to national minority legislation and to provide technical support and parliamentary acceptance for their justification. [[11.30]] The Committee commends and thanks Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor for his successful work over the past nearly eight years. 2020 has been an extraordinary, new and challenging year for all of us. The radical narrowing of opportunities for meeting, the challenges of online contact and the economic and financial difficulties affecting both institutions and individuals have in a short time completely transformed the activities of national interest and protection bodies. The implementation of scheduled tasks, meeting new challenges and maintaining communities have put the actors in the national minority area to the test before. The emergency also clearly pointed to the worsening employment, social and health situation of the most vulnerable groups in society. In the face of the difficulties caused by the epidemic, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights moved to a new headquarters implementing organizational and several Methodical renewals, and in this context, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality and her colleagues continued their activities in 2020 with the usual high-quality professionalism, thoroughness and creative spirit. The detailed report shows that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights took over the tasks of the Independent Police Complaints Board which ceased at the end of February 2020 and that it can examine not only closed but also ongoing cases as a positive change for citizens. The case number shows that this is one of the most demanding fundamental rights protection activities on the part of citizens. In addition to examining complaints from the rights-seeking public, AJBH 19 carried out a substantive investigation in 2020, with its main areas being police tone and failure to act. Infrastructural development of the AJB Office and personal changes of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality Secretariat will facilitate more effective organisation of work. The essence of these changes is: new legal status and wage development, the elimination of the former organisational fragmentation of the area of nationality law, moving to a new headquarters, ensuring a modern working environment, the right to propose in the case of the distribution of national discrimination cases, and professional control in all cases of nationality. All staff involved in the area of nationality law have been integrated into the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality Secretariat. The integration of the Equal Treatment Authority started in connection with a legislative proposal initiated last year in the Office of the AJB, which ended in a legislative act, and was implemented from 1 January this year by adopting a version, with the assistance of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, which gives the Deputy Commissioner the opportunity to propose to the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, in every case, as regards matters of equal treatment, in order to treat these matters of nationality as a matter of authority or as a classic ombudsman in the Directorate-General for Equal Treatment. In the same law, a duty of cooperation was laid down that, in matters relating to equal treatment, the Directorate-General for Police and the Deputy Commissioner, DG Equal Treatment, is required to continuously consult all matters of ethnic interest. Therefore, since 1 January, the Directorate-General has not been able to consider matters of nationality without taking into account the advice and opinions of the Vice-President and of her colleagues. Despite the challenges in 2020, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality carried out intensive professional activities in which 351 individual submissions were examined, 20 ex officio procedures were initiated and 12 priority professional documents were issued. The structure of the submissions in the area of nationality changed somewhat in 2020 and the AJB Office sees a tendency to raise a higher number of general complaints involving all nationalities rather than individual maladministration, but more in principle. The number of complaints from the classic nationality area has decreased, and the number of requests due to the situation of the social crisis has increased, but within the number of cases of classic nationality there is a shift towards issues of education, nationality authorities, elections, censuses, individual and community names. The AJB Office also dealt with individual cases in a more general comprehensive investigation and increased the number of cases relating to discrimination, hate speech and hate-motivated acts. The extent of cases related to the local government of nationality was also decisive, if not in the same order of magnitude as before, but still a priority group. In particular, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality has been approached by the national authorities, which have identified or raised issues relating to the problem of declaring an emergency, and which have been at all the clarification of powers, operating conditions and the use of funding. It was cases of census, public employment, grace, cemetery, prosecution, infringement and enforcement that belonged to these ten priority groups. With regard to the distribution of nationalities, the trend has not changed compared to previous years that cases usually account for around 45-50 percent of the number of cases from the Roma community, which also shows that, in fact, the already complex difficulties that a large part of the Roma community is facing have been intensified by the pandemic period. The other priority nationality, the German community, has always produced a large number of cases each year, but according to the Deputy Commissioner's assessment, this number has been increased not only by the popular activity of the German community in general, but by the problem of the care of its relatives who were dragged onto the Rálenki robot. According to the case-by-case statement, the main topics were: national education 30; national authorities 25; cultural rights, individual and community language 59; care of war 71; social living conditions 53; hate speech and hate-motivated acts 13; police, criminal law enforcement 42; public employment, employment, service 24. A joint report by three Deputy Commissioners for Fundamental Rights and Nationality was prepared on a case relating to the exercise of their right to vote as head of national minority education and education institutions for the German self-government of a county town; a funeral procedure involving a Roma national and his family; a procedure concerning the assessment of the widow's pension of a Roma national. A closing letter containing three proposals for the application of the law of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality was issued: investigating a criminal case involving the handcuffing of a Roma national; investigating criminal proceedings against a child; investigating measures following the production of a Roma national. [[11.40]] Six Deputy Nationalities Commissioners' Resolutions were issued in principle on the preservation of the ethnic cultural value of the Sváb Örök Örök cemetery in Zsámbék, on issues of nationality law concerning the preparation and implementation of the 2021 census, on the professional and effective inclusion of Roma history in school curricula and educational material, on the impact of the pandemic on ethnic communities, on statements on the German ethnic community, on the need to fight against hate speech and on the possibilities to combat harmful content on video-sharing platforms, on measures to damage the Roma Holocaust monument in Budapest and on the need to combat hate-motivated incidents. Based on the report and on the experience of last year, the Committee has assessed the cooperation between the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities as meaningful and effective, and is confident that the joint and effective work will continue. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption in plenary of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020. Thank you very much for your attention. Vă mulțumesc pentru atenția cu care m-ați onorat.
u2021-06-08-35	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Becsó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to add a few things to what President Vejkey has said and put it in other light, but it is clear that, in the case of a report, the data and repetitions of the subject may be the same. According to Article 30 of the Fundamental Law, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out fundamental rights protection activities, anyone may initiate proceedings, initiate general or specific measures to remedy fundamental rights. The Fundamental Law also declares that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will report annually to Parliament on his activities, which is why we can be here today. The report has already been discussed in a very thorough and detailed manner before the Judicial Committee, which was otherwise deemed to be acceptable by the Committee. Within the framework of the Commissioner's activities, the report presents on its own the following areas: the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, the rights of the most vulnerable social groups, the rights of people with disabilities, the practical implementation of the prohibition of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment, the rights of children. Dear Parliament, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights paid constant attention to priority areas of investigation in accordance with the relevant provisions and spirit of the law. There were three such areas. One concerns the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable groups of children; the other concerns the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children; the third concerns the rights of nationalities in Hungary belonging to the Commissioner and his two alternates; and the protection of future generations and the right to a healthy environment. In addition, the Commissioner shall provide general information on the legal options available, irrespective of its competence, and, in the event of a need, shall provide information on the social care opportunities and assistance organisations available to the complainant, and, if necessary, may propose amendments and drafting of legislation. In 2020, a number of on-the-spot inspections on institutional operations and supply conditions were carried out. It is commendable that the Commissioner considered monitoring the situation of children in children's homes as a priority in both the first and second wave of the pandemic, as he was curious about the change in the protection of minors at the time of the announced emergency in the care of children, food, education and development. In the framework of such a visit, the Ombudsman visited the Special Children's Home of the Bezerédj-Castle Therapy Foundation, the Baranya County Children's Protection Centre and the Special Children's Home of Mohács, as well as the Kossuth Lajos Children's Home. Among the Ombudsman's protection of children's rights, parents or other legal representatives who turned to the Commissioner mainly challenged the procedure of guardians, including the most frequent cases concerning parental contact and against adoption, protection or recruitment procedures. The Ombudsman paid particular attention to the examination of complaints on the rights of the child, which he examined in 2020 for 287 submissions. The focus of the studies was, among other things, on issues relating to the guardianship process, parental and grandparents relations, adoption and protection issues, more effective protection of children against violence, or even school integration issues. On 23 September 2020, the Commissioner heard the oral report by the national police commissioner and his deputies on the school guard, in addition to which he concluded during field visits that the school guards were aware of the professional rules and the legal environment, and that, according to experience, school guards were mainly employed in school facilities where there were previous atrocities. It should also be noted that a number of reports have addressed the education and development of children with special educational needs. Dear fellow Members, Hungary's Fundamental Law protects natural resources as a common heritage of the nation. Future generations spokesperson for the protection of the common heritage of the nation and for promoting the right to a healthy environment and to physical and mental health, called attention to ensure access to clean air, and asked the government to inform the public about the harmful effects of improper heating habits, remind them of the ban on incineration, act against offenders, but do not leave anyone in an unheated apartment and help those in need. It also indicated in its invitation that the bill to amend the Water Management Act intends to change the authorisation system by a method the fundamental law of which has already been explicitly established by the Constitutional Court in a previous decision. The Deputy Commissioner therefore also approached the rapporteur and the parliamentary committees with a legislative proposal, proposing to promote the enforcement of the threefold obligation of protection laid down in Article P of the Fundamental Law. The Speaker of the Legislative Committee of the Parliament thanked for the provocative action and indicated that by accepting some of the constitutional concerns, the Parliament accepted the amended version of the bill. Among the professional activities of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality in 2020, it should be pointed out that it is also possible to launch investigations that require comprehensive and wider analytical work on issues that are important both for the preservation and transfer of nationality identity. As a result, twelve general professional documents of a legal nature were issued, three joint reports, six opinions in principle and a closing letter containing three proposals for application of the law were published. In 2020, priority topics were the census issues, the situation of national cemeteries and graveyards, the possibilities of combating hate speech and hate crimes, and the textbook and cultural representation of Roma. It is to be welcomed that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued to expand his international relations in 2020 by continuing the traditions of previous years, and continued contacts with the networks of ombudsman's rights and human rights established at international level to address common goals and problems. The Hungarian Ombudsman participated in the work of the European Ombudsman Institute, which is also a member of the Presidency, as well as the Network of European Ombudsmen. At the meeting of the Ombudsmen of the Visegrád Four, he proposed to examine the possibilities of fundamental rights complaints concerning police measures and more effective cooperation between the civil sector and the ombudsman institution as a subject to be discussed. [[11.50]] Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates carry out their duties under the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Rights Act at a high professional level, in a committed manner to the protection of fundamental rights. In addition, they regularly engage with international organisations and foreign ombudsmen. In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the 2020 report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and to support the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. The Fidesz Group supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-08-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-38	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. President, Deputy. Firstly, I would like to thank the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, his deputies and all the staff of the Office for their work beyond force in difficult circumstances, both in 2020 and in 21. So my first word is the voice of thanks. It is a very important institution, and they perform very important tasks. It now has a tradition of almost 300 years, if not in Hungary, but in Europe and in the world, it is an ombudsman's institution, since it was invented more than 300 years ago by XII. Charles is a Swedish king, and already 200 years ago, the powers and tasks of the Ombudsman were incorporated into the Swedish Constitution. It is true that at that time the king intended to use it for a little more than that, but his basic duties had already appeared. Another issue is that it was slowly established in Europe, in the European Union, and then only the Maastricht Treaty introduced it into the European Union just 30 years ago and supplemented the Roman Treaty, and it is obviously included in the Hungarian Constitution and Fundamental Law. At the time of socialism, it was believed that there was no need for such an institution in Hungary, and that it could only be created when the era of socialism ended and the regime changed. At that point, the development of this was brought to the fore, and in practically 1993 it was incorporated into the constitution at that time, and it was already in operation by 95. Therefore, at present it is essentially governed by Article 30 of the Fundamental Law, which shows that fundamental rights protection activities are the most important task and that maladministration is investigated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Here I have already made the slightest criticism, and obviously not against you, but against us, the legislator, that these maladministrations... To say that it is not a perfect legal concept, which would have been developed, and this should be drawn up separately, rather than included in the Fundamental Law, it would be better if this had been formulated at the basic level of law. They are obviously performing very nice tasks, because it is very important to protect children's rights, protect people with disabilities, protect homeless people, protect minorities' rights, but let's talk about the environment, and perhaps the most important thing is the protection of future generations. But I don't think there's any way to tell the difference. Both the report and the Commissioner have mentioned that they have the power of opinion on legislation, which we consider to be an important area. Here he mentioned the magnitude of these, and that it is very painful that in 2018 there were 154 requests for opinions, in 2019 only more than 100, and by 2020 this number decreased to 33. This is strange to me, too, because there is no more important forum and more competent forum than you in relation to fundamental rights, and I think that for the legislator, in any case, the part of the profession that deals with it most, who is the most prepared, has the greatest insight, is one of the most important, since we get the most authentic, the most appropriate answers from you. It is indeed a serious problem, as Commissioner has also said, that very short deadlines are being set at this stage, when a proposal, a proposal for legislation, must be given an opinion. I have already indicated this already, because the same is true of other bodies, such as the President of the National Court of Justice, Mr Seneyei, who indicated that these deadlines are very short, that there is no time to run through the court system, and that the same problem seems to exist. So when matters arrive at the Parliament so quickly, and we often find that the submitting government does not ask for social consultation, it does not want to know, then these things happen. And I am not talking to Covid about this decrease in number 33, but rather about the proliferation of such legislation in Hungary, which, in our opinion, is an extremely bad process, but obviously you are not responsible again, but the government, or the legislative body, or those who prepare the laws. Obviously, the problem here is, in my opinion, on their side in the first place. Indeed, the year 2020 was very new for you and a lot for everyone, because the emergence of the Covid-19 virus has created a whole new situation. I think that this was obviously the largest, most important part of health care, and it hit them the most, but it also brought a very important change to the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, because the appearance of Covid-19, new legislation and the emergence of new legislation, regulation legislation on the one hand affected freedoms, so it was also limited, the freedom of travel, obviously not only within a country, but in the whole world, obviously, it has narrowed contact with either a residential institution, hospitals, other institutions, children's homes. What is very important, Commissioner, is that there has been no previous practice in Hungary and I think there has been no other place in this regard, because, if we look at it, this kind of epidemic last hit Europe and the world after the First World War, when the so-called Spanish flu appeared in 1918 and was present in 19 and 20, and that is when it faced such challenges. Obviously, in today's modern world, it requires a completely different attitude, but we know very well, a lot of protocols, such as health protocols, have been developed for a long time, even 500 years ago in the epidemics. Here, too, it was stated when it was found that there were certain things in health that were not what they should have been. Okay, this is not about Covid, but it can be read from the 2020 report that a general ban on recording in hospitals is not enough in an internal policy. I think that, in many cases, health problems obviously affect a wide range of society and affect people's fundamental right to health. So if there is information about this, whether on Facebook or social media, then there is obviously very little such regulation and people have the right to know the problems there. Yes, Commissioner, he points out in his report that continuous monitoring of residential institutions is also a key issue for people with disabilities. Yeah, we think that's very important, too. The same applies to children's homes, which is also the continuous monitoring of them, which is also included in the report as to how important it is. After all, in previous years we have seen the problems of sexual abuse in children's homes, in previous reports on eating standards, and conflicts between residents and workers, and there is still a very important area that we are not used to talking about, this is an examination of the conflict between children's homes and neighbors and the relationship between living together. [[12.00]] I am pleased that in the previous report and in this too, they have already played a prominent role, and we have been promised that these will continue to be monitored. The vice-president protecting the interests of the future generation was very pleased with the right to clean air, the statement that our fundamental human right is the right to clean air. In the same way, it has already included the problem of low-quality fuel, the problem of waste incineration, the problem of burning lignite, and this is indeed very important, because we know that today a very, very large part of the disease, especially respiratory, comes from poor air quality. Indeed, medical society also considers it a stepping stone, a stepping stone, that in the future much more is needed to deal with air quality, and that, from what we have thought, the respiratory system is much more affected by bad air. So it's really a very important thing, it's worth dealing with. Regarding legislative proposals, which are included in the report, Commissioner, three points are highlighted: in the case of debt of persons with reduced mobility, the seizure of motor vehicles is exempt, but in practice there are certain problems; in relation to summer children's camps and New Year's Eve fireworks, it raises awareness of the risks of storage and use; in terms of environmental impacts, noise, air pollution and, not least, animal protection, more differentiated regulation is required. Maybe it would be better if we got more suggestions a year or so. I have a question for you. There was a small remark in the report that the Commissioner also maintained the proposals made in previous years. I meant this as a hint that, unfortunately, the legislator does not always take into account the proposals that you are making. I think that I would like to draw the attention of the legislator and, above all, the government here, to the fact that perhaps more attention should be paid to the fact that the proposals from you should be put here as much as possible, either on the Parliament's table or as a government decree or as a ministerial decree if such regulation is necessary. Since we are talking here about fundamental rights, I think that I should first of all highlight the failure of the Parliament when I see that these proposals have not come here and have not been drafted as a law here in Parliament. Then we see that there has been a special emphasis on investigating complaints about police coercion and power. Obviously, with the termination of the complaint panel, with the tasks taken over, this is of particular importance. We see that the number of cases received is quite a lot, 7190, the number of cases completed is about half of that, and the ongoing one is a bit more. Well, I don't know, that's what we do in the courts about the number of cases completed, and in general, if the number of cases pending is this large, it will cause congestion in the coming years. Perhaps, I do not know, it is clear from the file turnover and the available staff that it is sufficient for this kind of staff, or it would be necessary to have a larger number of finishes, as it is less than 50 percent. Then we were informed that the number of electronic submissions had increased exceedingly, and that there were five thousand e-mails, e-papers, customer gates, ParLex systems. It must be clearly seen that this will be the focus of customers in the future, and that electronic contact will be the future. It would also be interesting, I have tried to conclude where cases come from, although in the case of electronics it has not always been observed. We see that by far Budapest is leading by a thousand, while Pest county is next by five hundred. How interesting that, by looking at the ranking between counties, several complaints are lodged primarily by the more economically lagging counties. This is what you need to see, so the financial problems here may involve the violation of fundamental rights, as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, Hajdú-Bihar and Békés counties lead in the list of submissions. In the Transdanubian counties, where economic and financial conditions are better, there are far fewer complaints, this number is much better. On this basis, I see that the Commissioner's work, the work of the Vice-Presidents and the work of the entire office, which I would like to thank once again. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-06-08-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-40	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr Ombudsperson, Dear Deputy Madam and Deputy Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, B/15278 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020 A detailed presentation of the activities of the Ombudsman and his alternates in 2020, a detailed presentation of the Ombudsman's Office's inquiries and a mirror to the work on the Commissioner for Fundamental Human Rights, reporting on the results and reporting on the challenges of the future. H/16380 on the adoption of the accounts The EESC also supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Ombudsman and his alternates in 2020. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2020, the whole world, including Hungary, faced extraordinary challenges due to the coronal virus epidemic, with complex economic and social challenges that made the daily life of people and institutions difficult, including the life and functioning of the Ombudsman and his office. The measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the sacrifice of healthcare workers and the whole Hungarian society needed to join forces to say today, after a year and a half that we managed to reduce the coronal virus epidemic. This required extraordinary measures. The extraordinary measures have affected the daily lives of citizens, the exercise of their rights and social relations themselves in an unprecedented way. In order to mitigate health risks and to protect the Hungarian economy, in the year 2020 the government ordered the emergency on 11 March 2020 which ended on 18 June 2020 and the extraordinary legal order was re-introduced on 11 November 2020 which was still in force when the report was closed. In the exceptional legal situation, such as in the event of an emergency, and in proportion to the related measures, fundamental rights may be more restricted or even suspended where appropriate. In many respects, the exceptional situation has significantly influenced and shaped the operation of the Office. We congratulate the Ombudsman's Office on its continued and full constitutional function during the emergency and preparedness period. Thank you, Mr Ombudsperson, for regularly issuing communications informing the public about your work in and outside the epidemic situation, your essential findings, your inquiries into priority issues. Ladies and Gentlemen, During 2020, the Ombudsman received complaints and indications on various subjects and issues. There have been people who have asked for information on workers' rights or about the scope of information that employers can collect in an emergency. [[12.10]] Others informed the defendant Commissioner about the difficulties in digital education of children in difficult financial situations. Several reported hospital problems associated with the father's birth, but there was also a request for an increase in epidemiological protective equipment. They were interested in holding summer camps, and many people also asked for help in interpreting the rules of the established mortgage moratorium. The Ombudsman also received a signal about the lack of easy-to-understand information on persons with disabilities due to restrictions imposed in child protection institutions and the obstruction of contact with their children in separate parents. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite the pandemic, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights considered personal contact, dialogue and experience to be a priority in 2020. The current international ombudsmanship focused primarily on events in the online space. We thank you, Mr Ombudsman, for launching a series of national visits against this international practice in order to personally monitor the measures taken to combat the epidemic. Ladies and Gentlemen, The UN General Assembly adopted in 1993 a set of criteria for the principles of Paris, i.e. the basic principles for the functioning of national human rights institutions. The Hungarian ombudsman's office, like all other ombudsman's offices in the world, was accredited only to comply with these principles and became an officially recognised national human rights institution. There are also two categories of classification among recognised national human rights institutions, status A and status B, depending on the extent to which the institution complies with the principles of Paris. If you meet all the required criteria, you will get status A. Hungary has been in A status since 2014 and can speak to the most important human rights body of the United Nations, the Human Rights Council, and can also communicate directly with other human rights mechanisms. I thank Mr Kozma Ákos for his work as a national and international lawyer. Ladies and Gentlemen, The structure of the submissions submitted to the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality changed significantly in 2020. Overall, the number of complaints decreased. However, the number of submissions relating to the social crisis has increased significantly. In addition to clarifying individual cases, the Deputy Commissioner assisted in resolving and resolving problems in the long term by means of comprehensive professional resolutions. As in previous years, issues determining the operation and funding of national authorities and submissions to this effect, complaints concerning problems related to the position of representatives of national self-governments and the difficulties of cooperation between local and national authorities were also decisive in 2020. The challenges of the transition to digital education in relation to ethnic education and education, as well as the difficulties related to the functioning and exercise of the right of agreement of national authorities during an emergency, have emerged in the first place. I would like to thank Mr Imre Ritter, a German Member of the National Assembly, as well as the minority advocates for helping the Deputy Commissioner and thank you very much for the work of Mrs Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet, Deputy Ombudsman. I wish you further success and health in your work. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2020, more attention was paid to assessing and protecting the quality of our immediate environment, and the Pandemic also significantly influenced the activities of the Deputy Commissioner to protect the interests of future generations. In 2020, the Deputy Ombudsman responsible for protecting the interests of future generations repeatedly highlighted the importance of access to clean water and clean air, stressing its human rights character. Remember, the Deputy Commissioner's mandate to protect the interests of future generations is unique, even at international level. For future generations, this type of ombudsman protection, focusing on values, biodiversity, the water crisis, sustainable development goals, therefore receives significant international attention. Thus, among those who requested the opinion and experience of the Deputy Ombudsman responsible for protecting the interests of future generations was the UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights and the Environment, the Global Network of National Human Rights Institutions and the Human Rights to Water International Expert Group. Thank you again for the work of Deputy Ombudsman Gyula Bándi. I wish you further success and good health in your work. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 26 May 2021, the Committee on Justice of the Parliament, as a committee responsible for the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, discussed and accepted the report on the activities of the Committee on Fundamental Rights, which was submitted to H/16380. Proposal for a Decision No 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democrats support B/15278 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020. H/16380 on the adoption of the accounts and the adoption of the accounts. This Decision is addressed to the Kingdom of Norway. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-08-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr László Varga, who is speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Dear Deputys, Dear House, First of all, I would like to speak in the voice of thanks.
u2021-06-08-43	I'll get the technical staff to confirm your voice. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-44	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Commissioner, Dear Deputys, I would also like to thank you for your work and for the informative nature of the report. Obviously, Commissioner has been carrying out his duties since the autumn of 19 years, so in fact the report on the year 20 is the first full report that can be marked as a new President with his work. Among other things, the Commissioner's report focuses on two issues, one of which is health care. Of course, we cannot abandon the effects of the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary in relation to the year 2020. On the one hand, it cannot be recognised enough in this regard, as my fellow Members have done, and thank you for the sacrifice and self-sacrifice of health workers. On the other hand, it is perfectly natural that a number of fundamental rights have been particularly focused. Of course, the right and violation of the right to physical and mental health, which is also specifically designated by the Fundamental Law, should be highlighted. Unfortunately, more and more experts talk about the fact that the right to health depends beyond what territory of the country the citizen lives in, because, as can be seen from the statistics of the Crown Virus, we can see very different data regarding Budapest, Central Hungary and Western Transdanubia, and quite others in North Great Great Plains or in Northern Hungary. [[12.20]] In addition to the general state of health, statistics are already significantly influenced by the quality of care and the possibility of care, which is essentially defined by one thing, the place of residence. Of course, I do not say this because local health workers would work less conscientiously, but because there is simply or no one to work in many places, or the infrastructure cannot be compared in the more difficult areas of the country, either with Győr or, say, with the Buda. I therefore think that there is a need to talk about the possible harm to the right to health and that this problem must be addressed. Just as it is important to address the fact that during a pandemic, the Hungarian press was almost hermetic, and so far it is actually excluded from health institutions, they cannot take pictures there. It can also be read in the report that both the NAIH and the Commissioner have indicated this to the government. I do not need to justify too much the high public interest that Hungarian society has in order to have a clear and clear picture of the conditions in hospitals, what one can expect if it needs some kind of care as a result of a viral disease. According to his report, the State Secretary for Health only partially accepted his position, but at least briefings were prepared on where and how to take pictures. I fear that this issue has not been resolved by 2021 either, at least there is no deeper information on this. If we remember, we can't think of a lot of news, a report that was made by an independent media representative, not by public media in the Covid class of a Hungarian hospital. Here I would like to mention the right to clean air, which several of my fellow Members have raised with all due respect. I also emphasize this because I have been dealing with this issue for years as a representative in the valley of Sajó, as a representative of Miskolc. The right to clean air, if it is very important somewhere, obviously affects several areas of the country, but particularly the valley of Sajó; when we hear about air pollution, we hear about PM10 pollution and other pollutants, we hear the names of Sajó Valley settlements, Putnoke, Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter and Miskolc many times. There, specifically, wheat space and its surroundings produce the worst data. Air pollution reduces the lives of around 13,000 people in Hungary every year. On average, it shortens their lives by ten years. That's what experts say, so scientific research data proves it. I think that there may be an intention to resolve this issue, but it needs to be resolved with much more force and much more force than Parliament and responsible decision-makers have done in recent years. I can say this, Commissioner, that my life and my blood are on this issue; I have made a proposal for a decision myself, consulted experts in the region, and the University of Miskolc has an innovative development that may be important in this matter. I have to say that when 81 percent of the experts now say this, the public fire is responsible for the fact that the air is in this condition, it is really important to think about the social context of this issue. And it affects everyone in the area, so I think I'm putting hundreds of thousands of people's problems on the table when I talk about it. It would also be interesting to compare Covid infection data and serious infections with this question, because I claim that the health condition of the population is fundamentally affected by this situation in our region, especially in the valley of Sajó. So what I can offer you is that we should, together, put pressure on the main decision-makers on this issue in the coming years. As well as the right to healthy drinking water, I think that the right habitat in such a climate change, where there is an adequate quality of life, will be appreciated in an extraordinary way. What form and how people will do work in the era of roboticisation, how much more and more this will take place online, could be a long discussion on these, but this is not the time, but it is certainly the time to make Hungary healthier as a habitat. You can count on me for that. The other area I would like to highlight is children's rights. Here, we welcome the Commissioner's priority on this issue. The report also shows that the staff of the office also examined the children's homes. As we said in last year's debate, there is a need for serious action in this area, and it is enough to think about the upcoming general parliamentary elections, especially the campaign period. Unfortunately, the MSZP has lived in vain with countless submissions, and the courts have fixed it in vain with principle that the campaign asks children not to use it as a biodecoration or as a campaign tool. I very much hope that in a year's time, in the debate on the upcoming report, there will be no need to mention specifically what infringements occurred in spring 2022, but that this issue must be clearly pointed out. It is also worth mentioning that the government does not seem to accept every Commissioner's proposal with enthusiasm. We can see this in the constitutional examination of the conditions for applying for a baby shower loan, which concerned the applicant's upper age. But that's what we're seeing in the case of mandatory car liability insurance. The latter, the Minister for Finance, in particular, rejected the amendments made by the Commissioner and his office. It is no coincidence that the Commissioner is also expressing his dissatisfaction in his report, and I would like to quote: "The Commissioner also invites the ministers responsible for preparing legislation in this report to pay more attention in the future to the fulfilment of the substantive response obligation and to the practical implementation of the accepted Ombudsman's proposals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Last but not least, we need to highlight the significant change in the organisation system of fundamental rights protection in Hungary in 2020. Here, several of my fellow Members may recall that we have also had serious debates in the Justice Committee on the fact that the Equal Treatment Authority has been brought to the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. In November 2020, the Government-led Judicial Committee presented the bill that made all this possible. It was not clear to us then, nor since then, why this was done, because the Equal Treatment Authority was basically doing its job well, efficiently and in recognition. As the golden rule says, what works well, don't change that. Therefore, it is not very clear why this was necessary. Although the independence of the authority has only ceased at the end of 2020, therefore we cannot read much about the consequences of the change in this report yet, but it would be good to get answers to what was the reason for the change, and in particular what is expected in the future in this area. Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. And I would like to say to the Commissioner and his colleagues that I thank you for your work. You can see that I would particularly like to highlight the fight against air pollution in one area, and I myself am a priority. I hope that we can work together to finally bring about fundamental changes in this respect. I wish you once again good luck and a lot of strength for your work. I very much hope that you will be able to accept most of my comments in practice. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-08-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Bősz Anett. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-08-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I respectfully welcome the Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman, Vice-President, in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your work and for the report. I particularly welcome the fact that such an important role has been envisaged, at the level of deputy ombudsman, for future generations and for the right to clean air and clean water. This also plays an extremely important role here in the neighbouring countries, and I think that it is the 21st century. This is an exceptionally important topic for new generations born in the century, and it is also likely to be a challenge in life, which we must prepare for in advance. [[12.30]] I believe that this is an extremely important and good role, and I am very pleased that the Commissioner has taken on this and that the office is also putting a workforce behind it. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, at a time of distress, the Commissioner took over this office, then we did not know what was waiting for us in the extraordinary legal order. I would like to highlight the right to health here and continue where my fellow Member László Varga has given up this subject, that unfortunately, the principle of fundamental dignity and equal treatment, simply the principles of social organisation and their implementation in this country, are not being successfully implemented. We see that we have many disadvantaged regions, our disadvantaged countrymen, who, at the moment, as my fellow Member has said, cannot live with their right to clean air or clean water at this moment, and it is true that it does not matter where, under what financial circumstances, and how they can preserve their health. Unfortunately, there are social groups that are already struggling with the problem of hunger in the fetal age and the problem of quality hunger. I would be very pleased if we, together with the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, could also fight together here in Parliament to minimise the number of these social groups, because at the moment, many people are facing such challenges. However, I would like to mention a point in health that the Commissioner might have expected a more decisive action, and that was the large number of emptyings of hospital beds. I know that we were faced with an extraordinary situation, but here many of our countrymen have struggled to evacuate, where appropriate, a hospital bed that should not have been evacuated at the time. I think that the Commissioner could have been more confident in confronting the regent government. At the same time, allow me to commend the step in which the parents' women expected and received a great deal from you. Unfortunately, we cannot continue to talk about the uniform obstetrics protocol due to the failure of the current power. I think that, for the future, if I can look at the Commissioner like this and make a request, there are fundamental issues of care and violations of rights that need to be addressed. However, the extraordinary legal order has resulted in many people going into childbirth without an escort, in masks, in protective equipment that significantly impeded their physical or legal mobility during childbirth or after childbirth. This social group, I think, breathed a little bit when Mr Ombudsperson formulated his position that the parent woman has the right to bring the father or an escort of her choice to the hospital, and she can stay with him in the case of obviously uncomplicated childbirth throughout the whole period of childbirth. I think it was a very important resolution, and I think it was not by accident accompanied by a lot of praise. To put some of the ideas in which I, or the Democratic Coalition, would have expected more from the office, it does not matter how quickly those involved in appeals receive some kind of justice. What do I mean? The investigation into the Mátra power plant was launched in 2019, it has already been sold and we still do not see the result, even though I remember the Commissioner promising a quick result. Similarly, on the issue of the segregation of Roma children in Gyöngyöspata in schools, the parties concerned addressed the Commissioner in the case of a government mood for compensation granted. Here in January 2020, the Commissioner also launched an investigation and the results promised in the near future, but I and my fellow Members have not yet met the results. I would like to thank you if you would consider this in your reply. I would also like to mention briefly the provision of homeless services, which this office is looking at very correctly, but what we see is that it is essentially done by asking the institutions involved in homelessness, and not by asking the people involved, which would give them a much more realistic picture of the fundamental differences in, for example, homeless services in Budapest and rural areas, that they feel that the damage to their dignity is being curbed as much as possible by the institutional system. Obviously, in such a social situation, it is very difficult for us to talk about the fact that someone can live without a violation, because he is basically in an unworthy position as a homeless person, but this would be extremely important in the future. In the same way, I would like to mention how important it was that children's rights were so focused in the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. It is also important that we pay attention and, at the same time, may I look at my only pro-government fellow Member who remains in this Chamber, and there are two who remain, how important it would be to strengthen the awareness of the law, to draft a resolution at ombudsman level. Then, I believe that the Commissioner could count on the opposition benches, that if we could begin the transformation process of our school system in which legal awareness becomes important in the life of future Hungarian adult citizens, in which children understand that they have rights and obligations, and in which they understand that their freedom is born and maintained at the cost of taking responsibility, and that if someone wants to debate it from them, they can speak. I would turn from here on the subject of the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority, because I can see that many members of the Equal Treatment Authority have turned to social groups who have this awareness, simply because they are a member of a minority who suffers legal violations even every day. I think that the decision that was taken in a hurry was quite simply a mistake, and it is obvious that it is suffering from a significant lack of labour after the merger, if we can talk about the authority. I, myself, imagine that if I imagined this authority, on the one hand, his former head had left, on the other hand, and his budget had fallen significantly, I think that it is difficult to maintain the former work of the Equal Treatment Authority, which, I repeat, has received a number of complaints and then finally found peace and justice for the whistle-blower, which is a common occurrence. I could mention that our fellow Roma countryman had applied for a job, where he was told on the phone that this job had already been filled, and then, of course, later it turned out that it was assumed by name that it was a fellow Roma countryman. After that, a non-Roma compatriot tried to investigate the Equal Treatment Authority, who was told that he would be pleased to receive her at a hearing and come in personally, as the job is still available. I believe that such situations were very important in the work of the Equal Treatment Authority. I am very confident, by the way, that, after the merger and the merger, we will be able to meet with such processes, and I would ask the Commissioner to respond to this suggestion, because I would be pleased if he could reassure us that not only our Roma countrymen, members of the LGBTQ community, have had numerous legal problems investigated here, and that the Equal Treatment Authority has made resolutions that could guide the future as well. I will give you an example: EBA made a decision against the University of Debrecen, because the Hungarian LGBT Association was banned from the university and wanted to organise a conference. So, I think these are the moments that should not happen in a European country. I am very confident, by the way, that, even after the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority, we can expect the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to act equally effectively against such violations of rights and dignity. [[12.40]] Once again, as a final point, I would like to point out that the protection of future generations is extremely important and must be supported; I really welcome the fact that, at such a high level, the Ombudsman and his colleagues have included this area in the work of the Office. But with regard to school security, I have to say that if children's rights and the protection of children's rights are so important, the institution of the school guard is, at the moment, an institution that cannot be improved by resolutions. I think that this institution is basically a bad institution. I would have liked it if the Commissioner had made such a resolution, even if he were arguing with the government; because we have made a number of positions based on my expert opinion from the opposition's benches, which showed that, in contrast to the institution of the school guard, other systems of care would have been other pedagogical services or psychological specialised services, social workers and social workers who could have helped the societies of troubled schools to cope with their existing challenges. I myself think that if we get used to the school security system, we get used to the fact that there's no legal awareness, there's punishment, there's a threat to uniforms. And these schools, and the citizens of these schools, do not learn that they are really citizens; they are already citizens, because they are school citizens, and then they have to become citizens, where they must exist, I say once again, the awareness of the law, the awareness of the duties, the responsibility for ourselves and the environment. I myself see the total opposite of that in the realization of the school guard's institution. I think that this is an extremely narrow-minded, short-term institution, or an institution that is apparently capable of dealing with current scandals. I hope that next year we can talk to Mr Ombudsman about how we can end this institution and what is its alternative, because I believe that, after a restoration of the rule of law, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights can reach much wider masses in this society, and there will be many more people who can now actually exercise their rights; their dignity and rights to equal treatment will not be violated. I trust that, and thank you again for your work, because I think the office is doing a great job, by the way. And I'll thank you for my criticisms, if you'll take my word for it. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-08-47	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I give the floor to German national representative Imre Ritter. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-48	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Parliament, I very much welcome the head of the ombudsman's office, his deputies, all his colleagues. Kresta Traján, our Romanian spokesperson, I think he has already summarized and said the opinion of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, and I do not want to quote any of this. I have applied to speak partly as a Member, although I would like to highlight three things on behalf of the committee on nationality, which I think is very important. One of the times before the establishment of the parliamentary representation of nationalities was one of the times when the Presidents of all 13 nationalities were in Parliament, and since then, obviously, this has always been a very sensitive point for us. I would just like to highlight this and thank the Ombudsman for giving Mrs Ombudsperson the maximum opportunity to work on her own, that she considered it important that, at the meeting of the nationality committee, where, obviously, as a minority committee, we discuss the report of the Deputy Ombudsman, who is responsible primarily for protecting the rights of national minorities, to be there personally, to inform us and to inform us, and that we often meet at ethnic events. We consider it extremely important for the deputy Ombudsman and the team serving him to be able to work independently, because if we were to live in a world where there was no need for an ombudsman's office! But I think that if you look at human nature and the world, you will always need it to protect nationalities. The other thing I would like to thank you for and I think it is extremely important, although you mentioned this in Traján, that I congratulate you, and I am very pleased that, in such a short time, significant steps have been taken and that we have been able to move forward effectively with the provision of physical and personal conditions and the level of respect for staff. I think this is extremely important because it is an area where tens of thousands of lawyers can be, but one is not compatible with the other. I think that the loss of a colleague who knows himself in a very complicated life of nationality, who is aware of special nationality legislation, who has proper practice in this area, and do not give up, is even dedicated in this area, is not compatible with a lawyer applying for employment in this area; he cannot do effective and truly effective work. It is therefore very important for us that the staff of the Office reflect significant stability and stability. The third thing I would like to emphasise is that we are already heading towards the end of our second term, from a budgetary point of view, at the end. I believe that in recent years there has been a very good coordination between the ombudsman's office and the committee of Hungarian nationalities, with which we can help each other work together and strengthen each other. It is very important for us to investigate specific matters, on the basis of which the general findings and proposals are either legal gaps or legislative amendments, on the basis of which we are able to initiate them and the professional assistance in their implementation and preparation that the Deputy Ombudsman responsible for the protection of the rights of nationalities and her colleagues can offer us. I will sum up, I did not have time before, but, among other things, in this spring period we have probably presented most of the legislative proposals of the last seven years in a wide variety of forms: as a separate amendment, as an amendment by its representatives, with the help of other committees, where appropriate, and almost everywhere, the assistance of the office and consultation with them have been extremely helpful. So, as a closing point, I would, of course, recommend to all of you the adoption of this report. I thank you for working together and I wish you good health so that we can continue to do this effective and good cooperation by strengthening each other. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-08-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, officer, your time frame is 30 minutes. It could be from its location, but it could be from here without further ado. There you go. You have the floor. [[12.50]]
u2021-06-08-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said. Allow me to express my thanks at the beginning; I would like to express my thanks for the fact that all the contributions that have been made remain professional, we are conducting a professional debate, we have continued a professional discussion, and I am honored to do so. I think that this cooperation, for which I asked the Honourable Parliament here last year, on this pulpit, and I feel that my words have found understanding, is a trust that we would like to live with in the future. Of course, we also feel the responsibility for this. However, I think that this is the way we should remain in the future. I thank all the Members for their contributions on the professional basis. Let me try to respond briefly to what has been said. The debates and contributions of the two committees discussing our report, the Justice Committee and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, can be assessed in a constructive manner. Thank you very much for President Vejkey's comment. Thank you for the voice of the minority advocate, Mr Kresta Traján, and I would like to thank President Ritter Imre for his positive contributions as chairman of the minority committee. I believe that we have had detailed and meaningful professional discussions in both committees, and I trust that this will continue to happen in the future. With regard to the speakers of the political groups, allow me to say a few points. I thank the Fidesz Group, Mr Károly Becsó, for his words recognising our professional work, and I think that we would like to continue working in this direction in the future. The Jobbik Group, Mr Gyüre: he gave a serious analysis of the legal history at the beginning of his speech, which I thank specifically, revealed the past and history of the ombudsman's institution, which was decisive to me, and I would like to add so much to the Member that this institution celebrated its 25th anniversary in Hungary last year. For 25 years now, the ombudsman-type institution has been in operation in Hungary for 26 years, and I think we are here to draw everyone's attention to this fact that Europe is today, and we can even say that one of the most powerful public fundamental rights protection institutions in the world has been established in Hungary. I think that we can all be proud of this, and, beyond the pride of all of us, the responsibility is on our shoulders, which we proudly take on, of course, but this is also part of the history of the law that Hungary has created in this respect a very serious state, fundamental rights protection institution. Thanks to last year's enlargements of powers before last year, a very wide-ranging institution of commissioners has now been established in Hungary. Mr Gyure also mentioned the possibility of maintaining our previous reports. Yes, the law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights gives us the opportunity to do so, if the contents of our reports cannot be understood in all respects, if the recipient does not accept our report, then we have the opportunity to continue to do so. We are also living with this every year, and in the reports where we feel that the report has not yet fully complied with what we have said, we will continue to do so in the future. This is what we have drawn attention to in our present report and to a number of cases. On behalf of the KDNP Group, Member Vejkey, thank you for your words of appreciation and support for our professional work. He highlighted the importance of personal contact and dialogue, and I fully agree with that. I trust last year's activity has backed this up. I too am a believer in personal contact and dialogue in all aspects, which is why I personally visited more than 80 institutions last year. That is why my colleagues and I have gone to more than 80 places to gain personal experience and to listen personally to the stakeholders regarding the implementation of their fundamental rights. On behalf of Mr László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP, I thank him for his words of appreciation for our professional work. He highlighted two important topics, perhaps one of the most important ones for me. One is the right to health and the measures that we will take and take in relation to it, which will continue to be taken in the future, and the right to clean air. I think that we fully agree with Mr President in this regard. I can tell him one thing, or I can tell him from here that he can count on us for both areas in the future. The right to health, as well as the right to clean air, to a healthy environment, can always count on us as a representative and Parliament as a whole. And thank you again for pointing out these two issues. He also spoke about the enforcement of children's rights. I can promise, of course, that this area will also be monitored continuously in the future. And your comment on the baby shower credit, which I mentioned at the beginning of my comment: we will continue to maintain our report, using the possibility provided by the law for us. The next speaker is Mrs Anett Bősz, on behalf of DK. First of all, I must thank him for his words of appreciation for our professional work. She also highlighted the protection of the right to health and the rights of the child. I think that we fully agree here, and I also consider both of these issues as a focus. The case of hospital bed evacuations and the woman representing the parents in the case of women indicated the recognition that the profession expressed in this respect. This is of course good for all of us, especially for my colleagues, and we will continue to do our best in the future. In the case of hospital bed evacuations, I can tell you that, given the current situation, we are obviously doing everything we can and we have done everything we can to express our necessary fundamental rights opinion. What we could do in this situation, we tried to do. I hope, therefore, that this will give recognition or recognition to most Hungarian citizens, and I hope that Mrs. Congresswoman will also agree or accept them in this respect. But obviously because of the complexity of the situation and its unprecedented experience, and as I have tried to put it in my expo, because of the lack of experience or the use of previous practice, these opinions on fundamental rights obviously take much more time than in a situation where perhaps the practice of the Constitutional Court or other previous experiences could be used on the issue. It's a speedy thing that Congresswoman mentioned, and she said two cases. I don't want to miss either one of them. One is the case of the Mátra Power Plant and the other is the question of the Pearl Pata. I can say at the Mátra Power Plant, and this was also mentioned in the Committee on Justice debate that it is not up to us that we have not yet been able to put an end to the procedure in this case. Obviously, the delay in the response period of those we seek is not a factor that we can influence. Believe what we know, what we have, what we have, we live with, we do that, that's how much we've done in this case, but we're trying to put an end to this matter as soon as possible. In the case of Gyöngyöspata, I can tell you that a follow-up investigation is currently being carried out under the leadership of Deputy Commissioner. [[13.00]] I am confident that this year, too, we will be able to put an end to this matter with a specific written report. He mentioned two other women and three others, but I would like to talk about the third one separately, which I would like to remember together: one is homelessness, and the other has spoken from my heart about strengthening citizens' awareness of their rights. Obviously, we will, and thank you for your suggestions. I think that strengthening the awareness of law in citizens is a very important issue for us in the future, so we will certainly think about it. It is no secret that we have thought of this issue before, but we will also try to take some concrete steps in this regard. We will take into account your professional proposals on homelessness or homelessness care. By the way, every year we issue a homeless crisis report. Obviously, the congresswoman has read this, and it was no different last year, but this proposal she made will be examined. And I told you, there's another third subject I'd like to discuss separately. In short, allow a response to your comments on the Equal Treatment Authority. Since this topic extends to 2021, since, in fact, the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was established on 1 January 2021, allow me to respond only in a few sentences to what he said. First of all, I have to say, and to reassure everyone, I would also like to say that one: budget support for equal treatment has not been reduced by a penny; no penny has been spent on this area. So this is true, and there is no shortage of staff to deal with cases of equal treatment. The administration of administrative matters relating to equal treatment is currently taking place at the highest professional level, by the way, using the professional knowledge of a large part of the staff of the Equal Treatment Authority. I've signed a lot of, a lot of cases over the last few months, and we've made a lot of official decisions. I think, Congresswoman, that in this respect I must reassure you that there is no cause for concern, that all matters relating to equal treatment relating to protected properties are kept and dealt with; there is no slippage; deadlines are respected. And you can count on me to continue to carry out this task under strict supervision and strict conditions, within the framework of the law; and we do not have any budgetary problems in this respect. So I would obviously like to mention this in detail next year, in my report on 2021, but I thought it was important to say this, because here and sometimes there are news in the press. I must reassure everyone that there is no problem in this area, neither in terms of budget nor in terms of human resources. And the guarantee of professional work is none other than me. I trust that the status of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in public law is enough to guarantee everyone that these decisions will continue to be made on an appropriate professional level and using our independence in the future, so that they can also appeal to us in matters of equal treatment. We'll make the right official decisions in time. And finally, as a Member, Mr Ritter, not only as chairman of the committee, said words of professional appreciation, which I would like to thank you for once again. I believe that we are in a very fruitful, good cooperation with Mr President and with the Committee on Nationalities, and I especially thank you for the professional attitude that we have experienced in recent years to support the work of Vice-President. That is what we expect in the future, and I ask you to continue to judge our work with this professionalism. In summary, I would like to thank you once again for the series of professional contributions that we have heard here today. I believe that this is the way we should stay, and I trust that all honourable Members and gentlemen will continue to approach our work from this perspective. They can count on me in the future; we will carry out our work with similar professionalism and attitude, and I can make a promise on behalf of all the staff of the Office. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you again for this opportunity, and again, as a closing point, I would like to ask you to accept our report for the year 2020. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2021-06-08-51	Thank you very much, officer. I am now asking Mr Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-52	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for your speech. Apart from political statements, I can say that all speakers supported the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020 and supported the proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Judicial Committee. I wish Mr. Ombudsman and his deputies further good health and good luck in their work. And to conclude, I would like to ask the Ombudsman to say that he wants to strengthen the awareness of the law: I ask the Ombudsman that strengthening the awareness of the law should also mean strengthening the awareness of the obligation, since the rights cannot be separated from the obligation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-08-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I would now like to thank Commissioner Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his colleagues for their appearance and participation in the debate. We move on to the next item on the agenda. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Following a series of reports on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2020 and on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, until its closure. I also welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the SAO and Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the SAO, as well as all the staff who have arrived with them and are active in the SAO. Ladies and gentlemen, Report submitted by the State Audit Office B/15275. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/16286. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report, who will present his report here on the platform. Mr President, The time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-54	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Listener, These are the keywords for flexible response, digitalisation, dynamic impact growth, advice and knowledge sharing that marked the Court of Auditors in 2020. We took advantage of the difficulties. During the epidemic, the State Audit Office has developed public finances this is our Twitter message from last year. Dear Parliament, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the President of the State Audit Office shall give the National Assembly every year information on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, and shall present the institution's operation and management in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. [[13.10]] In accordance with this legal requirement, on 30 April 2021 we submitted to Parliament our information on the activities and operation of the State Audit Office in 2020, which presents comprehensively the results, experiences and conclusions of last year. I trust that you have had the opportunity to learn about our prospectus in both printed form and now, using the achievements of digitalization, it is easy to rotate electronically. This time, too, we have sought to present our last year in a transparent and understandable way, in line with your needs. This is extremely important for us, because the most important task of the State Audit Office is to support the work of Parliament, including parliamentary committees, by contributing to the legislation, the well-managed state. Thank you, too, for our partners, even at this extraordinary time. In order to make use of our prospectus, we have organised our professional experience around a number of focussed practices in previous years: monitoring national wealth management and financial management; monitoring experience regarding compliance with the accounting system of public finances; performance audits; our activities for improving and consolidating integrity; and our conclusions assessing budgetary and macroeconomic processes; we have grouped them around these areas. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The year 2020 has proven that there will also be events that are unexpected and that we are trying, but we cannot fully prepare for them. We looked forward to last year, as it was also a special year for the State Audit Office because of the historical aspect of 2020. Last year it was 150 years ago that the first independent Hungarian State Audit Office started operating in 1870 and 30 years ago, the independent audit of the Court of Auditors was resumed in Hungary on 1 January 1990. The Covid-19 pandemic pushed memory into the background and directed our attention, instead of the past, to the present and the challenges of the future. I could say that we celebrated our dual Jubilee year by increasing the coverage of the Court's activities and passing it on, sharing our knowledge and experience widely, thereby achieving a dynamic impact. By preserving this, we have created value for the past, as we have actively contributed to the development of public finances during the pandemic and supported the well-managed state. The main constitutional mission of the State Court of Auditors is to support the principles and standards of compassing laid down in the public financial chapter of the Fundamental Law, such as legality, transparency, expediency, effectiveness, practical application and development of the principle of the purity of public life. It follows from all this that the State Audit Office is a guaranteeing organisation defined in the Fundamental Law, whose aim is not to find faults or condemn them, but to steer them in the right direction, to start and maintain positive changes. On this basis, the State Audit Office is an organisation which operates in accordance with the standards and values declared by the Fundamental Law and is responsible for the economic sovereignty of Hungary. Dear Parliament, Our aim is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective with our extensive knowledge-sharing, supportive self-tests, analyses, studies, opinions and proposals, and to contribute to the efficient functioning of public service institutions and systems. This strategic objective is based on objective verification findings based on documents and facts, which are always evidence-based. I would like to stress this very much because the State Audit Office is an audit organisation of the type of office which does not have investigative tools or authority powers. In all cases, the legal consequences of each audit finding are determined by the relevant legal provisions, but their enforcement is the responsibility of the authorities with procedural powers in the case in question. The legal environment of the audit of the State Audit Office was also examined by the Constitutional Court. In the course of a substantive procedure, the tes-ment pointed out that the current State Audit Office of Hungary operates as an office-type institution without authority. The SAO does not have the power to impose sanctions, its report cannot be regarded as a decision adopted by public authority or as a judicial decision. The Constitutional Court confirmed the constitutional status of the State Audit Office since 1990, i.e. more than 30 years ago. The SAO is therefore not punishing or punishing, but we also have a legal instrument that, according to our experience, is able to promote compliance. This is the so-called conservation measure, which is in practice an initiative to temporarily suspend budget support for a given organisation; this is the Court of Auditors' effective and rapid role as a guaranteeor over public funds. The measure provided by law ensures the preservation of public property and the taking of the necessary measures in order to ensure that no further damage is caused and caused from the detection of the specific conduct until it has been eliminated by the inspector. In 2020, the Court of Auditors envisaged 126 cases of asset conservation measures, but only 22 cases required the actual suspension of the payment of budget support, mostly through the implementation of the Hungarian Treasury. Where, as a result of the conduct of the audit brought about by the measure, the situation underlying the imposition of the measure has ceased to exist, the Court of Auditors has immediately initiated the termination of the measure with the enforcement authority. It is important that each organisation concerned can subsequently obtain the suspended budget support, i.e. it is not subject to material damage. The objective of the asset conservation measure is always to eliminate the identified irregularity or the risk of injury as soon as possible and thus to protect taxpayers' money. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Audit Office also carried out its statutory tasks in fundamentally changed circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic and placed great emphasis on its knowledge-sharing and advisory activities. Thanks to the technological, digitization and methodological developments in recent years, we have been able to increase effectively the number of people affected by control in a way that is typically devoid of personal encounters. This means that in 2020, the Court of Auditors has managed to promote the public financial situation by addressing irregularities and shortcomings identified by a large number of audit-based evaluations, findings and proposals of a total of 1534 organisations. On the basis of our findings, 1030 proposals have been made, and in 434 cases we have sent a notice letter, decided on the adequacy of 471 action plans, and 14 follow-up checks have been carried out, involving 84 organisations. [[13.20]] As a result of the developments in recent years, we have achieved a very dynamic impact increase, and the number of audited organisations is expected to reach 9,000 units in 2021. The Court's impact is well illustrated by the systemic measure taken by municipalities at the end of January 2021. It was launched in 2020 and started to monitor this, which involved all 3197 local authorities in Hungary and 1284 offices carrying out their management tasks, with a monitoring evaluation of their integrity, i.e. their protection against corruption, during this period. The system-wide assessment for 2020, i.e. supporting current-time operations, was also extremely topical because compliance and ordering is particularly important during the Covid-19 pandemic. International organisations such as the United Nations and the OECD, inter alia, and the SAO's assessment, present a major risk of corruption or of a breach of the rule of the pandemic. This means that the assessment of the SAO provided support to local government leaders to comply with the rules when they needed it most. However, in recent years, we have received almost every year comments from you in Parliament's debates and committee meetings on our annual information on the fact that the SAO is monitoring local governments in a larger number and more widely. Hearing these requests, we launched and implemented technological and methodological developments that enabled the Court of Auditors to carry out an evaluation of up to thousands of organisations in the framework of the audit at the same time. I can safely say that we have met a challenge of more than three decades. I am pleased to announce to the Parliament that we have carried out the simultaneous evaluation of all municipal and municipal offices. We have checked the regulations and documents underlying the day-to-day operation, which ensure, inter alia, that municipalities operate in a regular, accountable and fraud-free manner. In some 820 settlements, we found basically order; in more than 1050 settlements, mayors and notaries have already taken measures during the inspection to address the deficiencies; in the remaining 1330 municipalities, we have pointed out areas where they can move forward and we have found openness and full cooperation everywhere, with minimal exceptions. The latter is also a serious achievement, as it shows that in most places we are now considered not only as inspectors, but also as partners in supporting their legitimate operation. In the interests of clarity, on the basis of data reporting, evaluation of requested documents and evaluation of the measures taken to raise our awareness, the Court classified the individual municipalities on a scale between 1 and 5, where grade 1 was the highest and grade 5 was the lowest risk of corruption. Overall, I find it reassuring that the state of integrity of the Hungarian authorities and their offices has reached an average rating of 4.3 at national level. In addition, we have identified 202 municipalities whose integrity will be supported by new, detailed monitoring in the near future. I would also like to emphasise this time that our aim is not to condemn, but to promote development. This is in the fundamental interest of both local government leaders and residents. Our supporting toolbox is available to stakeholders. Last week, in order to benefit from our audit experience, we launched several weeks of online training programmes for notaries leading local government offices, to which some 800 notaries joined. I can safely say that we have a greater impact on the functioning and management of the municipalities than ever before. Our goal is to ensure that success, development, is a measure and value that everyone can see. If you allow me some personal thoughts, I was most pleased with two things: the way in which the excellent ones did not without all pride report their results to the public, including to the other municipalities, and the great openness that those not yet at the highest level showed to improve. The intention of repair has won everywhere. In accordance with our statutory tasks and in partnership with the leaders of the settlements, we will continue to work to ensure that local authorities operate properly and effectively and that local residents receive the highest possible level of services. I have presented all of this to you because we also considered the systematic evaluation of the municipalities as a kind of pilot programme. Our plans are to extend our system-wide monitoring assessments linked with advice to new areas. We have already started these assessments with the central budgetary bodies and with the state- and municipal-owned companies. Dear House, The State Audit Office's contribution to a well-managed state is achieved through a number of tasks and activities. The audit activity and the related measures will all improve and stimulate the more responsible, orderly and transparent management of the audited. The audit experience will be used at several levels: on the one hand, they aim to strengthen public financial protection lines and, on the other hand, to highlight risks and to provide support in mapping areas that still need improvement. With the help of the new control focus areas, we can control more institutions, thus increasing the control coverage of public money and public wealth use, thus giving society a more complete picture, and the analyses contribute to the foundation of controls, and to the initiative of legislative changes, and also to our advisory activities. To this end, the SAO's experts carried out a total of 30 analyses in 2020. They have developed important topics such as fiscal sustainability, whitening of the Hungarian economy, taxation issues of digital commerce, sovereign debt management or financial security of the Hungarian population. In addition, the Court's analysts focus on presenting the economic and social impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic as early as last year and ever since, and seek to explore areas that contribute to Hungary's rapid recovery from the crisis caused by the pandemic. In parallel with the increase in the role of analyses in the organisation's activities, we are no longer just a financial and economic control body, a public financial guarantee to the Parliament, but also a kind of background support for legislative work, supporting Parliament and the work of the Members of Parliament themselves, which is one of our most important tasks. In 2020 we produced and provided 15 professional background materials for various legislative proposals, in 6 cases we initiated legislative amendments and made 3 recommendations to various legislative proposals. Similarly to previous years, the Court of Auditors has raised proposals for Parliament in its 2020 prospectus to further develop responsible public financial management. Based on last year's experience, the Court has made 5 new proposals on the regulation of inventory management, the legal guarantees of accounting discipline, state management, performance-based public spending and the regulation of the ethical environment. These suggestions, as well as the audit findings and analytical conclusions underlying them, can be found in our prospectus. Dear House, As I have already pointed out, in 2020, the Court's extensive audit and advisory activities focused on five focus areas. The focus areas were defined on the basis of previous years' experience and the statutory obligations imposed on the SAO, taking into account current public financial risks. [[13.30]] The first priority area is the control of national wealth management and financial management. Hungary's Fundamental Law sets out the public interest service, meeting common needs and safeguarding natural resources and taking into account the needs of future generations as the objective of managing and protecting national wealth. The Fundamental Law also states that each farmer is obliged to treat national assets and public funds in accordance with the principles of transparency and purity of public life and to account for the public's management of public funds. The basic objective of managing national assets and public money is therefore to carry out public tasks. In doing so, transparent and accountable management of public wealth and public funds is a fundamental social requirement. Taking these into account, the Court's activities continued to focus on national wealth management and control of financial management in 2020. The second priority area of focus is the presentation of audit experience on compliance with the accounting system of public finances. Hungary's Fundamental Law lays down the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable fiscal management, and requires public finance entities to be accountable to the public. In order to be transparent and accountable for the activities of a public body, it is necessary to have accounting arrangements, respect and enforcement of the rules laid down. In compliance with its statutory obligation, the Court also assessed compliance with the accounting rules of public finances in 2020. Our third focus area in 2020 was performance controls. The legal framework for the performance control of public and public wealth treatment is regulated at legal level. At the same time as the adoption of the Court of Auditors' report on its activities in 2019, Parliament, at least the majority of it, confirmed by setting out its decision to support all the activities of the Court of Auditors that strengthen responsible management based on performance and measurement in the public sector. With its performance audits, the Court plays a key role in the development, dissemination and development of performance culture, performance-based quality management, framework and conditionality. We place great emphasis on ensuring that the principles of expediency and effectiveness set out in the Fundamental Law are applied at all levels of public finance management. Out of 217 reports published by the Court of Auditors in 2020, 53 reports set out evaluations of the performance of the organisations audited by it. Our fourth focus area is the development and consolidation of integrity thinking to protect against corruption threats. The emergency caused by the epidemic posed increased corruption risks, so last year the Court of Auditors had a greater impact on the integrity of the Hungarian public sector and on the development of systems to prevent corruption. In this context, the Court of Auditors highlighted the monitoring-based assessment of integrity controls as early as 2020 and the assessment and evaluation of integrity controls ensuring the protection of the Hungarian public sector against corruption. One of the specific areas for preventing corruption is the enforcement and evaluation of legislation on the management of political parties and campaign financing. The Court of Auditors shall carry out legal checks on the management of all parties receiving budgetary support in full compliance with the relevant legal requirements. I am here to indicate that in 2021 we are expected to report on the management of all parties receiving budgetary support within the legal framework. The State Audit Office also started to monitor 180 registered parties who did not receive regular budget support in 2020. Since, in the event of compliance with the relevant requirements and conditions, these parties may also set up a national list or candidates, it is essential that the legality of their operation and their management is ensured. After all, by the time the pre-election period comes, every party registered in Hungary will be known to fulfil the basic legal conditions necessary to receive public money for their operation. Finally, the fifth major focus area is the conclusions of the analyses assessing budgetary and macroeconomic processes, focusing on the economic impact of the Covid-19 epidemic. In 2020, the Court of Auditors carried out 18 out of 30 analyses of budgetary processes and of one area of the macro-economic economy. Their primary objective was to assist the Budget Council with its analyses in accordance with the SAO's legal obligation. Some of the analyses provided a professional background to the specific decisions of the Fiscal Council, while the SAO's work on assessing budgetary and macroeconomic processes also contributed to the visibility and transparency of budgetary processes in 2020. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am convinced that the results of the year 2020 and its development orientations also confirm that the Court of Auditors continued to perform its tasks of controlling public funds and public assets in the legislative environment confirmed by the Parliament in 2011. The organisational transformations and control-methodological developments have all contributed to a consultative approach to the development of public finance users' practices and to the implementation of the 21st EDF's 21st State Audit Office's operational processes, one and a half centuries after its establishment and three decades after its re-launch. One of the challenges of the century, especially digitalization, was the demand. Finally, I would like to point out that the State Audit Office has renewed its institutional strategy already presented to you in 2011. The opportunities offered by the 2020s made it necessary to prepare and present a new strategy for the National Assembly. The new strategy, which is included in the 2020 information appendix, maintains the core values and standards set out in the previous strategy and sets out the direction for further progress. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for using our audit findings, our experiences, our analyses and our information in their work, and in many cases by means of a letter, they have called attention to certain phenomena, discussed our recommendations to the legislative proposals, and thus contributed to the utilisation and effectiveness of the Parliament's financial and economic audit body, the Court of Auditors' work! And in closing my expo, I thank, of course, the staff of the State Audit Office, my colleagues, for their professionally high quality, value-creating work. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now give the floor to my fellow Members, Mr Sándor Hadházy, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, the rapporteur of the motion for a resolution. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting held on 17 May 2021, the Parliament's Economic Committee heard information from the Vice-President of the State Audit Office, Magdolna Holman, and discussed the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2020 and the operation of the institution. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2020 and on the adoption of a report on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly H/16286. He submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, which was adopted by the committee by 10 votes in favour, against 4 votes against and decided on the submission. [[13.40]] Dear House, As Mr President pointed out, last year was a challenging year for all of us. The State Audit Office was also faced with new challenges in a changed environment due to the Crown Virus pandemic. It was comforting to hear Mr President's speech informing the Parliament that the Court of Auditors had fully performed its statutory tasks in the changed environment. In its statutory function, the Court monitors the implementation of the central budget, the management of public finances, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. In addition, the mission undertaken by the State Court of Auditors in its strategy is to promote transparency, order and contribute to a well-managed state, including the appropriateness, legality and integrity of its use by means of sound professional value-making audits. This highlights that the main constitutional mission of the State Court of Auditors is to support the practical implementation and development of the principle of the purity of public life in the public financial system of the compass requirements laid down in the public financial chapter of the Fundamental Law, such as legality, transparency, practicality, effectiveness. The aim of the State Audit Office is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective, in addition to and apart from audits, through its wide range of educational activities, analyses, studies, opinions and proposals, and to contribute to the efficient functioning of public service institutions and systems for the public good. Dear Parliament, I think that the type of analytical and advisory activity that the State Audit Office of Hungary carried out in 2020 to support the audited and our legislative work has helped the country to preserve economic stability during the most difficult months of the pandemic. By giving priority to the role of analyses, the State Audit Office is no longer just a financial and economic audit body, a public financial guarantee to Parliament, but, as Mr President said, it also provides a kind of professional and analytical background support for our legislative work. In particular, the Court's experts focus on presenting the economic and social impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and seek to explore areas that can contribute to Hungary's rapid recovery from the crisis caused by the pandemic. In 2020, the State Audit Office achieved a larger number of more than 1500 bodies with its audits, and the entire municipal system received guidance to strengthen integrity controls. I am convinced that these results would not have been available without digital development. For all public institutions, the flexible response the State Court of Auditors reflected on the changing circumstances of the pandemic can serve as an example. The complete organizational and methodological renewal and the digitalisation of the working environment have been particularly appreciated in the new situation created by the Covid epidemic, not only because, in addition to the lower burden on the audited, they have achieved more organisations with their controls, but also because they have managed to follow up on the changed work environment needs as a result of the improvements. I believe that all public institutions should respond in the same way so that they can meet the challenges of the age and the expectations of unexpected situations, while keeping the record of their professional achievements intact. Dear Parliament, The analyses, studies, information materials and suggestions that Mr President has reported are indeed the basis for the audit of the State Audit Office to be seen not only as an auditor but as a partner in support of legal operation. This is particularly important in the current situation. I look forward to the fact that the system-wide monitoring assessment of local authorities, which has been consulted and defined as a pilot programme, will be used by the Court of Auditors in other sectors in the near future, as the results clearly show that the overall system of controls and support has indeed had a greater impact on the functioning and management of the municipal system than ever before. It is an important message defining the social perception of the Court's work that the aim of the organisation is not to condemn, but to promote development, which is also highlighted by Mr President in his expozee. The Court's support toolkit includes not only analyses, studies, proposals, but also a self-test system highlighted, continuously developed and updated in the prospectus, as well as regular management training. For example, the online training programme that has just been launched for notaries at the head of municipal offices. In addition, the completion of self-tests provides an opportunity for an even wider layer of potential controlled ones to improve and improve the regularity of their operation in their respective competences. I would like to highlight the monitoring of parties and campaign funds, in which the State Audit Office has made outstanding progress over recent years. Due to the upcoming parliamentary election, it is of particular relevance and importance that, in addition to the legal requirements, 180 registered parties have also started to be checked which do not receive regular budget support. Since these parties can also make candidates, lists, it is a fundamental expectation that by the time the pre-election period is reached, all parties registered in Hungary will be aware of the basic conditions that are necessary for them to receive public money. In doing so, the State Audit Office provides important guarantees and transparency for all taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account the report on the operation of the year 2020, it is clear that the State Audit Office will continue to carry out its task properly, support and assist the work of the Parliament, and prepare publications and organise conferences that support the strengthening of the functioning of the good state. Reading the information provided by the State Audit Office for the year 2020 and listening to Mr President's exposé, I think it is clear that the objective of the State Audit Office's operational processes is to have a real advisory approach aimed at improving the practice of public money users. Perhaps last year's greatest achievement is that with so many analyses, self-tests, training and knowledge sharing, they have contributed to the regular, more efficient, economical and effective operation of the audited. I would like to thank this House for its adoption of the information and accounts of the State Audit Office. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-06-08-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to participate in the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Committee. Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2021-06-08-58	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, for his detailed report, which he also sent to the members of the committee, and his vice-president supplemented it orally at the committee meeting, and here Mr President gave us a summary of the most important comments. It is remarkable that the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament was able to perform its constitutional task in the last year, which was challenging. Let's face it, this has been a real challenge that the organisation has fulfilled in a flawless manner, and I would like to congratulate the President and all his colleagues on this. Moreover, as we have heard from Mr President, he has also succeeded in implementing a number of improvements and efficiency improvements in the State Court of Auditors, which was founded a century and a half ago and has been re-launched for more than three decades in the course of last year. I find it particularly effective that we received this year's report on the operation of the State Audit Office in a new format, much more transparently and in a much more traceable way, which obviously gave my fellow Members the opportunity to be more transparent. I would therefore like to thank you particularly for this, as it was an innovation by the management of the Court of Auditors. I think, Mr President, this is the right direction; if you continue to represent it, it will make the report much more useful and much easier to interpret for all our fellow Members. It is important to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, the good and otherwise correct decision that has already marked the operation of last year, that the auditors seek to consult as many cases as possible, helping municipalities and controlled organisations to do their accounts correctly. This will not only affect the direction in which to identify as many errors as possible and, where appropriate, condemn farmers and organisations, but also help them to function legally. I also consider it very important for the strategy for the next period to strengthen this kind of approach if the State Audit Office will obviously have human resources capacity and IT backs. Dear House, It is essential to stress that the starting point of the activities of the State Audit Office is the provisions of our Fundamental Law, so the SAO's fundamental task is to monitor compliance with the laws and laws established by Parliament. I believe it is important that citizens of the State Court of Auditors are kept informed about the use of the tax forints they pay, a crucial condition for the stability and effective functioning of democratic arrangements. Following the reports of the State Audit Office, the audited organisations take action, give the SAO recommendations and advice a chance to change their management and operation in a positive direction. In my view, the fact that the State Audit Office has organised its findings around a number of focal points in its prospectus makes it particularly transparent and facilitates its use. The development of national wealth and financial management, the accounting system of public finances, performance audits, integrity perceptions to protect against corruption threats, and budgetary and macroeconomic processes are all areas where the advisory role of the State Audit Office is particularly assessed. The basic objective of managing national wealth and public money is to carry out public tasks, and therefore it is rightly linked to the social expectation that this management must be transparent and accountable. For this reason, I consider it a professionally sound decision that the Court of Auditors' activities included national wealth management and control of financial management as a priority area in 2020. Indeed, the existence and compliance with the accounting system is essential in order to ensure the transparency of the activities of a public entity and to ensure that it is managed properly, operated and provided with a smooth task. It is certainly commendable that the Court of Auditors, through its performance audits, plays a key role in the dissemination of performance culture, performance-based management, the development of its frameworks and conditionality. I also believe that the State Audit Office has been making significant progress in improving and consolidating integrity for years, and that its analyses of budgetary and macroeconomic processes help not only the work of the Fiscal Council but also make a significant contribution to the transparency of budgetary processes. I consider it a significant achievement that, thanks to the audit activity of the State Audit Office, which started in the middle of last year, by January this year, as the President pointed out in his report, he was able to assess the integrity of all Hungarian municipalities and offices. As far as I know, such a simultaneous assessment has not been the case in the previous period. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In view of the feedback, I really believe that the Court of Auditors has managed to have a greater impact on the functioning and management of the municipalities than ever before. As I mentioned in the introduction, especially in such a difficult situation as that caused by the pandemic, this is a special and outstanding achievement, Mr President, so I congratulate you and your colleagues on this outstanding achievement. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to highlight the speed with which the State Audit Office reacted to the recovery of the Covid-19 pandemic that affected all of our lives last year, because in many of its analyses last year, the analysts of the State Audit Office focused on the economic and social impact of the epidemic, thus not only acting as a financial and economic control body of the Parliament, but also provided significant background support for our legislative work. The information provided by the State Audit Office demonstrates that the organisation fulfilled its statutory obligations and shared its audit experience widely in 2020, carried out intensive advisory and information activities, contributed to an increase in financial awareness, implemented high levels of digitalisation improvements, and monitored its own performance on the basis of the principles of change management. In my opinion, therefore, the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to perform its audit tasks effectively in 2020, effectively supporting the functioning of the Parliament and the committees, as well as fulfilling its information and approach-forming tasks. The report before you shows precisely and in sufficient detail the Court's activities last year, which can be seen as clearly effective. For this reason, the Fidesz fraction, together with the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, supports the adoption of this report, and I would like to reiterate our special thanks to all the staff of the Court of Auditors for their outstanding performance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-08-59	Thank you very much, Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2021-06-08-60	Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, as chairman of another committee, to look at the processes behind this report from a slightly different perspective. As Chairman of the Committee on Enterprise Development, on the one hand, as successor to the former Labour Committee, I must examine this issue a little in terms of the protection of the interests of Hungarian workers and the daily problems, but since it is part of the 21st edition of the 21st century. We live in the 20th century, so we also need to bring an entrepreneurial, small business perspective into the system's investigation. Although this will be surprising for an opposition representative, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks, especially to the pro-government fellow Members, because last year, before last year, we had a debate about victory reports and speeches, where, in essence, the performance of the pro-government representatives consisted of praise for their own economic performance and, often, the praise of those who did not go out of the bubble of opinion. There was obviously a debate about this, and we tried to deny the allegations that the Hungarian national economy would have taken some form of intergalactic course. Now, my fellow Members have been much more restrained, and I thank you for that, and this could already be the basis for a professional debate by exploring existing problems and analysing the extremely difficult situation of the Hungarian national economy. We see that when we read the Court's report, in recent years we have received an increasingly informative analysis, with images and images, covering more and more processes. [[14.00]] Moreover, there has been a leap in the number of inspections in recent years, and it seems that the work intensity has not been reduced since then. We, the Jobbikians, socialized at the Nikos László School, always talk to the teacher before a similar debate, and we continue to see that the basic task here might be a little broadenable, and the portfolio may have a little too many alternative tasks at the Court of Auditors, but this would be a genre debate, which does not necessarily lead to anywhere. At the same time, the assessment of the position of the central budget is a neurological point that comes before us in every debate on the Court's report, and I attribute the more moderate pro-government voices to it and then disprove it, if not, that in the last year, and especially in the period concerned in 2020, it has come to light that this too early, possibly in May, budget planning for a next year is certainly not effective, and it certainly does not make predictable processes that fundamentally affect the achievement of the figures of a budget and the processes behind it. To give an example: the bulky movements in the euro exchange rate over the last one or two years have created a situation that the draft budget did not come into order, and the items connected to the euro exchange rate at any level had to be redesigned in order. And it has caused terrible problems in certain areas. At the same time, we see that the treatment of the coronal virus epidemic is quite different. This, of course, also comes from the political side, and often the meeting point has an influence on the position, but there are objective measures to this. I find it a bit embarrassing that the Court of Auditors, in the emergency situation caused by the corona virus epidemic, did not highlight the clear, trivial flaws in dealing with the economic crisis, or did not highlight it in the same degree as I would have liked it to have. For example, the amount of compensation for lost wages that can be classified as small change at a microscopic, European level is quite certain to poke the eye from afar. In Hungary, measurable additions were achieved for up to 5 percent of all jobs and jobs. Obviously, we on the opposition side, from the third day onwards, wanted 80 percent of lost wages to be replaced in every case and replaced by everyone who has already lost their jobs. On the other hand, the Hungarian figure is 5 percent, compared to 15-20-25 percent of Austria, Germany. So there is a gap between the intervention rate of the countries there and the government here. Obviously, there are different options and background factors. However, we could have expected the country to implement a much more measurable, bolder wage replacement programme. Excuse the expression was a category of Hashtag pity when the wage replacement announced at the end of November, the replacement of lost wages, had not yet arrived at certain entrepreneurs in February. During a very difficult period, this was an attempt to intervene very, very bumpy, which took a lot of jobs. This is where we can move on to highlighting the loss of many jobs during the coronal virus threat situation. That's a good point, because it did happen. We have also seen them stressing that the government has allocated a significant amount of money to support investments that create new, modern jobs. We have to stop here for a second. As an absolute pro-market economist, I believe that preserving existing jobs would have been a much cheaper way than supporting the creation of new jobs without necks. I'm not saying you don't have the right to support investments, but I'm saying that Audi's example should have been a beacon for us. For here was the 1.2 billion grant agreement for Audi, in which one of the leaders of this company said in the international press that they did not need this support, they are not in a position to divide or multiply it for them, and elsewhere this support would have been much bigger and much better. However, the Government of Hungary increases the volume of grants without necks, and in some segments it has tripled this compared to the pre-2010 governments. I often criticized the people at the time for being too generous with multi-business companies, too many non-refundables. We have managed to triple this level, three new investments have been announced in the days, one or two of which may remain in the Hungarian national economy in the long term, but the fact that they are awarded ten billion-dollar non-refundables and the Hungarian mkkv sector is well placed to receive a preferential loan is a very painful duality. That is why I was also hurt when the MNB suggested that its preferential small business loan scheme would run out, the budget would run out, but we would also renovate our headquarters for 54 billion. Obviously, this is not the subject of the debate, but these are annoying statements, half sentences. Here, too, I see the need to support investments, obviously in the case of high added value and companies who also contribute to improving the wage level in Hungary, but there is no cheaper option than preserving existing jobs. The Government of Hungary is exposed when it tries to create the appearance that it is now as full of jobs as it was a year ago. But he's working from the KSH stats that distort you by hundreds of thousands, by over half a million. After all, this statistics account for student workers, those who work at least one hour a week, and I respect their work very much, but perhaps their added value, due to the low number of hours, cannot be considered to be as much as eight hours a day. For a long time, he has also counted on the public workers, tens of thousands of our countrymen, who are already working abroad, but still here at some point, have declared their countrymen and workers. We also see that those who are forced to take unpaid leave are also reported as full-fledged jobs. So there was a host who, let's say, had an employment relationship on paper, but could not obtain substantial eligible income for 3-4-5 months. The statistics, the budget plan and the analysis of this opinion do not include these amazing social maladministrations, which are part of the big picture, without which the whole process we are talking about cannot be appreciated. We also see that we could debate hours on the legal framework for the control of the performance of public money and public wealth, as well as how the concept of public money was rewritten in the Fundamental Law. As an ancient Honvéd fan, I am proud of our own camp, because even they sang it in the stadium in Felcsút, and we also sang how the vast mass of money that wandered under strange circumstances, let's say, it was not the subject of this debate again. You've been low-key, and I'm trying to stay within my professional limits. But it is certain that we must stop at the chapter on the control of national wealth management and financial management, as the SAO's opinion on the change of model at the university can also be found in the daily press. I would like to say that as a student at Corvinus, I am not at all, say, against a form of foundation, and I think that genre debates can be conducted, but basically on efficiency issues it is worth having a longer discussion. On Corvinus, however, I see that earlier cooperation with the MNB has not been so brilliantly achieved, as if the new model of operation had not brought the results that they had expected in this regard, and it is now becoming a failing model that has been surrounded by very serious expectations, and about which many have tried to create a sense of life in such a flagship that we have come up with something new, this is much better, it will sweep through the whole system and Hungarian higher education can also move into a new dimension. Unfortunately, this did not happen. [[Loyal Dezső will be replaced by Bence Tordai, Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat by Attila József Móring.]] At the same time, the debate on the foundation form and the debate on the trust fund genre, which will accompany the following months very, very many times, cannot be avoided in terms of the change of model. What we see is that such a brutal rescue of national wealth and the avoidance of the passage of the national wealth law in some cases simply jeopardises the controllability of this enormous wealth. In the past, if, in the case of elements belonging to national assets, we received the person who managed this property on the net and qualified infringement, then the restoration of the original status and a number of other legal consequences were available, the passages of the national property law could be transferred here and analysed in detail what can be done if someone is not a good owner of this property. Following the transfer of assets to the foundation form, these passes can no longer be enforced. It is questionable how these assets can be recovered for the benefit of the public, so how they will be able to fall back into the category of national assets and what control powers can be exercised in these cases. For this reason, the opposition will obviously object to the amazing, unforgivable wealth that has been transferred to the trust funds and to these processes. [[14.10]] After all, we fear that Fidesz-KDNP has priced it that it may even lose next year's elections, but it is certain that this match is doubtful, and that it will try to control as many assets as possible, under a board of trustees where they can even solve the replacement of the eliminated member in the house themselves. This is obviously nonsense, and we see that although the form of foundation itself is not from the devil, and it could be done well, in this form, in this way precisely the national property, the treatment of which the SAO has pointed out the importance of proper treatment on numerous occasions since 2010. In 2010, another promise was made, not on the SAO's side, but on the pro-government promise, on the national inventory, where we had a lot of discussions, a lot of water flowed down the Danube, but we still don't see an up to date, XXI. 100th-century wealth inventory, which this country and the national economy deserve. I often have a problem with the SAO's report that its diagnosis is excellent, it sets out the findings that should be addressed, but then I either don't see the conclusions on the same pages, or they're quite different conclusions than we do on the opposition side. For example, there is an emphasis on high levels of debt among increasing risks, the increasing lending of small SMEs. This is exactly what I was just talking about: multi-enterprises in the allocation of funds: grants by thousands, mKKs: preferential loans in good cases if the intermediary bank decides that you are creditworthy or mortgaged. This is the strange duality that we want to solve first and then lead out of the system, because it is incomprehensible that the largest employer, the mkkv sector that provides two thirds of jobs, has so little support volume. In terms of debt, I just don't understand why we can't see together and together that the sovereign debt management that we've been running since 2010 is wrong, and that doesn't lead to anything. At the beginning of the 2010s, my fellow government members tried to reassure us that Hungary, the Hungarian economy, was going to outgrow this sovereign debt and the interest repayment of 1250 billion at the time, which took down all budgets and took the price of five rentals every year, and then slowly grew. And what we see is that although Hungary's current government is trying to reduce its debt-to-GDP ratio, then the coming global crisis, which is inevitable, is encoded into the system, and this data is going back above 80 percent again. Overall, therefore, we do not see that this country could escape from this vortex in this way and in this way. We do not see in the report the very strict statement of the requirement of the national inventory. And total social groups are excluded not only from the SAO's opinion, but from the budget planning of the Government of Hungary. In view of these, therefore, we still have very serious concerns about the description, even if we are sure that there will be professional identity among us. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But we want answers to the questions I've been talking about, and they demand answers. Thank you for your attention and for your patience, Mr President.
u2021-06-08-61	Thank you very much, President and Member of the Commission, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-06-08-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Mr President, I don't want to be too subtle about the report, I'm going to make a lot of criticism. Allow me to say, first of all, that there is not much professionalism and not much independence in the State Audit Office. As regards the assessment of the State Audit Office's accounts, not much has changed compared to last year, but this year we managed to produce a spectacular information instead of a document presenting the reality. Graduation students could have an excellent brochure for the choice of a new university, but this material does not really show what the real role of the State Audit Office could be. However, the first paragraph of the report mentions that the State Audit Office has been the guardian of public funds for 150 years and that it has been a financial guaranteeer for democracy for 30 years. However, in the last year, the organization has been more famous as a fist of government than as a guardian of legality. It has become permanent that the SAO has found financial deficiencies in the very actors against which the Government of Viktor Orbán is or intends to conduct a campaign. This is the case with opposition parties in the area of elections, research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and last year, the wealth management of the University of Theatre and Film Arts was found not to be sufficiently transparent and accountable. In the last ten years, it has not even occurred to me that there is any problem with the university's finances, but when the change of model had to be supported, the SAO was among the first to hurry to support the government's arguments. The responsibility of EMMI and ITM as former maintainers is rightly raised in the domestic press, because nothing has been done to stop the alleged irregular operation. I hope you understand what I'm saying, Mr. President. At the same time, there has continued to be an end to opposition parties, there is virtually no government critical political organisation with measurable support for which the SAO would not have identified operational irregularities. This spread from the previous gigantic withdrawal of resources to a mild warning. The organization led by the former President of Fidesz County does not even try to preserve the appearance of impartiality. In the context of the operation of the ruling parties, the news was not very clear. This did not happen even when Fidesz-KDNP's candidate spent 5,5 million forints more on the advertisements published on the largest social site than a candidate could have spent on campaigning under the current legislation in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County's 6th constituencies. By the way, every year when there is an election, we make signals to the State Court of Auditors, but the State Audit Office cannot establish any lawlessness in the parties to the government. In addition, all indications suggest that the State Audit Office will turn the government's fist into a club next year. According to the bill on civil society organisations, the SAO would now examine the approximately four thousand associations and foundations reaching the balance sheet total of HUF 20 million each year. It is difficult to think of anything other than that this motion aimed at silence critical civilians, the instrument of which will be the State Audit Office of Justice itself. However, the horse's foot hangs out when, in addition to religious, ethnic organisations which are the beneficiaries of the government, sports associations are also exempt from this. This is happening despite the fact that some of these will receive an outstanding amount of public money from the central budget, which should be legally used by the State Court of Auditors. From now on, the State Audit Office will be able to take serious action against some tens of millions of NGOs, where several tens of hundreds of billions of forints of budget money will be disposed of, and the State Audit Office will not look into it. However, the SAO's bias towards governing parties is not only evident in the attack of the government's perceived and real opponents. The report mentions that the Court published a total of 30 analyses in 2020, in which the audit experience of each sector was assessed in separate analyses and presented the results. Instead of professional analysis, however, these documents did not rarely aim to support the government's current messages or even to broadcast them simply, thereby permanently breaking away from the real tasks of the organization. It is difficult, however, to assess the findings that the Hungarian Government did the right thing when it had a very active market behaviour in the procurement of protective equipment. You know, Mr President, when the opposition criticizes the fact that we spent 300 billion forints on obtaining more than 16,000 respirators... and it was right for the government to start getting respirators, but the fact that some companies were able to withdraw tens of billions of forints from their one-year operation just because they bought a ventilator didn't show up at the State Court of Auditors. And even though we have made signals from the opposition side to Péter Polt and to the police, they are constantly rejecting or closing these cases without a substantive investigation. [[14.20]] Or perhaps how the Hungarian government acquired protective equipment through brokerage companies and how these intermediary companies suddenly became, so to speak, companies producing a negative profit, suddenly millions and billions of companies, allow us, Mr President, to assume that there is something very wrong here. In addition, the government allows this and the SAO allows this, the government that has constantly said that all means will be used against companies winning in Hungary in relation to the epidemic. Compared to this, we see that for more than a year the official bodies and the government themselves have allowed this to happen in Hungary. Companies are in the middle of an epidemic, and you and the Hungarian government allow it. Similarly, the Court's experts showed that, in the context of the university model change, higher education institutions did not guarantee the preservation and protection of national assets for the performance of public tasks during the evaluation period, and it was therefore justified to strengthen the framework for the exercise of ownership rights. In recent weeks, the President of the SAO, László Domokos, has said that the government has made the right decision when he has not asked for a significant part of the EU's recovery fund, and only the HUF 2500 billion of non-refundable funding is needed because he does not want to be indebted. Of course, this will no longer prevent debt to Russia and China, even though they are far less favourable loans than the EU has offered us. I hope that the President will also give an answer as to why it is better for a state to take a more expensive loan than to accept a cheaper one. As last year's situation has been, the report is infinitely general again this year, contains specifics in as few cases as possible, and the examination of the specific cases cannot be reached. For example, the MSZP has specifically dealt with the purchase of the Mátra Power Plant, which has rarely been experienced, causing enormous damage to the state's assets. You said they'd look after the state's assets, watch over the state's assets, but the State Audit Office wouldn't mention it in your report, even though you'd have reason to, because at the end of the last week, almost all the power plants stopped due to technical failure. However, it deals with the screening of the nearly 3200 municipalities, which took place in the first full year following the opposition breakthrough elections in 2019. They did not miss out on the control of hospitals in the first line of the fight against the epidemic, where the economic risks of 41 health institutions were assessed. With the control of 12 of these institutions, the Court has reported that the Court has contributed to compliance with legal requirements and management rules, which will provide a basis for the effective functioning of hospitals and thus contribute to effective control of the coronal virus. Overall, it can also be concluded from the last year that the SAO's management will continue to achieve the objectives set in Carmelita, where they will, if necessary, investigate and publish negative conclusions, which are accidentally under government attack. And what is a politically protected zone, there is no significant damage to the state's wealth, and it is enough for me to bring up the Mátrai Force again as an example. Mr. President. Allow me once again to return to the fact that, in the last year, even now, we cannot say that we can breathe, but that perhaps we are past the worst of the epidemic period, I would very much like you to prove once that you are leading that institution impartially, and that this would be the time. When we see, and that is really the only thing, how, in the middle of the epidemic, companies seriously linked to Fidesz robbed Hungary and its citizens, how they profited from these shops, if nothing else, that is all I ask of you, if you have any conscience at all, that you will not let this one go and launch an investigation; just do it before there is a change of government, because believe me, it will be very difficult to look into the mirror after 2022. I think that everything can be explained, everything can be explained politically, but how people got rich in the middle of the epidemic while others died is totally unacceptable. We can't accept the report. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-08-63	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2021-06-08-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, There is no debate between us about the need to monitor the use of taxpayers' forints, and this could be achieved through the State Audit Office. However, we are already having a major debate about whether or not we have heard the report of an independent institution, because the current controls are inconsistent, unprofessional, and they have not tried to maintain the appearance of independence in the last two years, Mr President. In the Sargentini reports and in the spending of EU funds, we have received very many times on the part of the pro-government colleagues that it is only a staff in the hands of the European Union to mention the rule of law when it looks at our country. But, fellow Members, the operation of the SAO is one of the strongest evidence in our country of serious violations of the rule of law. The unremediated fine, which only applies to opposition parties and organisations that do not like the government, has been going on for years, and I have also brought evidence in this speech that not only the principle of equal treatment between individual organisations, but we cannot find equal treatment in time, even for individual organisations. This was no different either with the Hungarian Liberal Party or with the Democratic Coalition. Indeed, on the basis of the accounts of our financial colleagues, which was acceptable in the investigation of 15-16, it was already indicated as an error in the investigation of 17-18, and vice versa, and then explained this, a quote follows: the SAO's audit did not affect the relevant item, so the incorrect practice was not revealed. The president mentioned it in his expo, and then the fellow members of the government mentioned that the intention to improve had always won. Well, Mr President, if the intention to correct had been won, the intention to correct would not have been taken seriously not only in theory, but also in the letters which were born with the intention of improving, and when the corrections were made, these letters would not have preceded the serious penalties and press releases which were born by the SAO for a specific political purpose and with the intention of discrediting certain organisations. What evidence I have brought to prove my claims, Mr President, I would take the opportunity to be a member of a faction in which the Hungarian Liberal Party and the Democratic Coalition have suffered the factors I have mentioned. That there is no presumption of innocence in the SAO, but that there is a specific presumption of guilt when they act against individual opposition parties, and that their colleagues specifically threaten my colleagues, just as the colleagues of the Democratic Coalition, Mr President, I believe that they are not only pushing the limits of good taste, but also the limitations of the rule of law. I think it is quite simply a shame that we have come this far as we are a Member State of the European Union. In hindsight, when you get out of your jurisdiction and here is my evidence, Mr President, to prove my claims, when a case is removed from the SAO's jurisdiction and handed over, let's say, to the NAV or the investigating authority, these investigations will be terminated almost without exception, because you were wrong in these matters, Mr President. I think that when you refer to the fact that you are running an institution with a 150-year history, it would be appropriate to grow up to this 150-year-old past and take responsibility for the historical past that really serves the cleanliness of spending money and not some kind of political staff; it does not serve to make the State Audit Office an active participant in the campaign to make various press statements, which significantly interfere with political campaigns and cause significant injury to our parties in both financial and otherwise political terms. [[14.30]] They do so by the way, and then the NAV or the police prove that there was no basis for what they did. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that if you wish to deny what I am saying, I would very much like to make public the record, which could be read in the otherwise friendly tone, which was prepared for the trial which I personally participated in; the atmosphere that your colleagues had implemented was extremely threatening. I think that if someone runs an institution with a 150-year-old history and then tries to pretend independence here before the Parliament once a year, Mr President, I think that it is a disgrace not only to this institution but also to the entire Hungarian democracy. Allow me to conclude with a Cicero quote: "The sage has an absolute obligation to deal with the affairs of the country. You decide for yourself what is the duty of those who are not wise. I think that there is a particular need for a major shift, and I am thinking not only of the government, but also of the fact that the restoration of state-of-law standards will begin, above all, in the spring of 2022, by restoring the independence of the SAO. Thank you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2021-06-08-65	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, You can apply for further speeches. (No indication.) As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Anett Bősz are leaving the Chamber.]] I will ask President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. President says yes. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-06-08-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the debate was brief, the Members who drafted the criticism did not listen to the President's reply. So I see him calling me a professional in a pre-conceived concept, but I think it is not a crime in this House to say that I have had the opportunity to listen to political opinions in the framework of the last two or three contributions. Therefore, if the Members are not present, I will give them answers in writing, but I do not know, especially with regard to some of the last speeches, or I must ask, whether what Anett Bősz said threatened the President or not in the spring of 2022, about the changes that a Member who was the party president controlled by the SAO wanted; that party president did not comply with the laws, he was accountable to the Court of Auditors, and interpreted the threat of the SAO as an attack on or defence of the rule of law, and I felt the threat of the President of the SAO only that way. It is worth talking about the minutes that have been made, because the very point of this monitoring process is in which the party president made two opposing statements which this would have allowed to be clarified, the circumstances of which, I believe, if she thought she could make public. If necessary, we will obviously provide appropriate professional guidance on how the situation in which the hearing of Mrs Party President, Member, was justified. After all, the public money must be accounted for, he himself demanded this public money, and in his statement there was a different opinion in connection with the support. If you think about it, it is indeed not a simple situation, I can see that all political actors, of course, expressing their sympathy, must, together with the Court of Auditors, defend all public money at the same time and, at the same time, carry out the monitoring process of the parties and the campaign, which may otherwise affect the legitimacy of Parliament, the conditions of access to Parliament. Although I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors' powers, which have been spoken of, on the basis of the clear position of the Constitutional Court, and I have specifically mentioned this in my expozem, are nothing to be assumed. The Court of Auditors does not make a judicial decision, nor does it impose a penalty, but acts by the authorities against which there is an appeal in Hungary, and this was clearly pointed out in the Constitutional Court resolution. That the parties did not wish to exercise this right within the legal framework, and that is why the Hungarian court rejected their claim, I think that it should be held accountable not to me, but to their own lawyers or to those legal advisers who provided them with the professionalism of this procedure. However, it must be made clear that, yes, both the Liberal Party and the Democratic Coalition and the MSZP have received reports, not only in the last year or years, which have experienced legislative shortcomings in the past period, even in the last ten years if we take it into consideration. As regards the work of the colleagues of the Court of Auditors: never with the supervision of the President, I would like to stress this because I have always been personally bound by the control of the parties, I have never acted as President in the framework of either a campaign or a subscription of those letters or reports, but have always been either a secretary-general or a vice-president, or an appropriate official who, by reason of his position, has been able to act independently, since he has been fully empowered by the President to act in the interest of professional care. I think this had to be indicated specifically, because there was a question of threats and threats. I think that this is a very clear situation, and I will also ask the party president, by letter and by other speakers, to promote compliance with the procedure prescribed by the law in the economic and financial accounts of their own parties, and then, I think, those who have reports in line with the legislation will obviously be changed in the next period by the Court of Auditors' reflection. If you like, the outcome of the Court's report will also reflect what appears last year or this year, i.e. in the next period, during the controlled period. Allow me to say something about it separately, on behalf of Jobbik, Dániel Z. Kárpát raised a number of topics, in which I can say, in fact, that there were quite a few words of praise: the diagnosis was excellent; the performance control was pronounced; the State Audit Office showed a wider performance; the intensity of the work increased, so many words of appreciation could be said. I am, of course, also concerned with the comments of Mr Sándor Hadházy and Mr Erik Bánki, in that I believe that he has shown a realistic view that the SAO has done a professional job in a pandemic environment where many SAIs in the world have halted, because it has not been able to fulfil its basic tasks in relation to its usual control processes, or it has had to significantly limit its control processes, and the Hungarian Court of Auditors has not held back its control processes, but has adjusted its control accordingly to the risks. [[14.40]] In fact, it has implemented, for example, the risks related to the integrity and relaxation areas that the Court of Auditors, from municipalities to their offices and, as I said, towards central bodies and businesses and institutions, and in relation to civil society organisations, would like to promote with its similar advisory, helpful, pointing and risk mitigation work, and would also like to facilitate last year, in this very difficult situation, those working in the hospital or in the offices to carry out public tasks. So I think it is important for this public task to implement the legislation adopted in the Hungarian Parliament. As we have heard in the previous report, the Ombudsman was also asked to promote compliance. I believe that control is an important part of promoting compliance. And the Court of Auditors has provided this audit widely, and, as I have indicated, this year, as in this year, the situation in the pandemic situation has not changed from this point of view in many cases, anyway, that, above all, in the highly well-intentioned effort, everyone may only want to carry out the task, but at the same time forget that these general rules are either the public procurement rules referred to by you or the civil code, or the municipal law, or the accounting law, or the law on the management of assets, and they must be respected. I would like to stress that Sándor Hadházy, Erik Bánki and Dániel Z. Kárpát are rightly aware that the Court of Auditors is not an authority. That is the Parliament's audit work on compliance with the law, and it shows how legislation plays its role. On the one hand, it is of good quality, so it is necessary to make corrections from the point of view of the implementation that I referred to in the expoze, and we did so in the report, if necessary, that, if necessary, we personally drew your attention from this place to important detailed rules: for example, accounting, accounting, order of commitments, or even five signatures; so, I have to say, relatively prosely. Attila Mesterházy said that it is simple, it is incomprehensible that the Court of Auditors will speak in such a way. But I have to say, it's the profession. In many financial and management processes, the infinitely bureaucratic, simple procedures that represent many simple, many billions of operations give rise to the great whole, which, after all, you have been debating, negotiating and correcting various laws here for many years, encouraging hundreds of thousands of, many cases millions of Hungarian citizens to comply with these rules. Compliance with the management rules that led to accountability, transparency and, therefore, the main public financial principles laid down in the Fundamental Law. And that is very important, that in 11 a significant change has been made by your acceptance of the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law has a public financial chapter, with clear, defined criteria, and, indeed, as a guaranteeing organisation, the Court of Auditors was created, confirmed and operated in a constitutional capacity with adequate protection, in a state without threat, to create an objective picture, while respecting that a number of rules remained in place 31 years ago at the time of the change of regime, but a number of rules were justified. For example, if you take your earlier speeches, you have been given the conditions for taking the consequences. For in the last 20 years, the most important criticism of the Court of Auditors was that it was good or good, and that the Court of Auditors found such shortcomings, but then nothing happened. I believe that the Court of Auditors has changed very significant powers and methodological and operational conditions to do so in order to ensure that by means of one of the most critical and stimulating means, even at the most critical points, as I have indicated, an asset-saving measure, which represents a suspension... - and indeed, in the order of hundreds, in addition to the principle of gradualness, in addition to the possibility of repair, there were significantly fewer cases required at the initiative of the SAO, but the Treasury as an executive body acted on and took account of it; it was not, therefore, in the framework of the Court of Auditors' executive, acting. I think that this is knowingly washed and confused, and now I have to say, because it is said every year, while we say it clearly year after year, again and again that the Court of Auditors is checking, but not acting as an authority, so it does not impose fines, and there is obviously nothing to talk about when it comes to talking about redress. I mean, once again, I am not saying this, even in a previous and recent decision of the Constitutional Court, if you are studying this, you can see that the Court of Auditors is acting within its legal framework. And it's against that when they say that there are places where you think there were criminal suspicions. I've had the opportunity to listen to this every year. I understand, you, who have evidence of this, can go to authorities, both Members and citizens, who have investigative powers. I've said it so many times at the Court of Auditors, don't ask for any criminal suspicions. This sounds good, of course it can give the mood, and the Court of Auditors can be placed on the bench of the defendants, but we will not be able to act because our primary regulatory background is the law, the Fundamental Law, the Court of Auditors law and the related laws, including the parliamentary decisions. And we don't have that kind of power. So what I can tell the congresswoman is that if a power plant has stopped, and she thinks that I don't know about this crime, then she has a way of doing it, not on the pretext of the Court's accounts, and on the pretext of last year's accounts, that she thinks that last year's report was inadequate, because this weekend there was an event that might have been of a criminal nature. As an annual report by the Court of Auditors, neither in time, genre, nor in its jurisdiction, I cannot give a meaningful answer to this, in addition to the fact that it is possible to turn to the appropriate investigative body in Hungary, if that is the intention. So what I can say is that you are not the only ones who have asked for the examination of these questions without any legal consequences, but also the CREDO Committee at the Council of Europe, the parties have demanded that the campaign be tightened up. Hungary has received reports from you, and I understand you agreed at the same time that we need to tighten up the controls on the parties and the campaign. I would like to point out that these restrictions are a problem for many parties today, not for all parties; my colleagues have, as I said, appreciated and appreciated and presented this to you in a public report. But indeed, what the Congresswoman has once again suggested is that there are areas that could be further checked. Yes, the audits on the campaign budget are very strict, otherwise correctly, bound to strike legality rules. It must be made clear that, within these limits, the areas it raises are examined by my colleagues and that they are able to form their views on this issue. [[14.50]] Therefore, if I may, I am not going to present this specifically here, as the substance of the case, as I have indicated, as the Member said about an ongoing report, will soon appear, and Mrs Vice-President will supervise it, and will be given the information on this with her subscription, so, if you will allow me, I would not say any more about this. Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned it separately, and Erik Bánki did the same, and Sándor Hadházy did the same, that we tried to present a more transparent report and a digital report. This was clearly mentioned by the DK representative, László Varju, who is not now participating in the debate, not so long ago, in 19 that there is, so to speak, the production of paper in the SAO. If the congressman were here, I could tell him, but let me say this: it is easy to say this, to accuse him, but to turn this from paper to digital, there is a very serious technical and human policy condition for people to understand and have the technical condition. In addition, Erik Bánki said that yes, he sees that this requires resources, investment and development, and a very systematic process of change, and that the whole Hungarian administration, but in relation to citizens, companies and even in the world there are processes that I think need attention, and that is why it is important that the Court of Auditors minimized the processes relating to paper control last year. In fact, I believe that there has also been a very significant change in quality. So what I can say is that the renewal of the new form of reporting from 15 onwards also has the experience to further increase the understanding of our reports. I still see, given what has been said, that not everyone can make a sufficiently understandable report, our colleagues do not know the social relevance of your... We try to use the justification of the laws to show what the existence of an irregularity or compliance with a rule means. Indeed, I believe that we need to move on, but there is no way to go by it if we really identify concretely documented evidence, substantiated errors, shortcomings. Therefore, in the future, we will try to give leadership the recognition that there are mistakes and shortcomings, but we would like to place greater emphasis on the assessment and interpretation of this in the public eye. After all, it is true that an accounting law is 62. § (b) what is the problem, most people probably won't know that. In good times, we hope that the number one leader of the holding will understand; in many cases even there we see a problem. It is therefore of great importance here last year in the previous year's report that we place even more weight on help and counseling. I believe that this Parliamentary resolution, presented by the Economic Committee, is from the heart of the Court of Auditors' management. Obviously we can see it, and I also pointed out that if we point out the shortcomings, it is basically part of the public finance management of Hungarian public life, and a very large proportion of it comes to it with intention of repairing it. It would like to improve and use public funds in the future, while complying with the rules. And I therefore believe that it is worth going further on this system of instruments to point out by our controls the errors, especially for the leaders; to make clear to the public the nature of the error or deficiency, or to try to clarify the conclusions arising from compliance with the law, of course, by supporting evidence, and to give even simpler, more transparent reports that are really readable and understandable. I believe that this is a legitimate demand, and we must strive for it. I am pleased to see that basically what the SAO did not control, at least in the last year, which was already in a controllable state, has hardly been mentioned today, so I also consider that the effort, the so-called coverage of the audits, the enlargement that the SAO has implemented in its methodology and technological solution, has gained agreement. So today, the lack of criticism is a little bit, I can say, an improvement compared to the previous ones. The question of wealth has been addressed. Indeed, the Court of Auditors has also received a series of advice, calls and criticisms on what, how to check. I believe that the fact that the closing account and the annual control of the assets are for a period of time from 18 is parallel, on the one hand, does not make it easy to provide and contribute to the audited organisations. So we will not make it easy for them when we are now requesting data on last year in June-July, while they are also linked to the accounts, and to the plans for the following year, all these work processes are linked to the summer vacation. But this is how we can ensure what Dániel Z. Kárpát asked us to give an assessment of the assets in addition to the closing accounts, and this is, as we managed last year and the year before, the aim of this year is to ensure that, from 2020 onwards, in a separate report, in accordance with the law, we can issue an independent, close simultaneous report. By the way, on the inventory side, there is a lot to improve, which will create a real accounting-based background for the national inventory, and I think that has been a great step forward, but our reports, the 18s and the 19s, quote this, so allow me not to take that into account in detail. I have taken a little look at the comments made in previous years and today, I feel that the signals received as positive feedback have been thanked for this, and I would like to point out, as a last thought, that the analyses are an extremely critical area in the current Court of Auditors' world. Talking about the present and the future was anachronism in the world of SAIs for a very long time, since the concept of audit is always linked to the evaluation of things that have happened, of a completed, completed year or process. But indeed, in terms of budgetary Council work, and even on the basis of the experience of 89, an evaluation of the regularity of the budget for the following year was also a specific task in the Court's work from 90 onwards. This is important, and I specifically indicate that there is no control of the economic concept of the budget, but in the evaluation, at least in my plenary expeditions, I have always tried to give an assessment of the economic policy context, and this is indeed at risk, and it is always indicated in other countries, if such work is carried out, that this can be the subject of criticism. On the one hand, no one can see the future for sure, and on the other hand, these processes will inevitably relate to a future process which is not closely linked to the Court's work. The Court of Auditors has 30 years of experience in this, and I therefore believe that if I was able to say that 18 out of 30 analyses directly or indirectly related to the work of the Fiscal Council, this is recognised as an achievement in the world. I hope that for you, too, that the discussion on this subject has been discussed at all, which means that they are reading it, taking it into account, critical. [[15.00]] It is not a personal criticism, because if the President of the Court is being watched, I am only contributing to the publication of the opinion of the President; indeed, I am trying to contribute to the public debate from the press or in other ways. In the work of the Budget Council, I actually took this personally and the two other members and the President into account, and I have to say that, so far, in the last ten years, since I have been a member of the Fiscal Council, the Hungarian government debt has been achieved among the constitutional rules. That's a big score. I also agree that this is the current risk of sovereign debt for a country. However, it is also important to see that there are only a few European countries that have been able to substantially reduce their public debt accumulated in previous decades, which is why we are constantly assessing this in terms of budgetary risks, including exchange rate risks. And I think that the quality of the portfolio in public debt has improved, but that does not mean that this does not cost money and would not always be a risk, so the Court of Auditors will return and return to check this issue. I especially thank you for the assessment that the diagnosis is excellent, but the conclusion is either omitted or not acceptable. Once again, in many cases it also shows analytical limitations that it is not always possible to say "yes" or "no" in every way, but I think that this is really the debate of public life, the debate of the Parliament, so I can only say that we want to contribute to the debate in the future. Sometimes this can mean provocation, sometimes agreement, and sometimes it can actually be decided later on what the real value of this is. Thank you again for your critical and positive contributions. All this means to us that they read our materials, take into account and relate to them; this is the constitutional framework of the Court of Auditors. I'm glad that if we can live up to that, even if it sometimes sounds like a threatening tone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-08-67	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. I will ask Mr Sándor Hadházy, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Hadházy says yes. You have the floor.
u2021-06-08-68	Yes, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the State Audit Office for its President, its Vice-Presidents and its staff, and I would like to highlight what I think we are all experiencing when we are, for example, in the municipalities. I was mayor for a long time, and when my coworkers told me, uh, the SAO was coming, what? I said, "You have to get the documents out, and you have to prepare for this investigation." I would just like to make it clear that the SAO's activities have been accompanied by terror over the past few years, and I can say that today we are moving light-years ahead, because the SAO is not threatening, it is not punishing, it is helping. And Mr President has also said this among the objectives that their aim is not to condemn, but to promote development, and that is the most important issue. And I think that we have made a great deal of progress in this, and that is the helpfulness and professional work that the local authorities are increasingly able to rely on, and they are increasingly using this type of assistance, and I think that is the right thing to do. I think there's still tension in the system. I consider this to be the case, which I indicated to the President perhaps a year ago, that the resources of the municipalities are not always equally present, and not all municipalities can afford the best, most prepared, with the most thorough professional experience in the financial field. And that could give rise to some tension, and the mayors, of course, take responsibility, because the mayors are responsible for the farming, and I still see a serious deficiency in that. I asked a year ago, and I keep asking how to move forward on this issue, and how to constantly strengthen the professional background of the local government and put it on a better and better footing, but in fact, we could also get an answer to this question from the presentation. I can only express myself in the uppermost degree on this issue. It is very good professional work, and what I can actually say is that if you read the SAO's reports, professional materials, forecasts, you can get very secure economic and management funds. Dear Parliament, I continue to propose that the information submitted by the SAO and the part of the report be supported and adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-08-69	Thank you very much, Vice President Sándor Hadházy, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, who has applied for the floor after the agenda:, For how long? It's an address.
u2021-06-08-70	Mr President, Dear House, It is now a well-known fact that there is a demographic winter in Hungary, and unfortunately, if the current rate of our decline continues, Hungary may have a population of between 6 and 6.5 million people after the 2050s. It is hard to imagine another country like this, but what we see is that continuous ageing, the typical emigration of young people of active age, which is common in these countries, can lead to a situation where social systems can become unsustainable, not to mention health care, education. At the same time, we see that we would have countless tools in our hands, even in these difficult moments, to change these processes, to change them in the right direction, and obviously it is not worth thinking only about the support of families, this is a 1.0 entry-level step, but also a comprehensive program to eliminate housing cataclysms and a social safety net patch for children has become indispensable. So we look forward to some of these finally happening! However, we were amazed to see the latest news on fertility centers, and while we find that in Hungary there are tens of thousands of couples, but unfortunately hundreds of thousands of them, need help in order to fulfill their plans to have children, this help has arrived in recent years either on a bumpy road or not at all. And now we see that, due to the changes in the last year and a half, the activities of the private fertility centers have been virtually rendered impossible by this government; it has made it impossible for them to operate, it has practically banned these companies, because it can be seen that they want to bring everyone to public health. I would have no objection or objection to the fact that if public health provided a normal standard of assistance within a reasonable period of time, but those affected by the substance and clients inform us that now, when they wish to request treatment or testing at the fertility centre, they typically did not receive a 2021 date in the month of May. So help on one side is not coming in time, waiting lists are developing, and they are brutally long, even for those who, for biological reasons, may often be waiting for their last chance to have children. On the other hand, there are private centres that have helped hundreds of couples and have contributed to the birth of hundreds of children, against whom there may be government grievances, or accusations, of course, to be clarified. I am not a big fan of private health either, if there is a state that is affordable and provides a secure service. But until the public network is able to provide immediate assistance to all people with fertility problems within a closed deadline, I feel it is an assassination to disable the activities of private fertility centres. [[15.10]] It can be said, and any country can say that public health can provide all kinds of help, but then the appropriate mass of resources must be allocated there, not a year later, and not at the end of brutal waiting lists, even a consultation or examination. It is therefore expected that customers of fertility centres should not be in this uncertainty to spend their daily lives, but to obtain meaningful help. We are confused about the government's recent intention to amend it. At the same time, we see that in Hungary there are 12 state-based fertility centres, and we do not see 40 similar centers for the Czech Republic that are so much more populous. And there are plenty of customers there, and there may even be shorter waiting times, but it doesn't matter that you have to wait two weeks for the beginning of the rugged road to child birth, so you are facing a Hungarian couple for the entry category, or you are facing a multi-annual hopeless process. I am very afraid that, in the case of many future mothers, this may take away the desire to try later, and in the case of Hungarians, it is vital that we provide meaningful, immediate assistance to all Hungarian couples in similar situations. Recently, I suggested that the Hungarian State advance all alimony payments, give them, and then enforce the claim later on on those who did not pay. Unfortunately, this proposal bled to death, although there is no doubt that there has been a shift in the area, but it is not as much as I would have liked, but I expect that all Hungarian citizens can receive substantial assistance in terms of fertility treatments within a closed deadline. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-08-71	Thank you very much, Congressman Z. Carpathian. Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós, MP applied for a post-meeting speech:, How far do they go when the hospital in Mosonmagyaróvár is being dismantled? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-72	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, I am astounded at this, as I see it, that I will not be able to get an answer to this speech, even though I gave this request with a specific title more than a week ago, so there would have been plenty of time to prepare. Unfortunately, there is no independent Ministry of Health in Hungary, which is also regrettable, but Minister Kásler could have sent someone to answer if he had taken seriously the questions, needs of the citizens living in Mosonmagyaróvár and its region, or at least Minister István Nagy, as a Member of Parliament in the region, could have said his position on this. In our hospital, as in the national and the majority of Europe, the situation is that the pandemic may slow down slowly, and so, fortunately, life is beginning to recover. However, we found in Mosonmagyaróvár and the region that this did not happen in the case of our hospital. Thus, despite the relief of the pressure, to this day the emergency care has not fully recovered, childcare, obstetrics, gynecology has not recovered, and unfortunately there is information that points to the fact that the government does not plan to restore these functions; which is also shocking because we are going through an extremely foggy change of director, the details of which were also not known to the public. So we are talking about a huge area; not only the city, not only Szigetköz, Jánossomorja, but there is indeed an argument that the M1 motorway is also passing through the edge of the city, so there may be a lot of problems that all justify having emergency care in the area in 0-24. On three fronts, the fight began on the civilian side in order to save the hospital's every capacity and restore the right patient care. On the one hand, an online collection of signatures was initiated by civilians, and on the other hand, I also started with activists in a more physical way, in the more busy spaces, as countless concerned citizens joined this initiative, and the experience that, nationally, where we managed to stop this health-destructive policy, it was all in an area where civilians could join forces and move beyond party affiliation, they could act together against this phenomenon. So that's what I'm encouraging everyone to do. And the third front is that from this Sunday at 5 p.m., we would like to bring a living chain around the hospital, which is also to show how important this institution is to us, to the people who live there. Karolina Hospital, therefore, I think it deserves it, and the people there deserve the attention they have not received so far, and if they did not consider this matter so important now to answer me personally, and through me to the thousands of tens of thousands of concerned citizens, then I very much hope that at least a change in their actions will occur as soon as possible, and they will hear these words of relief. It would not be fair, it would not be fair to those living there if these benefits ceased permanently, both because of the economic weight of the region, because of the number of citizens living there and because of the characteristics I referred to earlier. So I very much hope that this silence, which I will now receive in response, is just for me and not for the region, and they will soon be able to say something positive about it. The locals are running out of patience. I ask you very nicely, and indeed I call on you to do everything you can to ensure that Mosonmagyaróvár and his region get their full health care back. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-08-73	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Gergely Kálló Jobbikos, Member of the Council, has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's called the 2nd.
u2021-06-08-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, but most of all, my fellow members of the Government. Believe me, I will not get tired of talking to you about Hungary's largest iron company, its critical position, the Ironworks month after month, week after week, and every day if necessary. I'm not gonna get tired of it because what happened at the Ironworks? Since September last year, iron workers have been paid in two instalments, they have cancelled the collective agreement, the turkey money for Christmas, which is 120 thousand forints, and they do not get the employees. Retirementes who retired from Ironworks after 25 years of work don't get the pension supplement they've been given. There is an increase in uncertainty among workers, and a departure from the Ironworks has also begun. Private army parades in the city at night, parentheses open, István Mikó's business partner and his partner, Csaba Tóth, were imprisoned in the night, so nice company, parentheses close, there are these uncertainties and such things appear, and despite all this, the government has done nothing for the ironworks and has done nothing for the Hungarian metallurgy. What do they do to get rid of us when we ask for help? Last time, Mr. Secretary of State, they were simply classified as fake news by one. Two, we're still being dissuaded by the fact that Ironworks is a private company, so it doesn't have to be helped by the government. Let me also disprove that, my dear gentlemen, in recent years I have collected 17 companies, which are private companies, and these 12 company close to NER, private company, and received HUF 22.5 billion of state aid in the last year alone. And what else do they do to get rid of us? Here comes the third: the Gyurcsány thread is also discovered, and they say that the Ironworks have been privatized by the Gyurcsány government, so this is our fault. Let me disprove you in this, too, because I have collected the records. One of the minutes, when György Matolcsy was heard by a committee, says György Matolcsy in 1999 that the Orbán government had already prepared the privatisation of the Vasmű. But Stumpf István was also before a committee in 2001 and also confirmed that yes, the first Orbán government had already prepared the privatisation of Vasmű. [[15.20]] So that reason against them doesn't hold up, and it doesn't hold up. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I will not get tired of talking about the Ironworks, making suggestions and helping the Ironworks escape. One thing I am very bored about, however, is your doing nothing to one of Hungary's largest employers. What I'm so tired of is that you're trying to get rid of us for zero reasons and get rid of us from month to month. I'm so tired of this. I'm so sick of this. I ask you this: if workers who come to work on Nagyvenyam, Iváncsa, Rácalmás, Key or any other settlement in our region lose their jobs, what will they say? What are they gonna say? ! Sorry, the ironworks private company, didn't we have an obligation to help you say that? Will they be able to look those people in the eye? Will they take responsibility for the ten thousand families who live in the Ironworks? I don't think so. I don't think so. Ironworks can be saved. The Hungarian metallurgy can and must be saved. We're partners in this. Let's do this together. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-08-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Simon Miklós, representative of Fidesz, spoke with the title "National Security in the context of the 2022 budget." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-08-76	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, During the last three years of the parliamentary term, members of the Defence and Police Committee and the National Security Committee have heard a number of reports about the security challenges facing our country from the leaders of the region, the defence and law enforcement agencies, including national security services. These reports also provided us with reassuring information about the measures taken to protect Hungary's security by our top leaders. The development of the budget of our defence bodies in the committees, i.e. their availability with the necessary physical and technical means and with human resources, is a priority agenda returning year after year in relation to defence and security policy issues. The adoption of the parliamentary decision on Hungary's security and defence policy is an important point of alignment for Members of Parliament during the debates on security policy, either in committee or even in plenary. Since the introduction of the first emergency, the government has taken a number of decisions to successfully protect the country's economy in addition to the control of the epidemic. However, there is less talk about how we managed to address the specific security challenges that have intensified and expanded with the outbreak and do not stop with the outbreak. An important issue in this context is how, in addition to the introduction of a number of economic protection measures, the government has been able to make the operation of defence bodies in this area more effective. There is even less public talk about a special area of the national security sector, civilian intelligence. The Information Office serving civil intelligence functions has an important role to play in detecting threats outside the country's sovereignty. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State for Civil Intelligence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, how intelligence in the emergency has been able to meet government expectations and what funds the government can provide for the provision and strengthening of intelligence activities in the budget overrided by the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-08-77	Thank you very much, Congressman Simon Miklós. The speech following the agenda will be answered on behalf of the Government by Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2021-06-08-78	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the questions you have raised, as during the pandemic, you have drawn attention to the importance of security policy issues and thank you for highlighting the defence, police and security aspects of the situation caused by the epidemic. I agree with my fellow Member that the only way to guarantee Hungary's safety is to not forget the security and national security challenges in this difficult situation. When we look around the world, we see around us and in the wider world that the competition between states and nations has not calmed down. If we are talking about epidemiological challenges, civil intelligence has provided up-to-date and accurate information and information to government bodies, health and epidemiology organisations on the spread of the coronal virus in our environment and on what measures have been taken by some states and how effective those measures have been; the service has also contributed valuable information to the purchase of medical devices and medicines. And let us not forget that the epidemic has not deterred the mass of migrants coming from the southern direction from entering Europe, and many continue to plan their journey through Hungary. Thus, the fight against illegal migration remains our priority, the task of national security services. Neither have threats from cyberspace been eliminated, and attacks from the home office with a state or criminal background can be carried out as well as without them, and services have performed and are performing an important task in their detection and elimination during the epidemic and today. The fight against the epidemic was a priority, and the economy will remain. In this respect, it was not only the epidemiological restrictions that had to be dealt with, but also the competition and competition that this situation has created. In the area of economic security, the epidemic continued to stimulate competition between countries, including attracting job-creating investments to Hungary and competition for economic expansion and redistribution of so-called capacity, which has also provided significant assistance and information and supported government decision-making. Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, has been continuously counting on and counting on information and support from the Information Office in addition to the Ministry's organisation. However, for this performance, there is also a need for appropriate tools in addition to the excellent intelligence officers who serve in the Information Office. Every year, the government also provides civilian intelligence with the necessary financial resources for development, and the effective use of these resources is ensured by the planning in which intelligence management and political management naturally cooperate. [[15.30]] With the most modern means, it aims to support this work with the development ideas and projects developed by the Government, the Head of the Information Office, and adopted by the Government. If we look at the budget planned for 2022, I can tell you that the total amount of expenditure allocated to the Information Office shows a 25% increase compared to this year. So I think the work is from a source. And we can also see that, as a result of the strengthening of the economy, the government supports the operation of the Office in proportion to the resources available in the central budget as a result of the relaunch of the economy, so that the government's actions fully and well serve the country's security and defence interests and capabilities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2021-06-08-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What about HUF 60 billion promised in Érden and its region? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-06-08-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be said from the point of view of the 21st century. We live in unworthy circumstances of the century, while my fellow Member, András Aradszki, held in his hands a unique opportunity 11 years ago, because there was and behind him the two-thirds majority of the government, a single victory, and the mayor from his political family led the county-righted town of Érd. In fact, he soon had the position of State Secretary for Development to finally meet the current challenges of his chosen home, Érd and region, and to fulfil his obligation to develop solid road surfaces. On the other hand, we see that 75 percent of the road network in Érd has no solid road cover; the Diagosdians say that half of our city is still on dirt roads; but the Turkish Ballinians and the Tarnosians were not doing much better. In fact, I feel that this situation is even worse, and it will be harder to come out of than what I experience in my own city. In the summer, dust clouds, often even knee-deep mud can wait for the Érdians when a lot of people come home from their jobs in the capital. A shocking thing happened, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2018 campaign, because most of the citizens of Érd, Törökbálint, Töröknok, Társadókút, Orszakrazmor felt that the Member was really preparing for something big, because he was going to go into a road network development programme of HUF 60 billion. The statement they made at this press conference was that in five years there would be a solid road surface on every single street. It's been three years, a little over three years. I myself made an attempt in last year's budget debate, as I saw as a member of the Committee on Budgets that there were not even a series of these 60 billion items in the last three years, even two, when I looked into it, and I presented a proposal for a budget amendment that could have made the promise of my fellow Member, and of his fellow political family, András Aradski. Then, when I saw that the majority of the government had swept off this proposal, I asked my fellow Member to try to present this amendment in the context of a press conference or a letter. After all, as in the discussion of the 2022 budget, as in 2021, we have seen as members of the committee that while the opposition amendment proposals have failed in order, the amendments made by our pro-government fellow Members have been accepted at all times, thus increasing our national economy and our society. However, I did not receive the basis for some kind of cooperation agreement or cooperation from my fellow Member, Mr András Aradszki. At the same time, a provocator appeared at this press conference, with whom we had quite a chat. This does not change the fact that this programme has not been launched, and it was similar to last May as last year's rainfall on the back of the rainfall, and interestingly we had this debate with my colleague, András Aradszki, on the corner of a street where the water pours down between the supersized railway sleepers when a greater rain is raining in the city. Well, be a man on his feet or a car on his wheel, which can come down this hill safely, because otherwise, the dombes hilly conditions and terrain in Érd do not make it easier for the citizens of the city. It is no exaggeration to say that in the last eleven years, but perhaps a decade and a half, T. András Mészáros took over in 2006 in this city, basic infrastructure investments have not been made. But in May of this year, much sadder events have occurred than I have just told you that the water is pouring down the railway sleeper trees, or sometimes the rainwater has washed a little bigger holes out of a dirt road, namely a whole block of buildings. In this way, not only the development of the road network is an urgent obligation for this city, but also for other drainages. I hope that next year we can do this, which is why I will fight in Érden and its region. Thank you for listening, and thank you for your patience, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-08-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-municipal speech with the title "Somogyi"
u2021-06-08-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the last few days, Parliament has discussed a number of important matters between the walls of this House. This was, for example, the regulation of the activity of a player, Paks II. a credit facility for investment, or a model change in higher education, to mention just a few. However, I am now bringing somogy cases here to the Parliament that really concern the everyday lives of the people of Somogy, and with a little attention we can make their lives easier. What am I talking about? The world has opened up, and children have to go to school, and adults have to go to work, and they have to be able to get to work and home from there. It should also be made clear that in the south-west part of Lake Balaton, in the summer months, tourism and catering traditionally provide work for people living in the Marcal district, who live far away from Lake Balaton. The problem is, however, that the last flight from Mary's Bath to Marcali leaves a few minutes after 8 o'clock, while the nightclubs and catering places usually close after 10 o'clock, so the return of these people is not guaranteed. [[15.40]] Nor has it been possible for young people and young people who have been going to the shore of Lake Balaton to have fun, to have fun, to do so without a car, so that they can drink a nice beer or a nice glass of Balaton wine in the sunset. They can't go home either, and that's just because there is no bus service, but rail transport and passenger transport have been abolished since 2009 towards Marcali, and the bike route hasn't even been completed, which has been promised since 2017. So if this were resolved, it would make life easier for the people of Somogy. I go further: as the school finishes, it is good news for the students, but bad news for the adults in the Marcali area who went to work with the students during the school hours, because the Volán, seeing the experience of the last few years, eliminates these flights in the early morning and early afternoon, so it will be difficult for these people to get to their jobs at the industrial center in Marcal. Therefore, it would be good if these flights were maintained this summer and in the future, because this would also make life easier for the people of Somogy. Another traffic issue. For more than ten years, the M7 motorway has served the traffic of the Somogyans, which is particularly busy during the summer months, but is also very busy. I've experienced it myself, but the man who lives there has experienced for more than ten years what it's like to have trucks speeding and driving at 130 kilometers per hour. That's what blond people do. And not only at the end of Kossuth Street, but in essence in the whole village, the noise of the M7 can be heard, which could otherwise be changed by creating a noise barrier. This has been the case in Ordachehi before, and this has solved the problem. Not least, there would also be a problem in the centre of the village of Two places that has existed for many years, which could be solved with a little attention and a little effort. We are talking about a settlement of 2,300 people, in the centre of which there are a number of children between the bus stop and the school during the day, and many citizens of Somogy are also trying to get to the municipality, and the extremely busy and busy road 68, which is very difficult to get through. That's why we're talking about planning the renovation of 68. I am very confident that this need will be taken into account in the design and that a lamp crossing will be set up. This would make life easier for the people of Somogy, both at the same time. I trust you've heard my words, heard my words. These aren't party politics, they're local affairs, and let's give them a little attention and a little care. Thank you so much for listening. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2021-06-08-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 14 June 2021. Thank you for your work. I wish you a good day, a healing time. The meeting's closed.
