u2021-04-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Steinmetz will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, László Pósán, Fidesz, János Halász, Fidesz, T/15982. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-1	Mr. President. Dear House, With thousands of years of legal continuity, less than a dozen countries can boast on Earth, Hungary is among them. The thousand-year statehood also implies that there is an immense amount of documents, measures, legal events linked to the state existence, from the beginning of the beginning, from our founding King István until now. We call a significant part of these documents a public document. The document which is created in connection with the operation of the state and its organs is an order, a decree, a document of some form, and, of course, like all states, the Hungarian State protects the public documents, the archival law and other laws are about the protection and treatment of these. However, Hungary's history was also stormy, not only long, because if you look at the last two hundred years, then from your cameras to the Tovaris, there were very many people in the archives, from the communists to the Arrowists, and there they disappeared, took away, put back, threw away the Hungarian publicist material. Then, at the time of consolidation, there was a law that settled the fate and treatment of the public documents. That archival law and the predecessor of today's archival law actually took a position in principle on this issue which we hold today, namely that there are two great types of public documents. One is when a public document is issued by the State in relation to a private person or a legal person; there are, of course, two copies of the public document: one goes into the archives or goes into the public archives, and the other is with the legal person or natural person to whom the public document otherwise refers. These are still produced in very significant quantities. However, there is another kind of public document, which cannot, in principle, be owned by any other legal entity, since there are no direct instructions relating to an individual or to a Hungarian legal person, internal documents, requests, interstate regulations, documents between the State and its organs, and these are treated by today's legislation in principle, that such documents cannot in any form be in private hands, owned by the State alone and exclusively by the State. On this approach, the Archives Act builds its logic, which means that this type of public documents is not, therefore, what concerns the actions of the State and its bodies against or related to private or other legal entities, but other public documents which are not conceptually privately owned by the State. If they are owned by a private individual and this becomes known to the State, they shall be returned without consideration to the individual or the legal person by the State to the archives. These have a protection clause, since it is quite clear that János Szapolyai's insurrection call to the nobility of the county of Bács is the 16th. The legal relevance of the century is now limited, but its historical or cultural historical significance is great and should be protected. So he puts a large part of the public documents under protection, records them, and, of course, treats them according to the rules of the archival law. The fact is that in October 1956 there was the last major event, revolution in Hungary, where, by the way, significant events took place from various political intentions in the State Archives, documents disappeared, were destroyed, but there was no such event from 1 January 1957. My suggestion is this, and let's face it, the actual situation: there are a significant number of public documents in private hands; this is recognised or not, but they are there. They cannot be found, because if they are found, the archives simply return them without remuneration, so these documents, if they are significant or interesting, have a black trade instead. On the black market, however, there is a strong demand for such documents for various reasons: some of them have historical interest, some of which are important for signature collectors. I'll just give you an example. There is no Hungarian archival copy of the first aviation agreement concluded between the Kingdom of Hungary and the Kingdom of England in 1933, it is in private hands, and after the signature of King George, this represents a very significant value in the English signature collecting market. You can't turn up because, right, whoever has it won't take it to the market, because the archives are coming, and they're gonna have it back. Obviously, an aviation agreement between the Kingdom of Hungary and the United Kingdom does not have an individual recipient, so it cannot be conceptually private, but it has been removed from the archives; it was there at some point, now we know from the register that it is not there. Then after these German occupations, the Russian occupation, the otherwise well-intentioned public archives, who tried to make the Anglo-Saxon documents disappear in the mid-40s, we don't know, but there are a lot of such documents, and they are partly relevant, interesting, partly cultural historical. They are certainly worthy of research, but it is essential that the Hungarian state is aware of this. With its mass, there are documents demonstrating the existence of Hungarian statehood in the territory of the kingdom before Trianon, and it is understandable that the relations between the countries to which the former territories under the jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Hungary have come are highly ambivalent, since, let's say, a significant part of them contradict the historical approaches that they claim to have, such as Transylvania or Transcarpathia or the Highlands. [[9.10]] But the thing is, even if they do turn up, anyway, according to the current rules, the archives are completely justified and re-arranged. I propose that, in accordance with international practice, we allow these documents to be found, allow them to be marketable. Let us set a date that we know that the storm of history has not disturbed the Hungarian archival material, according to my recommendation, or consulted the archives, instead of the current rule of January 1, 1957, which, on the one hand, universally interprets the concept of a public document, so a public document published by King Lajos Nagy is just as much a public document as, in view of his legal status, the land register of the land in question is a public document, a public document, which treats everything from the land register to the documents of the Anjou period created after the Zách Felician's rebellion. Obviously, the land register certificates have legal relevance today, but they do not have much historical significance; the documents that closed the Zách Felician rebellion, confirmed by King Lajos Nagy, have historical significance and cultural historical significance, of course there is no legal relevance today. From the ballads of gold, the ballad of Klara Zách, we know the whole story, it's very interesting, by the way. I'm saying this document because it's real, it's real, it's real, and it's private. I've been approached by a lot of collectors, various auction organizers, antiquarians, to do something about this situation. So obviously, a document proving the historical existence of a ballad of Klára Zách, sung by János Arany, has no historical and cultural historical relevance. Therefore, I suggest that we draw a line, let us say that we acknowledge that the public documents created before 1 January 1957 can be private, that they have been removed from the State Archives. And let's say the next one. If a person is in possession of such a public document, is derived from the archives, is a bona fide owner, we follow the following procedure: the person submits this public document to the archives, the archives weighs it, digitizes it, registers it, if it is required to grant immunity, because it is of such importance whether culturally or historically, it is protected, which means that the owner is asked to guard it as well as to be cared for and otherwise to be researchable, cannot take it out of the country, but otherwise it is marketable, because it is owned by the person, and if the owner alienates it, then the Hungarian archives should have the right of pre-emption. This procedure ensures that documents can be found that would be useful if they were found, but they cannot be found today because of the current regulations. The general rule of the fight against the black market or the fight against the black economy is that we are much better off if we make the rules lifelike, because it slows down the black market more than we are chasing it with public organisations, because we know that when people were actually hung for black cutting, there was a black cut, because life is like living. If we couldn't, we had to admit, with this regulation, which basically protects public documents from a state point of view, we couldn't prevent the existence of a black market. That's why I'm suggesting that we adjust the attitude a little bit, that at least a lot of documents can be found, because it's in the interest of anyone with such a document to declare at the archives whether it's worth something or not. And if we put them under protection, if they represent such a value and are alienated, the Hungarian State will at least have the opportunity to obtain it using its pre-emptive right. There are a lot of interesting documents, even if you look at the list of auction auctions, there are a lot of documents that are interesting, so you can see that there's a lot in private hands, which, by the way, let's say, the archives weren't classified as public documents, or they thought it wasn't subject to the law. But the existence of these... I give just one example: the private correspondence of Count Andrássy as Minister of Foreign Affairs and the wife of the Hungarian Queen, Franz Joseph, has recently been published from an Austrian auction. Luckily, I don't know, maybe the State Archives or the National Museum bought it, or the Széchényi, now I don't know, he didn't have the right to buy it, he just bought it. It is extremely interesting, by the way, that it has historical and cultural historical significance, because the correspondence from politics goes all the way to what kind of dress the Hungarian party should normally propose for a public ceremony in the event of participation. So I think that if we introduce such a regulation, a lot of interesting things can come up. Otherwise, it is in everyone's best interest to judge whether it is a public document or not, so it is in everyone's best interest that if he is entitled to keep it, something that he already has or has, the storm of history carried it there, then he knows what value it represents and is resurrected. In any case, the register, the searchability, the responsible guarding of these will be carried out, and the fact that the Hungarian State, if it considers it and spends money on it, can also be owned by the public documents which are particularly important. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, please support this motion and, of course, I look forward to your improved comments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-30-2	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State Peter Fekete has the floor.
u2021-04-30-3	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, The archival network of Hungarian cultural life, an extremely strong, prominent sector of the archival system, can be expected to function in a unique or at least strong way in Europe. For ordinary ordinary people, it is often impossible, not known, how important a task our archivists perform, and what this institutional system does in everyday life. Of course, our experts know that this institutional system is the basis for our rule of law, but this is a good time to thank the archivists, our very good experts in the archives, for ensuring that our state can reach back into the past at any time, in any form whatsoever. This archival network is developing very seriously, as digitisation opens not only to tangible materials but also to the researchability of them for a much wider social layer. It is not only the preservation of documents stored there, not only the processing of them, but also the opening up of the broad sections of society to the archives now, and we are doing well in this, these systems are being renewed. All data, all information that helps us to do professional research on the one hand, but to get more data in everyday life can be useful to us. [[9.20]] So the point of the presentation is, in particular, when we say that documents which are currently in private hands and cannot be researched, we do not know the content, on the one hand, the professionals involved in this, and, on the other hand, ordinary people cannot look into them, and this new system now ensures this, because these documents are coming out, we consider this to be extremely useful. We hope that we will open the doors of the archives for public transport, which we have launched two or three years ago, starting with family tree research, following the knowledge of our environment, the knowledge of our past, with actions that, if such an amendment is adopted, will be able to serve our archival system even more effectively. So, on the government's side, we support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz Group supports the present bill, which aims to ensure the settlement of the ownership of permanent public documents acquired by private individuals, to ensure their survival for posterity, by amending the law on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives and by amending the law on the protection of cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about treasures that are highlighted in the preservation, exploration and public domain of a very important issue. For our part, we thank the rapporteur for presenting us with this very important question and, together with possible further amendments, for meeting the objective that we are facing. The essence and essential points of the regulation of the bill before us are the following. A clear record of the ownership of the public documents. The authentic instrument may be owned by the body which has taken up the public service mission, or by the State, unless it is legally owned by private property. The second point of the submission, as the author said, is the presumption of ownership of the holder in the public documents created before 1957, and the opposite is to be demonstrated. The third point is essential: in the public documents created after 1957, the private owner must prove legitimate ownership. The fourth important finding and proposal of this proposal is that private documents created before 1957 are marketable, of course subject to prior notification. In the event of a change in the owner of the public documents, for example in the case of sale or inheritance, it must be reported to the Hungarian National Archives. The Hungarian National Archives, acting under official authority, is entitled to decide whether a document is an authentic instrument or a private document. The Hungarian National Archives, as an authority, prepares a certified electronic copy and keeps a register of privately-owned, lasting documents, the protection of which can be declared by the power of the law and will be considered protected. It is also important to have the intention and support of a pre-emptive right to the State in the event of the sale of privately owned public documents. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft clarifies the ownership of the authentic instruments by ensuring that the acquired property cannot be withdrawn. Failure to notify may result in a fine, but in no case shall an authentic instrument legally owned by a private person be taken. The authentic instrument shall be separated from the private document, the private document. The private document under the law is clearly subject to the provisions of the owner, which may be restricted only if it has been declared protected by a separate administrative procedure. In the case of a public document, in the case of a public document, in view of the public interest objectives deriving from the Fundamental Law, it is also possible to do so where the owner is not a public body performing a public service mission, by which he is justified and justified in the case of documents of administrative value within the public authority's view, by the title of making copies and making copies for use, by the right to pre-empt the State, and by establishing their registration and protection. As a matter of principle, the public document is clearly distinct from the private document. In the absence of a definition of the plurality, these measures, which constitute the basis and purpose of the procedure, could be challenged in the case of private documents. In addition, the plurality and the related public ownership claim also base on the pre-emption right. In total, the decision on the plurality is therefore the basis for the validation of the other elements of the procedure. The distinction in principle between a public document and a private document is clear, and its practical assessment is a complex and professional task, which is available at the Hungarian National Archives. It is therefore necessary to establish the relevant administrative procedure and to refer it to the duties of the Hungarian National Archives. The procedure will take 30 days, which will be significantly shortened in the future, as well as in most official procedures, so that, if you look at them, the time interval is significantly shorter. Its aim is to make rapid and effective decision-making. It serves as simple a process as possible that permanent documents are considered to be covered by protected cultural goods by the registration of the Hungarian National Archives as a public authority, and there is no need for a specific lengthy procedure. The author also considers it necessary to point out that, although the primary purpose of this regulation is to draw forward documents of high value to the State, such as documents of great value, it may be necessary not only in the case of documents of lasting value, but also in the case of a set of documents of uncertain origin, such as those found in the attic or anywhere. In this effort, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal and proposes it for adoption by this House. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, especially during the Second World War and during the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, as we know, a significant amount of authentic documents have been owned or held by private individuals. Most of these came from public bodies, but occasionally documents from archives also appear. 21st of 1947 on the settlement of the archives In the light of the provisions of the Act, it was not in principle possible to obtain a permanent authentic instrument from the public body after its entry into force. However, during the period of the party-state dictatorship and the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, there have been numerous cases of bona fide rescue of documents, resulting in the possession and possession of authentic documents by individuals. The return of these documents has not been completed as a result of historical events. The T/15982 in front of us. Legislative amendment No. 1 serves to make these documents fit, together with the notification obligation, to become visible to the State. The private ownership of a public document could only take place in extremely special cases after 1 January 1957, so the burden of proving legitimate ownership is borne by the owner of the authentic instrument. So this proposal is intended to reassure us of the legal situation of authentic instruments that have been delegated over time to the public body or to the State and have become the property of individuals, and, as my colleague, Mr Kósa, said, these should not replace farmers on the black market. As we know, the authentic instrument may be owned by a body carrying out a public service mission, it may be owned by a State or by any other body or person other than the above, if it has legally acquired ownership on them. [[9.30]] These so-called derived authentic instruments, the content of which, if they are of lasting value, is a state priority to preserve and research for posterity. I totally agree with that. In view of this, in the case of these derived authentic instruments, the proposal sets out the right to pre-empt the State. The proposal also provides incentives for owners to notify authentic instruments of origin at the Hungarian National Archives, which the owner can do in accordance with the official procedure for establishing the quality of the document. After the announcement, the Hungarian National Archives may submit a purchase offer for the authentic instrument, and if the owner does not wish to sell the authentic instrument, the archives shall return the authentic documents of permanent value to the owner after they have been digitised and registered, thereby ensuring their survival for future generations. The authentic instruments in the register are protected by law and the holder of the document has an obligation to report changes to the registered data. According to the proposal, an authentic instrument protection penalty may be imposed if the holder of the authentic instrument does not comply with his obligation to notify the Hungarian National Archives. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Peter Fekete. In addition, Mr Secretary of State, I hope that the Parliament will accept this proposal myself will ask for the support of the Jobbik faction, in addition to the fact that this will be published in the Hungarian Gazette, the Hungarian Government has planned, as I have said, a programme or campaign to raise awareness of the incentives, in order to see what their obligation is and what sanctions can be expected if they fail to do so. This is a very important change, and I think it is in the common interest of all of us to reach a wide range of society, because this amendment will achieve its original goal if it results in a very positive practice. In this connection, I would like to address a question to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa. It stated in the proposal that there could be a significant number of such documents. More specifically, by magnitude, can we estimate what the significant number could have been when this proposal was submitted? Can we get more information on this, to support the demand that the proposal suggests if the Parliament accepts this proposal after the debate has taken place? In particular, given the experience of previous years, how much, what number of permanent authentic instruments can be owned by private individuals? I would like answers to these questions. Thank you very much for your attention, and as I have said, I will ask for the support of the Jobbik fraction.
u2021-04-30-8	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now address Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-30-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, for bringing this issue to us on authentic instruments, and my fellow Member has already presented the amendment of the law in detail. I would like to add so much, although we are obviously all concerned with the question of what constitutes an authentic instrument, and it is important to say that it is an authentic instrument, regardless of the time of creation and the place of custody, all documents which belong to or belong to the archives of the body carrying out the public service. In recent years, particularly the II. However, during the period of World War II and the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight, a significant amount of authentic documents were owned or held by private individuals. Most of these came from public bodies, but occasionally documents from archives also appear. It is important to emphasise that the Fundamental Law can lead to the obligation of the State to ensure that permanent authentic instruments and cultural goods are preserved and their contents are known, as well as to preserve the data necessary for the operation of administrative documents such as public administration and for the exercise of civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In view of these fundamentals, the present proposal seeks to ensure that the legal status of authentic instruments which have been assigned over time to the public body or to the State and are owned or owned by individuals. It is very important, thank you again for the presentation, KDNP supports it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-10	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it can be established after a very long parliamentary session, which debated a lot of proposals, in view of the Friday morning date, because all four days were meetings, Monday to Thursday, there was a lot of debate that this proposal would not be the biggest debate between us. I think that the points raised by the rapporteur were understandable, and the State Secretary's reaction was also understandable. I would rather ask two things and deal with two things in my speech. One of them is that two, let's say, related motions are being discussed as the first two items on the agenda by the Parliament today. One of them, the next one, will be discussed for the Government's presentation, for the presentation of the EMMI, also on a similar subject, while this motion is a motion for an independent representative. The first is that the two problems could have been dealt with in a single material, such as the EMMI, to present the wallet. It is also raised with regard to the motion by the Members that it is not a question of what might have been proposed from the Ministry in terms of what needs to be submitted. This is particularly interesting because János Halász is also one of the signatories, who is, by the way, the State Secretary of the EMMI. Obviously, in these cases, the question is always raised that it is not a question of the fact that its own motion must meet completely different parameters. Obviously, the materials put forward by the government must or should always go through some sort of social consultation. Obviously, this does not apply to motions by Members in this sense. This is an eternal debate here in this House, but, of course, every Member has the right to submit a motion. However, every time this question arises, it is worth putting it on the table, especially if the Parliament were to negotiate two partially-related motions at this point, so that it could indeed have been avoided issues which, let us say, would have triggered a debate if there had otherwise been a conciliation process. Indeed, the definition of the public document has been stated: regardless of the date of creation and the place of custody, any document that belonged to or belongs to the file file of the body performing the public service. Compared to this, it is proposed that the concept of a private document is significantly simplified, in fact a document which is not a public document. Obviously, it has also been said, and it is true that the public documents exist widely, whatever document may be a public document that once belonged to a public service body's file file. The proposal identifies a specific date, 1 January 1957, for which it does not intend to introduce this type of procedure, which it contains. In the case of subsequent public documents, the holder must prove that it has been lawfully obtained. The intention is obvious, and I understand that the lost documents will be made visible by the Parliament if you accept this motion. However, it is a question, and this is the second part of some of my comments, which I would like to do, whether this will be the case in practice. So, in fact, the holder has to prove that it has been lawfully obtained and must prove it, whether or not it was accompanied by a document 60 years ago, and there is obviously a prohibition of disposal in this sense on such documents. [[9.40]] The fact is, then, that they will restrict or deprive people of their ownership of certain documents, the original purpose of which I mean, to make public documents which may be very important for today's times in cultural life, in relation to the state, or in relation to certain historical issues, but the success of this proof can clearly raise questions unchanged from the perspective of all these years. The question is whether this is a well-meaning proposal, and I do not want to assume that it is necessarily wrong to believe in how it will motivate these holders of public documents to announce them to the state. I understand the problem raised, but I do not fully understand why there has not been a single government referral today, but I do see that this kind of technical solution is not certain that it will achieve the otherwise clearly formulated national intentions. Obviously, we will look at what is happening in this House, what amendments will be made, and what a detailed debate it will be. I hope that, in view of the problem, this House will be able to accept a joint proposal. I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government sitting here to deal with the comments in substance. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-12	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, In fact, it's no secret that Lajos Kósa and I worked in a general meeting for a very, very long time. Even then, I was always interested in watching and listening to his lectures. I was in a bit of a nostalgic mood when we heard his historical flash-forward or insight. I thank him. Otherwise, you have made many aspects of this motion that you have tabled. However, he did not talk about it, but I think it is worth mentioning that this independent motion of representatives had a past or a record. We know that in a more detailed version in which other elements would have been modified through the EMMI to see the Archives of the members of the Archives, including the Archives of Budapest Főváros, and even gave an opinion for a long time, and several amendments were submitted. However, most of these amendments, and once again I would like to say here without any edge that they were professional amendments, not political ideas, were not accepted by the government, and now we see that he is not the nationalist, but the honourable Lajos Kósa, you have tabled this in an individual proposal. My socialist colleague, who spoke before me, has already said that this is a different genre. In fact, we don't even understand why this was necessary, but they're probably gonna tell us that. The main point of the amendment is that if the public document, which was created before 1 January 1957 and was removed from public archives or even from private archives, is privately owned, and if the owner intends to alienate or export it abroad, then the Hungarian National Archives as an authority will decide on the legal status of the document and on the state's intention to purchase it. And we see that the proposal before us includes sanctions for cases where the owner does not do so on his own. The Hungarian National Archives, as I understand it, has not been an authority until now, but by adopting the law it will in some way become one. We have asked a lot of professional players on this issue what they think, because it does not really have to be a political decision. Here, it is not the Honourable Parliament that must express strong political intentions, but I think that we should listen to the opinion of the profession, what they think about it. We didn't do anything else about this. According to the capital city, the bill may have so many implications that on any document created before 1957 and removed from the capital or from another authority, this law can be applied, and then the Hungarian National Archives will act on these matters. What we know very well is that after 1945, the archives of the capital did not suffer such destruction as the National Archives in 1956, when, according to our knowledge, a great deal of material was destroyed or ended up with individuals, and here we do not assume that in any sinful way, because it could have been there in good faith. However, there may be plenty, and perhaps there are some examples, that Lajos Kósa said a few such things, that these documents can now be legally released even to the antique market. The problem is that if the document did not come out in good faith before 1957, i.e. it was stolen, it would fall into this category. But the most problematic thing about this is, obviously, that the archives will have to prove that the document came out before 1957, and the authentic instrument, not the owner. This obligation of proof shall remain with the owner only with the documents which were released after that date. Here it is perfectly clear and logical to see that the archives in question have significantly better positions here. However, it is questionable that the Hungarian National Archives will have sufficient resources to purchase the documents that are emerging in connection with the right to pre-empt. The authentic instrument thus bought back must in principle be returned to the competent archives. We hope that this will be the case, as I very much hope, that the demand in the proposal will be met, that the competent archives will be included in the investigation by the Hungarian National Archives, not just a promise. As I said, we have asked professional actors on this issue, and many professional players have consistently said that this amendment is not necessary in this form, and their experience and practice is that if an authentic instrument has been found so far, they have sought to obtain it free of charge, they have paid a maximum retention fee for it, and they have not paid a significant amount, because so far it has been the view that no authentic instrument can be alienated. We have also heard from the author that such documents have appeared even at antiquarium auctions. There has been a case where there has been a police report, but in these cases the police have generally proved powerless, since it is very difficult to know whether it is an authentic instrument or not, and the police have generally not been able to make a move. In this respect, however, this bill will obviously be a step forward. However, according to many, the transfer of the authentic instrument to private property will, with the proposal itself and its acceptance, also cross over a professional and legal Rubicon in this case. It is also the opinion of the professional players that, if the text of the amendment of the law is adopted in the present form, this House offers the opportunity to apply not only to documents derived after 1 January 1957, but also to any documents produced before 1 January 1957, in contrast to those derived primarily from the spirit and justification of the amendment. That is, if a pre-1957 document appears tomorrow and appears with a private individual, it must be assumed by law by its legal owner until proven otherwise. So this could lead to a very difficult situation. [[9.50]] However, what we do know, and this may also give us some hope about the motion before us, is that, among other things, the Archives of Budapest also contacted the EMMI and made countless amendments to the proposal. I very much hope that these amendments, and I would say once again that these technical amendments will find open ears and will be incorporated into the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the floor after the main speaker's round. [[There's no signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the rapporteur, Congressman Kósa... [[For signal:]] who indicates that he wants to react. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-30-15	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I have some comments on what has been said in this debate. The first is that three of us are the authors of the bill, but János Halász is not the State Secretary of the EMMI. Former Secretary of State two cycles ago [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: I'm sorry.]] But he's not your secretary of state today. As I understand it, no one was arguing with the fact that a significant volume of public documents is in the hands of tens of thousands of people, otherwise, without legislation allowing this to happen today. It's a simple fact. So once again, the current regulation is that it cannot be in private hands, except for the one case where the individual is subject to the public document. So, I'll just give you an example: in the case of a donation of property, the donor receives a copy of the donor's public document, then, by definition, he is the rightful owner of the public document. In all other cases, no one can legally own a public document today and not an authentic instrument, but a public document. But the fact is, we know a lot of cases that public documents are privately owned. Several people rightly said that, yes, history has developed in Hungary that during our thousand years of statehood, the public documents have been looted, stolen and destroyed, from Germans, Turks, again Austrians, Germans, Russians, not to mention various civil wars and revolutions, when, in bad faith, in good faith, political intentions, profit-making, others, taking advantage of the confusion, going into the Hungarian archives, not only the national archives, but there were archives throughout the country, and quite simply some of the documents were taken away. The last such event, once again, was the period after the events of October 1956. Therefore, the date of 1st January, in all respects, is a watershed, and since then there has been no such event in Hungary. It is also true that the regulation, after 1 January, has allowed anyone to obtain a legitimate public document only in exceptional cases. Therefore, there is no misunderstanding or problem with the application of my proposal here, if a person has a public document created after 1 January, then we assume that he was involved illegally and that he must therefore prove that it was legitimate. And now, by virtue of the law passed by Parliament, the state recognises that they have come out of the archives, and we now acknowledge that they have become private property. It is very important here that it is clear that the current situation is that they cannot be privately owned. So everyone who owns it under the current law has the wrongful possession of it. That's the situation today. Consequently, whoever is aware of this is not aware of it, because he knows that it should be submitted according to the provisions, or if the archives or the authorities are aware of this, he will take it, take it, and return it to the archives. So today, which is why I say in consultation, I have done this myself, with professional organisations, that there can be tens of thousands of authentic documents in private hands, which cannot be found conceptually, because everyone knows that it could not be in private hands. So my proposal is to sort out this situation, and I know very well that part of my proposal is against a significant number of archivists. They say that it is the property of the Hungarian state, it has never been any other way, it was no different during dualism, and it was no different between the two world wars. So for whatever reason the material was removed from the archives, why would the Hungarian State give up what is its rightful property? Why should you admit to the documents you got out of the process, whatever intent they took it? It couldn't have been taken! Obviously, if there is a Romanian occupation in Budapest, it is understandable that part of the archivists save what is salvageable; when the Nazis came, it was understandable that they saved what was salvageable; when the communists came, Detto. So there were many takeovers in Hungary, which the archives and the official documents suffered. Especially when you were playing with your life, if you didn't remove the right documents or add them to the file. Think of the Jewish persecutions, think of the communist revenges. So this is the explanation for what my fellow Member Varga asked me. The government supports this proposal, I thank you very much, but there is a debate on this because the profession is not at all uniform in that it should acknowledge that these documents which were created before 1 January. I'm just saying, okay, let's not admit it, but after all, Taiwan doesn't acknowledge the existence of popular China, but apparently there's still a country and a half billion. So you can face stupidity, but I don't advise anyone. Let's face reality and try to sort this out, save what's salvageable. Because these documents have an origin abroad, and today there is no man on the Hungarian border who finds out from the collection what the scribble is, which is the signature of the English King's autograph, which, by the way, starts at £50,000 at an English auction, because there are maniac collectors. But this is our treasure, our document, it came from us. You can say that anyway, and I understand part of the archivist profession, the other part of it is realistic, and it says, let's see how such a case can help at least make these documents known, because why should we give up what is ours anyway, is legally ours, and it has always been ours to say so by the staff of the archives. You're right, by the way. And he doesn't have to be pragmatic, because he represents a professional position, and he says, yes, he does, come back and come back. So it won't, certainly it won't, because there are passionate collectors in Hungary, too, and there are some people in Hungary who find things from legacy, inheritance, or even in a junk market that they buy for 2 thousand forints, and the value of their ideas is immeasurable in itself, but, let's say, at an auction, the bidding starts at 500,000 forints. Otherwise, there is a tax loss in this sense, because after the auction, the auctioneers pay taxes, not now, because there is only the black market, nothing else. [[10.00]] In this regard, this explains the fact that this is a proposal from its representatives. As legislation, we can be pragmatic. By the way, the archival profession and the government say that otherwise there is an orderly legal state, but we cannot enforce it. So there is no discussion here, and, of course, this is a proposal that does not belong to the government, which is why it does not work with anything, the government has not adopted this proposal. He supports it from the outside if Parliament does, but the Secretary of State doesn't want to say, and it's understandable that there's a document in every respect, historical, culturally significant, it belongs to the State Archives, it was taken from there at some point, there's no way of knowing when, especially if it's an Arpad-era document, sometimes there's one on the black market, it's our place. Why should I represent the recognition of the ownership of others against the law? Parliament can say that, because Parliament is otherwise able to represent it as the supreme power organisation. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal for this very reason, once again, in consultation with the archivists. By the way, they are not the only ones in the profession, I would add, the circle of stakeholders is much more extensive than that. By the way, I met with a legacy owner who said that there was a legacy document here, which he thought was worth the treasure, that he could not legalize, because it is not possible today, but in absolute good faith, he would also be happy to do so with a family aspect, to register it, that there should be researchable, important documents among them. I am not saying that we will change the world, it is natural, and that is not what Hungary's fate depends on. It's a small thing, but to help us find our national heritage, our national treasures, I think it's a good cause, and we realize that history has been the way it is, and a significant part of the archives or archives have disappeared, sometimes even rather shockingly important documents. I would like to say that we do not deprive people of their property, because we want to acknowledge it now, so this is a misunderstanding that Mr Varga has said that we are robbing people of their property. We don't do that. That it is enough to encourage the announcement to the state, as I have said, that will be decided by time, in consultation not only with archivists, but also with antiquarians, collectors, private archives who said that the collector is a man who wants to show what he has. If we give this opportunity without the risk of the State taking it away for various reasons, even if it is aware of the regulation, then it is likely that it will be shown, because the procedure in this sense is the most peaceful of all. The owner will turn to the archives, the archives will look at it within 30 days, evaluate it, and whether it is of lasting value to be protected, or not, on this basis you can make a purchase offer, but in 30 days you will definitely return it to the original owner, only the document is digitized and registered, can be researched. Do you have enough resources? Now, we are about to submit the budget to Parliament. I will certainly fight in my own way to have the resources to buy some of our documents. The previous attitude of the Hungarian state is shocking, by the way. In the 1970s, the entire Andrássy estate was offered to the Hungarian State for purchase, fantastic records. He didn't have to, he was just a count, said the Communist-led Hungarian state. That's how smart the comrades were. By the way, this went for gold on the Austrian market, as it had a lot of Austrian aspects. These are also the case, so the Hungarian state has not always acted with good economic care in these cases either. The concern that Congressman Zoltán Varga has expressed is that the demand will be opened that the public documents created after 1 January 1957 can also be held in private: we will not open this opportunity, we will not open this interpretation, and let us stand together against all such efforts, and let us say that we draw the line here, and not elsewhere. Overall, thank you very much for your comments and comments. I hope that the honourable Members and factions will also support my proposal in voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act and Act CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, on Cultural Strategy Institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural-related laws. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15988. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Fekete, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-17	Mr President, Dear House, Since the previous proposal and this proposal are close to each other, and the questions addressed to me concern both areas, please allow me to give my answers in part in the context of the discussion of this proposal before the Expo and then in part in the summary. One question I can answer immediately before the expo is why we are not talking about a single presentation on the two issues. The answer is very clear to me, although Mr President has not told me about this, about its historical nature, but it is clear that the previous proposal is a citizens' initiative, a citizens' initiative, a bottom-up question, which Mr. It's natural for the Cultural Secretary of State to take this case. Dear House, Technological development and innovation affect all sectors of society, creating new challenges and requirements. The functioning of the State itself is no exception to this process. At the same time, development cannot be self-serving, it is our duty to bring it to the service of society as a whole, to preserve and strengthen our national culture. In its spirit, the 1995 LXVI on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act and Act CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, the Cultural Strategy Institutions and the amendment of certain cultural-related laws. T/15988 on the amendment of Act T/1598. The proposal aims to create a legal background for the wider application of the integrated legislative system and to name the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund as a member of the National Cultural Council. Ladies and Gentlemen, In short, the Integrated Legislative System covers the entire legislative preparation and opinion process in a closed system, from the preparation of the first versions to the submission of opinions and the presentation of the proposal. This system supports the legislative process effectively, in line with today's expectations. The IJR will be implemented as a priority project for the operational programmes for public administration and public service development, as decided by the government, and will now be effectively implemented by those involved in the legislative process. At the same time, the potential of IJR goes beyond its current scope. At present, it operates as a specialised system in support of the legislative process, in addition to which individual documents are recorded, recorded and retained in their own file management system. Through the development of IJR, the legal background of which is T/15988. The aim is to create a legislative proposal, from the establishment of the entire course of the documents resulting from the preparation of the legislation process, from their registration to the transmission to the publication in the Hungarian Gazette, until their preservation, and finally until the transfer to the Hungarian National Archives. [[10.10]] Through development, responsibility for each document remains with the bodies which set up it, which are involved in the legislative process, but their management, registration and access to, and provision for, those who are entitled to it will be simplified. The technological conditions for the efficient and safe implementation of all of this have been granted to us today. Development is not only an option but also a general requirement in order to facilitate the effective functioning of the State. Through the development of the IJR, the management of the public documents generated in the legislative process can be effectively achieved, and their electronic archives will also be preserved for future researchers. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, the National Cultural Council and the National Cultural Fund are two of the key, perhaps the most important organisations to strengthen and support our national culture. The National Cultural Council is CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, on cultural strategic institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws. It provides the professional basis for the uniform strategic governance of the cultural sectors. At the same time, the National Cultural Fund is a determining institution for financing Hungarian cultural life in Hungary and beyond. Thanks to its existence for three decades, unique knowledge and preparedness are concentrated here, and its permanent and temporary colleges provide insight into the most diverse areas of culture. It is therefore appropriate that the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund (NEC) be directly involved in the work of the National Cultural Council. Thank you for your attention. I ask for the support of this House. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-30-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the bill presented and outlined in its main pillars by the Secretary of State, which has two main elements. Both have been examined by our group and are proposed for adoption by this House. One is the creation of a legal background for the development of an integrated legislative system, and the other is the designation of the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund, who manages the operational management of the National Cultural Fund, among the members of the National Cultural Council. Let us look at the first of these, the integrated legislative system. The integrated legislative system covers the entire legislative preparation and consultation process in a single and closed system, from the preparation of the first versions to opinions and submission to the presentation. This system is effective in supporting the legislative process, but it is justified to further develop and modernise it in order to improve its functioning. Moreover, the possibilities of an integrated legislative system go beyond its current scope. At present, it operates as a specialised system in support of the legislative process, in addition to which individual documents are also recorded, recorded and retained in their own file management system. In recent years, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Government Office, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Hungarian National Archives and the Hungarian Gazette Lap- és Könyvkiadó Kft. with its participation, developed the concept of further development of the integrated legislative system. Through the development of the IJR, the legal background of which is to be established by this bill, the entire course of life of the documents resulting from the legislative preparation process can be achieved within this specialized system; just as Minister of State has guided the process, from the first concepts through the first amendments, until the publication of the Hungarian Gazette, and at the end until the last stage to the delivery to the Hungarian National Archives. In order to combine the specificities of the integrated legislative system and the activities it supports with the reduction of administrative burdens with the legal requirements of document management, it is therefore necessary and necessary to support the further development and further development of the current system. The other subject, which our group also supports, is that the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund should be named among the members of the National Cultural Council in the future. Today, the National Cultural Council and the National Cultural Fund are the two most important formal organisations to strengthen and support our national culture. The National Cultural Council provides, for the purposes of the Act on the National Cultural Council, the Cultural Strategy Institutions and the amendment of certain cultural-related laws, the professional basis for the uniform strategic governance of the cultural sectors. The members of the board include such high-ranking state organizations as the National Theatre Nonprofit Private Company or the Hungarian State Opera House, the Budapest Opera Theatre, the Müpa Budapest, the Hungarian National Museum, the Museum of Fine Arts, the National Széchényi Library, the Hungarian National Archives, and I could continue the line for a long time. It is therefore appropriate that the National Cultural Fund should be represented by its Vice-President in addition to the leaders of the institutions that influence this decisive cultural life. After all, the National Cultural Fund is a determining institution for the financing of Hungarian cultural life in Hungary and beyond. Thanks to its existence for three decades, unique knowledge and preparedness are concentrated here and, through its permanent and temporary colleges, it has a view of the most diverse areas of culture, both in Hungary and beyond our borders. The president of the NKA is appointed by the Minister for Culture, and his vice-president is appointed by the Minister, the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, for a maximum period of four years. In order to be directly involved in the work of the National Cultural Council through the vice-president of the National Cultural Fund representing a dominant Hungarian culture, this is in the interest of all of us, of Hungarian culture, and it is in the interest of the Hungarian cultural community to live within our borders and beyond our borders, and the goal that the government has set in its eyes to ensure that Hungarian culture is of value, to be protected, to be protected, that it can fulfil its vocation. This is why our group is proposing the adoption of the second major issue, and at the same time we offer the adoption of the whole law with respect to this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dawn Juhász applauds.]]
u2021-04-30-20	Thank you. I give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2021-04-30-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The T/15988 in front of us. On the basis of the legislative proposal No.3 the public service body must fulfil its task of preparing legislation and then through the integrated legislative system. This integrated legislative system is shortened and IJR consists of several sub-schemes. Such is GovLex, which supports government preparatory work, such as LocLex, which will help local government work, and ParLex, a system known and used by my fellow Members of Parliament, which we also use when submitting legislative proposals or proposals for decisions. [[10.20]] What is new is that the system will be in line with the National Legislative Act, so it will be much easier to draft, for example, a bill. This system therefore greatly facilitates the work of legislators because it creates the possibility of better regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for the state to function well, it is an important criterion that the legislation should be consolidated, understandable and clear to all, as this is the only way to ensure voluntary compliance. The proposal also contains technical specifications, which can also be agreed on. In addition, the legislative proposal, as the speakers before me rightly mentioned, also provides that the National Cultural Council should be a member of the National Cultural Fund in the future. I also consider this amendment to be eligible, which is why, overall, I can tell you that it is T/15988. I will propose a legislative amendment to the Jobbik fraction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-30-22	Thank you. I now address Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we have two issues to discuss here on the amendment. One is the integrated legislative system and the other is the National Cultural Fund. The integrated legislative system is intended to facilitate the quality legislative process. The integrated legislative system is a system of experts to standardise existing, island-based or loosely matched systems and applications for the legislative process by means of a single data storage mechanism and data representation, thus keeping legislation fully closed, from the state of the first draft to the publication in the Hungarian Gazette. The bill sets out the regulations necessary for its implementation in connection with the system's sharpness. In the context of the creation of a new legislative regime, specifically designed for the integrated legislative system and considered in several respects, the integrated legislative system should be defined as a separate professional system in the Law on authentic instruments, the Public Archives and the Protection of Private Archives. The bill also deals with the National Cultural Fund and proposes an amendment to the National Cultural Council, the Cultural Strategy Institutions and the amendment of certain cultural-related laws to the members of the National Cultural Council. The National Cultural Fund is a decisive and important institution for the financing of Hungarian cultural life in Hungary and beyond. Thanks to its existence for three decades, unique knowledge and preparedness are concentrated here, and its permanent and temporary colleges provide insight into the most diverse areas of culture. These amendments are important, so KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-24	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We are here at the second item on the agenda, which, in fact, amends similar legislation, it is true that it can be understood, in this sense, that it is separate from the first point, on a completely different subject. I said there that obviously our first agenda was tabled as a separate motion for representatives, and this was a government referral. On the previous item, indeed, János Halász was the former Secretary of State of the EMMI, and perhaps he might still have received a title in the previous article. I was only suggesting, obviously, that the two proposals could have been interpreted in a unified structure. But let's not get lost in the details here. I think about the concrete proposal that it was obviously then going through the appropriate conciliation processes, and it also contains a number of clarifications and forward-looking things that could even be supported. I am thinking of the proposals for an integrated legislative system. By the way, I do not see much debate here either about the fact that this proposal also makes the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund a member of the National Cultural Council. Adam Steinmetz, who was before me, also gave his support, and I think that there will be no very big debate in this. I would like to put one aspect on the table very briefly, and obviously my next opposition colleague, Zoltán Varga, will be talking about it, so I may as well tell you. Here, with regard to the history of the integrated legislative system, perhaps all my fellow Members and I could think about the fact that, four years ago, a system called ParLex has actually been in place, with many advantages and some incomprehensible disadvantages, because to date, we have a lot of paper-based work to do here, especially in a situation where there is a Covid epidemic, where there has been innovation in many places that can be carried out from a distance, without a personal presence, or even part of the meetings, so I think that these four years may not be filled with only positive elements. So a system that costs this much, which costs billions of forints, could be more effective in supporting the work of Members and legislation. So I wanted to put this on the table in parentheses in this debate. All in all, therefore, the material itself is a government referral, we assume that a significant part of it has undergone an appropriate conciliation process. We hope that it will be in its final form that it can be widely supported and that we will also be answered in the detailed debate. Thank you.
u2021-04-30-26	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-27	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to my fellow Member, László Varga, for the promotion. Indeed, for me, what really makes me think a little bit, is what many people have already said here: the integrated legislative system in the proposed bill. I mean, let's see what this is all about. In a decision of 2019, the Government ordered the introduction of the IJR, i.e. the integrated legislative system, in a live plant, from the beginning of August 2020. There the objective they declared was to ensure that the whole legislative process, from government preparation to publication, could be implemented in a single, closed IT system. According to the resolution, the government will have to submit the bill to the Parliament using the IJR. So far, it's clear and clear, so if this man here knows so much about this story, he can just say yes, it's an important thing, it has to be in one piece, and it's really good to have one of these. But we do know, and Congressman Varga also said, and it is true that for the fourth year here in Parliament, the IT system supporting legislation has been in place, called ParLex. Many of my fellow Members here, and indeed everyone in the government, know this system, and know that, indeed, at times people have shed crocodile tears when they use it. But it's a functioning system with your little flaws. And we know that, and I'm just assuming, because I really don't know the exact prices in this story, that the Parliamentary Office probably spent hundreds of millions of forints on developing this system, and it seems, otherwise, that with the introduction of this new system, and then, here in parentheses, I would once again confirm that ParLex has lived four years, so with the introduction of the new IJR, the National Assembly will switch to a completely new IT system, which otherwise has a budget and we can absolutely say that more than 4 billion forints. What can be said is that a complete IT system, which was introduced four years ago, is being trashed by the government and the Parliament's Office, as is that something in this story is not completely round. [[10.30]] You get the feeling that they're trying to cover up waste by the heads of the office. In the Directorate-General's Information on the introduction of IJR, published at the beginning of last summer, it is claimed that ParLex will be integrated into the IJR as a subsystem. Unfortunately, however, it seems, otherwise, at least to us, that this is far from the case, because, for example, the author of ParLex is no longer applicable in the new system. The introduction of the new IT system, according to the original plans, as I said earlier in my introduction, would have taken place last August, and would have been rebutted or confirmed, if this information was not good, then employees of the office and even the factions were also taught, and it was here that it was a completely different approach, a different system with a different process than ParLex. A letter from the Speaker of the House was then dated on 15 August, in which it was already informed that the system would only function fully after 31 December 2020; however, here we can see very well that the wording itself is a little foggy, as they were afraid to give an exact date. The current bill was then submitted, which is what we see as a basis for the sharp application of the system being set a year later on 1 August 2021. I must add that, seeing the past of this system, its recovery, there is no one who can be sure of that. The Bureau's been testing the system for six months, we know that. According to the information received from them, it is a type error, for example, that external legislation cannot be properly referred to in the system, and sometimes it is not recognised otherwise that the legislative editing stations differ between sending and publishing, or that the entry into force of the Annex cannot be set, and there are even fundamental errors in the system that the system has not applied the adjustment of the correct structural units or the indication of a regular list. However, obviously, when it comes to it, I will act fairly when I mention the positives of the system, because they are: it is because it integrates local government legislation, which also helps the drafting and drafting of municipal regulations, the production of the uniform structures of the amendments and the related implementation of the publication of municipal regulations. Experience is that the ParLex system significantly facilitates the legislative process, and we are all aware of that, but since the system could not manage several legal solutions, such as the numbering of large codes, the possibility of submitting in paper remains. This is also what my fellow Member Varga has also said, that in many cases this parallelity exists, which is everything, but not to facilitate work. What we can see is that this practice has led the government to live even more often than would have been justified. I am absolutely sure that a much cheaper solution than this 4 billion HUF could have been found. Let's just say that the ParLex system, which was already functioning, seemed to be much more economical, otherwise it could be used, perhaps some child diseases could no longer be called at the end of the fourth year, but with some shortcomings, the government did not choose this path. Basically, we're throwing out a fresh, four-year-old finished system, and a completely new system, and I have to add, in practical solutions, engine and other applications, they've decided to set up a completely new system to re-learn. All from 4 billion forints. Obviously, this is when you think about what it's all about. We see what we live in. We know that, and I do not want to tell you here many times this week, you have tried to deny it, but in fact, the questions that affect the Hungarian population, the numbers of unemployment, the situation of pensioners, the fact that we actually have the worst data, otherwise, we have one of the worst data sources in terms of government or state aid for workers who have lost their jobs in terms of the epidemic, and I must say that I apologize to everyone who now takes this to their heart, that it is obvious and it is very obvious that the government is never saving on itself. The government prefers to save money, and now let me talk a little bit back on the people on the eastern ends, on those unfortunate, vulnerable people who have a problem with what they might be able to go to the Adriatic, because we know very well from the Prime Minister that the Hungarian people are not calm, if they don't see the sea once a year, they don't have such problems. They have simple living problems. Yet it seems that, instead of helping them and saving himself, the government is getting on this horse again. We are throwing out a relatively well-functioning system, which might have been improved with some reflection and redesign, and without any special remorse, we are bringing in a new project of HUF 4 billion. We need to re-teach everyone and everything about this. We don't know how this is gonna work. We know that this should work long ago, otherwise, as planned, and it should work well, but it doesn't work well even in the test facility. After all, it has to be said that this week, in a number of proposals, it was possible to see that any project that the government could take away a lot of was important, and that the Mészáros Lőrincek would be able to benefit from, from which the dividend of the Prime Minister's dear father could gain billions, and that his son-in-law could buy a new car, but helping people in need is not important. It is therefore doubtful to me that this system is necessary at all, and this is nothing else but the usual and well-known practice of the government. Well, let's see what's behind it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-28	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members, when the main speaker group is finished, that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-30-29	Mr President, Dear House, We live in a digital world. In all areas of culture, in all areas of public administration, we must constantly renew our systems on a daily basis. I have the opportunity and opportunity to compare from time to time with the V4 cultural ministers, where we stand in this system, in this competition, whether we are on the right track. With my Czech, Slovak, Polish colleagues, we can check this on a daily basis. I must point out that in the field of cultural life, we are doing well on the issue of digitalisation. In time, we realized that we had to shift our possessions, our operation, our business from the paper system to the paperless system. This is part of the present proposal, and as I listened to the Member's comments, I gave instructions to the staff of the Ministry, and I very much hope that by the time you get home, the answer will be there for you to provide detailed information to the Member. After all, in your comment, if I remember correctly, you mentioned six times that some kind of system would be thrown out. We haven't been able to bring you up to speed. There's no way we can get any system thrown out. This is an ongoing development, a continuous improvement of an existing system, precisely in order to make the crocodile tears you mentioned less appear on your face. If we develop it, if we correct it, if we integrate it, or if we keep going, it will be better to use it. But this is not a luxury, it is the basic expectation of our daily lives, precisely in order to make the normal life of our fellow citizens in the East work better. [[10.40]] I will go to Békéscsaba from here, so if the fate of any of our fellow citizens in the eastern part of the country is important, then it is very important to me. And I believe that if we can manage a more efficient process in the field of digitisation in the administration of the state, the beneficiaries will be our fellow citizens who are affected by the fact that we were able to function more effectively and more quickly. That is why I ask this House to support this proposal. And I would like to take this opportunity to answer the other question, Mr Adam Steinmetz, to the question of the notary, because there is a perfectly normal procedure. If this House adopts a law, then the Secretary-General of Culture will first pass it on to the profession through a well-functioning communication system. We are very proud of him, as we are in contact with more than 300 institutional leaders at an online conference on a weekly basis. This is unique in Europe for the communication network that the cultural secretary of state can inform its heads of institutions. But indeed, there are cases where it is not enough to inform the profession of certain events, but also to inform the general public, and to inform those involved in that matter. Therefore, I welcome the suggestion made by Congressman Steinmetz that, if he accepts the House's proposal to amend the laws relating to archives and authentic instruments, we should make a road show, provide the information to those people who may indeed have such documents, so that they can come out of the drawers, become researchable, digitizable... and there is a very serious difference again. So if it were just for a document to be bought by the state or not to buy it, it would be a different level than if, in this way, we had the opportunity to digitize it first, to know the contents of it, to make it public, and then to decide that there is money to buy that paper, we want it, we have the right to buy it, or we can go to the free market if you let it. But it is important for us to know the contents of it, to be ours, to be ours, to be ours. So, once again, we are in a digitisation process, and I really thank the Member for his proposal. We will do everything we can to ensure that this information reaches a very wide range of social groups. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is XLII 1994 on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15984. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is part of the measures to achieve the objectives of the national export strategy adopted in 2019. Over the past years, we have made great efforts to create complex incentives and frameworks for business development and job creation in Hungary. Similarly, a complex set of measures and assistance is needed for companies offering exportable products and services. Our priority is also to support foreign investment by domestic companies, which enables the government sector to effectively help domestic entrepreneurs enter the foreign market in order to acquire new markets. On the basis of market needs, we are now proposing an amendment that reflects the practice of foreign investments and makes it clear that the investment can be financed and secured even if the investment is not carried out by a domestic entity but by a foreign undertaking owned by it. In many cases, the legislation of that country does not allow the Hungarian investor to invest directly in that country, in order for the Hungarian company to establish a legal entity in the country concerned, which also carries out the investment directly. In addition, the bill contains technical amendments aimed at ensuring compliance of the Exim Act with domestic and EU legislation, thereby amending the conditions for accounting with the central budget and clarifying the obligation to notify to the Union in the case of investment insurance in accordance with EU legislation and amending the conditions for the notification of managers. On that basis, I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The government's main objective is to restart the economy in difficulty due to the Covid-19 epidemic, to support Hungarian businesses and to protect Hungarian jobs. In this, we, the Fidesz Group, have given the government all possible support, and will continue to do so. Hungarian companies not only operate in Hungary, but also abroad. Hungarian Export-Import Bank provides assistance to the Hungarian State through Private Works Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Limited Company, which is regulated by the Exim Act. It is natural that the legislation has passed since its creation 17 In the year, due to changes in the economic environment, it was necessary to amend or clarify from time to time. This is what is happening now when this bill is presented and negotiated. According to the proposal just submitted, Article 1 of the Exim Act. Paragraph 5a of Article 5a would add a new point 5 in which a new concept, the foreign investment of Hungarian investors, is defined by the legislator. This is because the Exim Act does not currently determine which transactions may fall within the scope of the foreign investment of Hungarian investors. The amendment proposal was drawn up on the basis of a consultation with the companies concerned, thus reflecting current foreign investment practices and practices. Often, the local legal environment in the country does not allow Hungarian companies to invest directly. In such a case, the Hungarian company must set up a subsidiary in the country concerned, which can already carry out the investment directly. The proposed amendment makes it clear that the investment can also be financed, can be ensured if the investment is not carried out by a domestic entity but by a foreign undertaking owned by it. The present amendment of the law 2. § 2 of the Exim Act contains technical clarification. Since EU State aid rules do not always require notification of the measure to the European Commission, harmonisation of the rules of the Exim Act can be considered a step. Eximbank Zrt. and MEHIB Zrt. acting on behalf of the Hungarian State on recovery of claims following budgetary calls. The amount of claims received has already been eligible for a commission on successful recovery. As, in practice, recovery costs are high in terms of recovery and lawyering costs, Art. In addition to the commission on successful recovery, the Commission's proposal set out in Section 3 of this Article would also be entitled to a reduction in the cost of the bank and the insurer, in proportion to its certified expenditure, after partly or completely unsuccessful recovery and in the case of transactions in which the State guarantee has not taken place as a result of its activities. The amending proposal was adopted in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules Instead of the two working days currently determined, we recommend an eight-day period in each legal relationship for both the MNB procedure and the acquisition of appointment documents from the person concerned. [[10.50]] If, on the basis of the justification provided above, we accept that, in addition to the commission on successful transactions, the cost of the less successful transactions is reduced in proportion to the cost, not only in the Exim Act, but also in Article 26 (1) (a) of the Exim Act. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 must also be recorded, so not only in an earlier stage, but also in accordance with the proposal of Article 26. In paragraph 2 of this Article, too. The technical amendment to the legislation can also be seen as replacing the previous omission and removing the reference to the act on reinsurance undertakings repealed from 1 January 2016 from the Exim Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, with the adoption of the proposal before us, we can help restart the economy that is in a difficult situation due to the Covid-19 epidemic, creating a more transparent legislative environment, so I would also ask my honourable left-wing colleagues to keep this in mind when a decision is made. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to say that we will accept and support the proposed bill, because the objectives that it has set for itself and the goals that our group considers very important in terms of resuscitation and resuscitation of the economy are supported by this law and contribute to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-35	Mr President, Dear House, Although my fellow lead speaker, Mrs Fidesz, did not address me, as she spoke only of left-wing parties, I would like to state as your right-wing opposition that the professional comments that will be made here on our part will be made by the two Presidents of the opposition which may be closest to the area. As chairman of the Enterprise Development Committee, I would like to state as a kind of departure or foundation that I have looked very forward to the transformation of Eximbank's operation. In the period since 2010, I saw this institution as an opportunity, and in the operational transformation I saw that the Hungarian export volume could finally reach the historical level it would otherwise be destined for, and unfortunately it has not succeeded in the last 30 years. Then we know what the flow chart was about: a scandal followed, and I feel that the institution's goodwill has been eroded in such an amazing way that it is now a very big challenge for us to keep a debate on it professionally. The proposal before us is practically moving in two directions. On the one hand, in the case of foreign companies, so a Hungarian investor is trying to facilitate investments and investments in the company he owns abroad, which should be facilitated, stated, and would not be a problem in itself. What I do not understand is that, when Minister Szijjártó announces that in Mongolia, with the help of Eximbank, we are making an 18 billion-dollar investment, then how can my fellow Member of the Danube connect it to the protection of Hungarian jobs. So I am genuinely interested in the logical figure or algorithm in your mind, that when we go to Mongolia for 18 billion, it is possible that in a sensible industry, but still in the middle of the crisis period, and in that month 56 000 jobs in Hungary will be lost, then this envelope will go to the right place, and I am sure that it will benefit most from the Hungarian national interests. According to our group, this is the backstabbing of the interests of Hungarian taxpayers, and we do not even rule out that there is a peaceful historical era when we may be more affordable, and in this area or in other exotic regions, such an investment makes sense, but we do not see the return that would bring Hungary a kind of outstanding miracle. So this package now facilitates the participation of Hungarian investors abroad, and on the other hand, it seeks to settle the various non-recoverable claims or collections, so that only the Hungarian taxpayers will be able to withstand the damage they incur. I am very surprised that there is a great deal of attention here to settle the collections, but at the same time they did not pay attention to this in the case of our fellow countrymen living here, who are not businessmen, do not have billions to invest it in exotic areas, but we are talking about people who live here with us as minimum pensioners, minimum wage earners in the middle of the emergency, and the executioners reach 33 percent and 50 percent bans every month. Opponents, both left and right, have repeatedly said that this should not be done, that a truly self-respecting national government would not tolerate such a thing against its own fellow nations, and you have been asked this question; you have not dared to articulate any reaction in this matter, and you have not dared to say why you are unwilling to concentrate on the most difficult situations in order to impose a credit moratorium. That wouldn't be enough to shake the national economy. We oppositionists think more of your pact policy in the background. A pact was also written with the EBRD, and it is clear that the same agreement was made with the executive staff, according to which you do not want to harm their business interests. Here, however, as regards Eximbank, the costs of unsuccessful recovery will be borne by the Hungarian taxpayers. That's an amazing and incorrect attitude. I'm sure it's not a national attitude, it's certainly not part of a patriot economic policy. Colonial governments tend to behave like this under Colonial government, betraying the interests of their own taxpayers, and favoring a narrow oligarch circle. So I'm amazed at you! I have to say, when the congresswoman spoke about the protection of jobs, I would be a great supporter if it were not just a microscopic programme that you did in Hungary, because 80 percent of the wages that were lost should have been replaced in all sectors, compared with 5 percent of the jobs you have been able to provide only some measurable wage replacement. On the move to Austria, Germany, 152025 percent is the same, so unfortunately Hungary cannot be proud of this proportion. At the same time, if someone has lost their job, and it is already half a million people who have been in this situation since the beginning of the epidemic and crisis, they have met with Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system. And let's go a little further: in a few days, according to professional law analysis, the eviction moratorium will expire in five days, and they will start to spin again, Mr. Secretary of State, the days that will lead to eviction in Hungary, even in mass sizes. What kind of national governance is it that upholds this in the middle of an epidemiological emergency? So I understand the fine speeches on the protection of jobs here, but they couldn't put a fraction of what the most fortunate neighbouring countries could put on the table. Meanwhile, they are able to support oligarchs, billionaires, and they also pass on the costs of unsuccessful recovery to the Hungarian taxpayers, while the enforcer can claim the right or wrongful claim for those in the most difficult situation. This is not a patriot economic policy, fellow Members. This is a colonial level of economic policy, and if we add that the Hungarian GDP data is determined by the brochures of the current German car manufacturers, seasonal offers, and you invest in everything, and even if we add that the volume of non-refundable subsidies granted to multi-company companies was tripled in comparison to the pre-2010 period, and before 2010, I scolded the governments at that time in order to exaggerate the non-refundable support of the multi-company companies, there was therefore a thousand non-refundable companies where they gave a 27-year wage weight as non-refundable grants, while the multi-company undertakes to keep the job for one-and-a-half years, the Hungarian company's reduced loan maximum, in good cases if the intermediary bank decides that it is creditworthy or that it is debiting its property. So this is the overall picture, not a patriot economic policy, and in the meantime, even though I say that a well-functioning Eximbank would be desperately needed. What we are talking about here is that Exim's mission is to support Hungarian companies' presence in export markets and to increase their competitiveness. It's a beautiful goal. Let's just look at the circle for whom it applies. What we see is that only the news of earlier years is that Lőrinc Mészáros's starch factory, Andrej Babiš's food oil company and WHB also received a preferential Covid loan from Eximbank. Our news is: Caribbean offshore company, according to an internal document, the state bank has given money for a security-related real estate deal. Mr Secretary, I do not want to judge these matters, so that you do not think that I want to engage in a professional lawyer's debate or judge them, but however, I respect the independence of the branches of power, I just want to give a little bit of a look at the mood around the institution and around the loans that have been issued. [[11.00]] With an investment of 19.5 billion, Hungary is investing in the construction of a gas power plant in Ghana. Once again, this might even be a debateable time of peace, but in recent years, the Hungarian economy has not been such as to see the net return that would have made it worth giving up the interests of Hungarian taxpayers. Let us move beyond the fact that MOL, MET, OTP, Savings Bank and Eximbank are also engaged in transactions with the International Investment Bank that have sometimes knocked out the collateral in the press. After all, my favourite thing is that we will create new jobs in Mongolia with more than 18 billion forints. It's inexplicable in the middle of a crisis. Let's look at some of the operational elements we can recognize in our home space. Here, the more well-known loans also include the TV purchase contribution of Vajna. One of my favorites is Garanchi's Kopasi Dam. As an Óbudai, I am a little sensitive about similar investments, since we have a change ban on the Roman coast, otherwise in a fortunate way, which was then lifted. An investment in a residential park was authorised in an interesting way, and within a month, I recall that a change ban was re-established; it was lifted until the investment of an oligarch near the government in the construction of a residential park could otherwise have been authorised by a gross investment near the shore. What I'm saying is that with regard to an investment in Garanchi's Kopasi dam, they can't convince me that the taxpayers here are also indirectly, but whatever help they have to offer. That's why they say, Mr. Secretary, a lot of professionals, that Eximbank has lost its Eximbank character. So it carries out activities in an alternative portfolio, about like the National Bank of Hungary, where there would be a core activity, which would be very important, compared to the various acquisitions of art and paintings, it is possible that more time will be given than the basic portfolio. Obviously, it's just an assumption. I don't want to go to the tabloid level, either, that it may require holistic soul massage, future analysis and earplug treatment in the hotel that taxpayers indirectly support for enlargement development. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But I do see that the EUR 52 million loan, which was allocated to the Kopasi dam construction project, would certainly have been better used elsewhere. Once again, Exim's mission is to help Hungarian companies enter export markets; we have already talked about increasing competitiveness and the lack of it. The main reason why they should consider the various expenses of Exim is because, according to the published management report, there was a much greater loss in the organisation's life than in the past, and I see that in the past, the bulk of the income was the result of interest. I am not saying that Exim should operate in a profit-oriented way, not at all; otherwise it is written in all regulations and protocols, it is not profit-maximizing at all, but encouraging exports, and I agree with this basic objective. I do not see the Hungarian startups that could join this process at the right stage of the production chain, which could grow the region if necessary. Obviously, I do not expect the European market to be flooded by such hustlers here, but we would expect partial results in this area after 11 years. I would like to emphasise, Mr State Secretary, that the problem is not the direction of the amendment itself, although it is obviously disputed as regards recovery, as long as Hungarian citizens are under a tremendous burden in the same area. The first point of the amendment, to make it easier for Hungarian companies to appear on foreign markets, would even be eligible. The aura, the atmosphere, the climate that surrounds the entire institution, makes every intention to modify questionable. You might want to rebuild this whole thing from scratch, think about it, because right now, the story could still be saved. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-30-36	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Keep up the good work. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, lead speaker at KDNP, is next. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-37	Welcome, Mr President, and thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have pointed out, this amendment aims at three directions: an extension of the concept, a notification to the European Commission in the second respect, and the third important part is the obligation to recover. This definition is also an extension of definitions, as in the case of foreign investment by Hungarian investors, this amendment clarifies that the investment is considered to be a foreign investment by Hungarian investors if the investment is not carried out directly by a foreign enterprise owned by a foreign company in a foreign currency. So the Hungarian investment is only carried out indirectly. In line with the national export strategy, financing and insurance for foreign investment can be achieved by a wider range of entrepreneurs. With regard to the notification to the European Commission, it would not always be necessary, under EU state aid rules, to notify the European Commission of non-credit insurance and property insurance, for example in the case of so-called block exemption regulations. The Exim Act contains a corresponding amendment and clarification, and the recovery obligation is indeed a key part of it. Eximbank and MEHIB, following budgetary drawdowns, collect the claims on behalf of the Hungarian State on the basis of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Before the drawdowns, MEHIB shall take damage prevention and remediation measures to recover claims against the debtor, which, in the event of its success, the use of the ready-to-payer guarantee of the Hungarian State can be avoided, whether in whole or in part. Experience over the past period has shown that in many cases legal proceedings will be carried out in the course of the recovery obligation, which is mainly a substantial amount in arbitration proceedings. It may not be possible to recover capital claims from the debtor, but Eximbank and MEHIB may be charged a significant amount of recovery and legal costs, since they cannot waive claims because they have to act as agents of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment allows the central budget to contribute to the cost of the bank and the insurer's recovery costs in the event of unsuccessful recovery operations in the context of ex post accounts. Similarly, in the absence of a State guarantee due to the successful damage prevention and remediation activities of Eximbank and MEHIB. These amendments are important, so KDNP supports the proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-30-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now it's time for MSZP's lead speaker, Congressman László Varga. Here.
u2021-04-30-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the comments of my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpa, and I look forward to the comments of my fellow Member László Varju, because we have been here in connection with a lot of similar proposals, even in the middle of the night, and we have discussed the specific content and have often placed the proposals in a broader context. Dániel Z. Carpathian did the right thing. To discuss such a proposal, with such a title, that the start-up of the economy, when people are in a very difficult situation, lost their jobs; when there are still three months of unemployment benefits, although the MSZP has repeatedly suggested that we raise this for nine months, and that there should be a minimum of HUF 100,000; when, by the way, hundreds, thousands of people may be threatened with eviction in Hungary after the end of the eviction moratorium, it is certainly thought about such a proposal and its support. Of course, looking at the specific text, everyone could look at it and think about it, and I wrote a word on the top of my material: this is the word "trust" on the top of my material. So you can trust under this government, in this government cycle, that any proposal concerning Eximbank is formulated in accordance with the original goals, encourages Hungarian businesses, creates an export market for them, or is formulated for some other reason, well, that is obviously a fundamental issue. The truth is, I think we have now come to the point that the opposition's fractions really do not trust that they serve such purposes, regardless of party standing, as are the proposals made with regard to Exim. After 2010, Eximbank often financed investments and investments that were difficult to justify. This was not uncommonly reported by the media. These developments have often been linked to pro-government politicians, entrepreneurs, oligarchs. And if I'm gonna be very sophisticated, I'm gonna say there's a skeptical return on these investments. [[11.10]] So to expand these circles even more in this sense is certainly question-signed. Dániel Z. Carpathian may be right that we should start over and rebuild a system similar to the one that Eximbank originally should be, in line with the original goals. Unfortunately, I think that all my fellow Members can give examples from their immediate proximity, and my fellow Member before me has done so, and I am sure László Varju will also do things that we can give as a negative example in this respect. A lot of people know I'm from Miskolc, I always try to bring local cases into the Parliament, get answers to questions, and we have a case like this that is specifically related to the Eximbank, there's a case like this in Miskolc that's been waiting for a long time to be answered. It is well known that the heavy industry collapsed in Miskolc, Diósgyőr after the change of regime, and somehow always an emotional identification point when we talk about the factory, we talk about metallurgy. His absence is painful, and, in fact, in these 30 years, apart from a short period of time, which was about prosperity, whether in terms of metallurgy, was basically or not working or, in very difficult circumstances, was metallurgy in some form in Miskolc. Restarting this is a continuous topic, a continuous campaign issue, by the way, a continuous campaign topic for your candidates and specifically for the Diósgyőr district. In 2010, I think the Fidesz candidate had a role to play in promising to restart the metallurgy. By the way, by 2014 a foreign-based company, partly with eximbank credit, or part of it, took part in the campaign, to the groundbreaking stage of a mini steel plant that could partially solve the needs of our country of this type. It's an important thing. By the way, I agree with the specific case that we should move in this direction, be it a small steel plant, especially in the region where there are traditions of this issue. Obviously, the mini steel works here, especially professionals know this, relate to the length of the technological process, not necessarily to the volume of production, and in the past, obviously, steel works have been operating in our country with very different technology. In 14 we waited after the election to see what would become of it. We didn't hear much. We have heard that advances have been spent, but have not been realized, that this mini steel work has not started. In 2018, the third parliamentary election was where your candidate could make a campaign issue out of it. More groundbreakings, more promises. There is still the question of what is the situation with the former financing of Eximbank, a similar one in 2018 and 14 and we still do not see what the situation is. By the way, I am looking forward to the way this campaign issue comes up for a quarter of you in the parliamentary elections in 22. However, it is quite certain and it can be concluded that, although it would have been necessary to restart steel production in Diósgyőr and in the region in an appropriate quality, volume and domestic demand, this mini steel plant obviously did not disappear completely from the region, but practically does not kick to a fraction of the former, so this steel works could be a significant step forward, but not promises, not magic, and not frauds based on this type of exymbank loans. At least some of this process is certain, I think it was like this, although many well-meaning professionals have tried to help the mini steel work in Nuosgyőr. So, trust. The truth is, you can't be trusted in a situation where you and I, as a man of Miskolc-Diósgyőr, hear about this in a nationwide manner, have heard that ten years ago, eleven years ago, this issue and this kind of case have not been resolved, but there have been a lot of resources to prepare for taxpayers' money. Looks like there's been a waste of money, so there's no trust. We cannot support this proposal in this form because of the lack of confidence, but otherwise we would be partners in rebuilding the network and system of Exim from the beginning in line with the original goals, and we are rethinking the goals of helping the export markets of Hungarian companies. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-30-40	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of DK, Mr László Varju, may speak. Here.
u2021-04-30-41	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Then let us begin by confirming and understanding that, instead of right-wing fellow Members, the right-wing and left-wing opposition protests against Fidesz-KDNP's pro-state proposal. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Correct!]] In three points, I would like to say that this story is offset or counterpointed by what you, my fellow Members, or rapporteur have said here. In the first round, I would like to deal with what the Secretary of State and the ladies of Congress have said. In the second round, on the subject of Eximbank, let us say that we have heard from my fellow Members here the controversial, reprehensible practice on which I would like to say, in the meantime, what Minister Szijjártó is talking about, what he preaches, and then the following is what my fellow Members have said. Thirdly, there is the textual part of the bill itself, which, I think, leaves much to be desired. So let us begin with the first part, in which the Congresswoman referred to the aim of relaunching and economic recovery, that is working. Well, then, honourable Congresswoman, I suggest you do it. They do not want to support this bill, but what Hungary's families, employees, workers, entrepreneurs and employers expect! Give me a salary supplement that is about not having to dismiss people, give them a decent pension supplement just like once, so that people don't starve to death and can at least buy their medicine, give them a family bonus increase that they've been forgetting for ten years, all the things that are summarized as helping people, not buddies, but people, if they mean it that way. Now, if this comes with such a proposal, which the Secretary of State has referred to as a proposal to meet market needs, then, honourable Secretary of State, please list whose market needs you are thinking of at this time. 'Cause so many people aren't based on the practice so far, so at least we know who they are. I could give you an example that when the personal income tax law is amended by giving a personal income tax discount to football players who cost a lot of money, we can also look at it there, because there are only a few people who are entitled to it, who are otherwise able to use this HUF 500 million. So, Secretary of State, please tell us who you wrote this bill for, who you're talking about, who you're trying to help. Even in order for the next government to know what they were really up to or what they wanted to achieve, and then I will not start arguing that it is right or wrong now, I will basically start from the practice so far that it would be difficult to accept. It is considered important, as the Secretary of State pointed out, and this should be mentioned here in the law, which is indirect, so that the company to be set up in that country can also be supported. [[11.20]] If I think about it now, that we can consider this as a rescue, that Hungary's state budget, the Hungarian taxpayers, is supporting a business in another country, if it works, if we could say so, we could hope that it works economically well. But in this law, it is immediately submitted that the claims that will not be recovered are projected to be... I don't know how effective you are when you are doing your job, so far I honestly see a significant increase in risks rather than a substantial return on investment. Because if I thought that some of these investments should be sold now, then, let's just say, it would be difficult to get out of it otherwise, if there is anyone who would be willing to do so. Secondly, as I have mentioned, since it has not yet been a year since we amended the law on Eximbank, and now it is here again, I must remind you that the government, i.e. the Fidesz-KDNP state party, seems to always bring the government here, in accordance with its interest at the moment, or drags the government there, acts in confusion and does not know what is happening. Meanwhile, he proclaims that, as I promised to summon Minister, he feels that the pandemic is not only a health issue but also an economic issue, and after an epidemic, nothing will be the same as before. Completely new competition, new rules, new players, new careers. As I understand it, this is what I want to support here, so that these new characters, new orbits, will appear. We could quote the news the other day that there are really new players coming, because I was shocked to hear that Lőrinc Mészáros lost a tender procedure. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes. Skandalum!]] And then, of course, we learned that it was because his son-in-law was the winner. So we were really amazed at the world, really new careers, new characters coming from what we've been seeing. However, Minister, you said a summary sentence that led me to hope that if you came with such a new amendment, you would take the trouble to put the impact assessment before us on what they have done so far, what follows or what has happened. Okay, I understand that Mr. Secretary of State will say that business secrets can't be listed by name. Okay, he doesn't list it, but it's still 450 billion forints recently. After all, a capital increase of HUF 40 billion had to be made, so that they could pay for such different steps and finance their friends! I don't want to repeat the characters you've mentioned, but the most recent, let's mention one thing, this Viresol Mészáros Lőrinc has received a gift money from you in addition to a cheap loan. Well, go ahead, don't let him stay out of this. To sum up, Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you when you will give us an evaluable overview of what we can consider or hope for as an impact assessment and, accordingly, the activities of Eximbank, let us say, we could have detailed knowledge. But it is not really the Excel table that is exciting, you know what happened, because the Excel table protects you from error, but from political errors when the Fidesz-KDNP State Party finances actors in loyal ownership circles, it cannot be supported, supported, condemned, even in this respect, because what they are doing in this way is completely illegal, even if they are currently trying to legitimize some process by law. Over the past year, and for this reason, I say that experience is needed in a similar action already being involved in making better use of investment opportunities in different real estate funds. Mr Secretary, tell us a few thoughts on this, please, how this has been achieved, since we have not been able to obtain this information or information on direct impact assessments in this sense. Finally, and approaching the conclusion, let us look at the two important points of this relatively short law that you have referred to, in what way you think it is appropriate or worthwhile to give someone an opportunity. One of these, as you put it, is that you want to finance the actors acting as agents of the state. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why this has become so important in addition to the fact that I understand that they have complained a lot, that there is little profit coming from what they have to do, and that you are now adopting it and that I would like to finance it from the state budget. But it's back in me that the same circle you've been financing is not going to be loaned to you, but you've found actors in this capacity that you want to make up for. This is not an acceptable effort for me. Clarification of concepts is an interesting issue in itself, but let me point out that the proposal to support companies' investment opportunities abroad is only a technical amendment, and I do not consider it to be a technical amendment at all, as has been said above. I could say that the increased share capital, after capital increases, is being used to save capital and save money abroad. Do not consider what I am saying a malicious approach, but I think that it is in our interest to protect the resources generated by the work of Hungarian taxpayers. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I can say that, joining the chairman of our Committee on Business, we are most affected by this. If that is the case, consider that what we are considering is obviously not only a political approach, while stressing my own negative feelings, but also that there are 600 thousand businesses in this country and a fraction of it is able to obtain the benefits that you provide. I understand that there are companies and companies that produce favourite exports, and they need to be helped even in China, because clearly, let's just say, the investment there can only be made through the company there, but I consider that what you are proposing is not transparent enough to accept and support in this way. So I do not consider both points, which are the main subject of this short amendment to the law, to be the necessary step to create consistency, and therefore, I think that this should be rejected. It is only because it is important for both the right- and left-wing opposition to create a just economy, and it is in no way intended to support this just economy in such a way as the businesses you have created or made privileged. Several examples have been given. [[11.30]] In conclusion, I can tell you that this bill cannot be accepted. Although I understand that the Fidesz-KDNP governing party needs this pro-state initiative to finance friends. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-30-42	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. Now there are two-minute speeches, but I don't see a candidate for that. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a further speech. Here.
u2021-04-30-43	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to note, however, that any moral capital of this government for the burden of recovery costs on taxpayers is when it settles the situation of its own citizens, quoted by enforcement collections, as they are in a very difficult situation. Perhaps we are nearing the end of the debate, and after me no one is logged in to speak. All along, I was confident that the Secretary of State or one of my Fidesz fellow Members, who hit combative national rhetoric, tried to hit me on economic policy, would respond to our suggestion of how national the government could be, under which the most difficult ones would be beaten down 33 percent and 50 percent of enforcement bans. There's a bit of a debate in me about this. In terms of gas power plants in Ghana and other exotic investments, question marks also multiply. What the new government of national unity will certainly do in a different way and will not approve of you is what you have done in connection with an open credit line due to the epidemic. It is quite amazing that billions of public money flows through different channels, and it doesn't matter whether the Prime Minister wins this by public procurement, or by his supposed acquaintances, or by Lőrinc Mészáros, and his son-in-law wins a similar tender; here the range of opportunities is almost endless. We see that through the compensation package, which was practically carried through the Eximbank, the largest loan of 25 billion HUF is the Chinese-owned BorsodChem Zrt. He started heading towards Lőrinc Mészáros's starch factory, where a total of HUF 2.5 billion was drained in two parts. West Hungária Bau Kft. has already been mentioned by 3.5 billion, but Hungerit Zrt. He also received a total loan of HUF 2.4 billion in two instalments. The Prime Minister's son-in-law also came up on the news, as he demanded some credit from the credit line opened for those in need. I'd like to point you to some restraint. You are the professor's emeritus of public finance. This government was able to create a whole new genre, so let's just think about the trust fund. At least don't bend down for the subpoenaed change, which was opened for those in need, because these resources might be needed to survive Hungarian businesses. It is quite certain that the activities of the companies listed by me do not say that it is pointless, because it is not, it can also be a very important national strategy goal among them, but that they are not in need in most of them, it is quite certain. I'd like to point you to some restraint because you don't have moral resources for what's going on here. In this particularly difficult situation and the framework open to firms in difficulty due to the crisis, these companies, either linked to the oligarchs or with a very extensive financial background, could not arise. Once again, where their moral capital is completely worn out, the situation of the victims of the Hungarian foreign exchange loan has been damaged. It's not a thousand people, it's not two thousand people, it's tens of thousands, it's making everyday life impossible for one or two hundred thousand people. I know that I am putting Mr. Secretary of State in a somewhat awkward position, because it is not necessarily the sole subject of this agenda that I am talking about, but the fact that there is absolutely no government position on the mass looting of Hungarian people is quite amazing. And even more so, if this government tries to mime or puppet patriot economic policy, it pours national syrup on itself, but at the same time betrays hundreds of thousands of our fellow nations in this way and leaves them in the middle of an epidemiological emergency in an incredibly hopeless situation. Once again, I would like to stress that the eviction moratorium expires in five days, the hours start ticking again. You cannot put Hungarians on the streets in an emergency. The fact that children are on the streets without accommodation in the middle of the Covid epidemic and the crisis is simply an assassination of the Hungarians. They have no moral basis to keep it that way. Once again, I expected to get a meaningful answer to my questions in the circle where I can respond. I regret that this has not happened, but I expect you to at least have a position on issues involving one or two hundred thousand Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-30-44	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[Tamás Vargha: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2021-04-30-45	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the comments, the supporting contributions in particular. Congressman Z. Carpathian is used to extending the boundaries of the debate, not the first time, nor the last. Of course, I try to answer all your questions. However, I feel that the Member has slept through the last few years in two ways. On the one hand, he did not realize that the party behind you had left the right side to the left, and he was still delusional that Jobbik was a right-wing party. [[Intercoms.]] But that's not the case anymore. And he also slept through the fact that he had not noticed the performance of Eximbank in recent years. Congressman Varju mentioned statistics and Excel signs. If you look at these Excel tables and statistics and read them carefully, the performance that Eximbank has recently performed in recent years is noticeable, visible, tangible and can be measured in numbers. 2020 was one of the most successful years with a new loan of more than HUF 400 billion, and the number of customers reached 2 000 of the 6,000 mentioned by Congressman Varju, of which 93 percent were small and medium-sized enterprises. There has also been talk of job creation and the re-launch of the economy. Mr President, if you had followed Eximbank's activities and dug into Mongolia's lending, you would have noticed that the country loan that Mongolia received is helping Hungarian businesses, since Hungarian companies will build the plant that Mongolia is building from this country loan. So the Hungarian budget comes in tax dollars and creates Hungarian jobs, as Hungarian business will work and build there. And the credit moratorium helps those in the most difficult situations, no matter how much the Member tries not to notice it or acknowledge it. In the meantime, he's saying such large-scale sentences that billions of public funds are being made under or outside the compensation programme, it's not exactly clear. If Congressman László Varga mentioned Miskolc as his constituency, then let me mention that I am the parliamentary representative of Székesfehérvár. And if we have already widened the debate and included the eastern part of Hungary, then let's include the western part of Hungary, Székesfehérvár. In recent years, businesses in Székesfehérvár have received HUF 5.8 billion under the compensation scheme, more than 90 percent of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. But if we expand the circle a little more, it will also support businesses in terms of the first, second and future third pace of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's competitiveness-enhancing support. In the case of Székesfehérvár, it was only HUF 9 billion during the last year, only during the epidemic. [[11.40]] This has protected almost 5,000 jobs in Székesfehérvár; because it is not our idea to protect jobs and not our concept of providing unemployment benefits and thus keeping people in unemployment, but creating jobs and giving people the opportunity to work and work. This is a fundamentally different philosophical approach to protecting jobs than yours. And the same applies to this family allowance: we do not believe in the family allowance and increase it, but we believe that, with the help of family tax relief, as many families as possible will have more money from the tax forints. I think the last eleven years have proved that this philosophy, this attitude and these measures have been successful. I think that every Hungarian company has the right to take any credit from any bank, including the Eximbank, and if they meet the terms of the notice, they have rightly taken the loan. If companies were unable to make use of the available resources after taking out the loan, this is not available on the financing bank, but on the company. Congressman László Varga mentioned trust. In addition to trust, I would also recommend to the Member that he look at the figures, read the statistics, analyze the values, the numbers and the facts, and then he will see that, in addition to trust, the facts justify the objectives of the amendment to this bill. Yes, this bill is part of the relaunching of the economy, and we would like to add a risk to the package of measures with which we would like to restart the Hungarian economy after the epidemic, at the end of the epidemic. And indeed, I think that the market demand for Eximbank's loans and Eximbank's work, which we would like to thank all Eximbank's employees for, is demonstrated by more than 2,000 customers in 2020. The figures again: Eximbank paid a record new loan of more than HUF 400 billion in 2020. And that they support Hungarian companies operating in other countries: the fact that a Hungarian company is registered as a legal entity or subsidiary in other countries does not mean that it remains a Hungarian company and we support a Hungarian company. This is, of course, part of the policy and the idea that foreign entrepreneurs should not only invest and invest in Hungary, continue and expand, but also that Hungarian businesses should start their business in foreign countries, and we would like to support them with this. Yes, Minister Péter Szijjártó has often mentioned that a new world and a new competition is coming, as capacities have been closed during the epidemic, and these capacities will be opened. It is not certain that it will open in the countries in which they were closed up, a competition has developed that these capacities are developed by those countries that are able, strong enough... and Hungary is such a country because it moves and thinks about how to acquire and open new capacities in Hungary. This opens up new careers and new opportunities, including investment in other countries. Of course, business secrets and bank secrets cannot be learned, but I have already mentioned that public statistics and Excel signs are readable, and if you read and analyze them with a clear eye, then everyone can see that Eximbank's activities are constantly expanding and growing. I believe that we can recognise these results not only from a political point of view and from an approach, but also from the facts. And if we change a law and change the law on Eximbank now, it only proves that the way the world is changing around us nowadays is relatively fast, but if we try to follow these changes, the steps taken at the right time will bring about the fruitage of this decision in the near future. Thank you very much for your attention, and once again I ask the Parliament to support the bill in voting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 6 p.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain agricultural legislation until closure. The government referral is T/15987. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-30-47	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you proposes to amend 23 or 23 laws; in this speech, I would like to briefly summarise the content of each amendment. The law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses relates to the amendment of the Land Protection Act, in order to ensure that the necessary data can be obtained from the personal data and address register in land protection matters. The reason for the amendment of the Law on the Restoration of the Protection Level of Protected Natural Areas is linked to the rules on the settlement of the ownership of land covered by the land use rights of the cooperative and entered into force on 1 January 2021. From the first day of January, by virtue of the law, the land on which the land was registered under the real estate register was owned by the State. For this reason, the law on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas no longer has to be extended to these lands, since they are owned by the State and the expropriation of these properties has become obsolete. According to the new rules on meteorological activity at regulation level, the National Meteorological Service will carry out aviation meteorological activities throughout Hungary, and HungaroControl Zrt will be repealed from the Aviation Act. Among his duties, he performed a meteorological mission in the airspace of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport. The purpose of the amendment to the Law on Armed Security, Nature Conservation and Field Watch is basically technical clarification. On the one hand, it is necessary to provide for control in respect of the use of the agricultural contribution for purposes other than those for which it is intended, and on the other hand, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, instead of the metropolitan and county government offices, shall carry out the functions of registering field guards, and on the third, it is necessary to supplement the rules of professional supervision. The purpose of the amendment of the so-called gene law is to transpose the rules on data processing in relation to the 2019/1381 EU Regulation. The next law is the seed law. The reason for its amendment is to establish, on the one hand, a prohibition on the use and placing on the market of non-compliant propagating material for own use and, on the other hand, to clarify, in the case of the closed zone of seed production, the issue of the notice, and, on the third, the sale on the internet, which, in particular, increases the legal background for the control of this form of sale in relation to grape and propagating material. The amendment of the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Procedures Act is also of a technical nature. [[11.50]] It is linked to the new rules for farmers at the end of last year, as well as the work of village farmers assisting in the submission of aid applications. The primary objective of the amendment to the Land Protection Act is to amend the rules on the unauthorised use of land for other purposes in order to ensure the feasibility of the obligation to protect land laid down in the Fundamental Law. With regard to the timeliness of the protection of land, I would just like to mention that in the last 30 years hundreds of thousands of hectares of land have been lost from the national cadastral for other purposes, the development of roads, railways, municipalities, factories, plants and production plants. This is not something we can do to replace these production areas. There is only one country in Europe for this, and this is the Netherlands. In addition to reviewing the rules of the protection of land, the legislative proposal also aims to ensure regulatory consistency with other laws, to implement technical amendments and to clarify the rules on fruit plantations. By amending the Law on the Food Chain and Official Surveillance, we expect an increase in the effectiveness of the protection against ragweed. There will no longer be an obstacle to the protection of the otherwise sufficient number of crops present in the area. It's about the schnapps bill. The amendment of the Pálinka Act is also due to legal harmonisation reasons. In 2019 the European Union reformed the legislation on spirit drinks, reviewing the registration and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks. The amendment serves a threefold purpose. The reference to the repealed Regulation (EC) No 110/2008 is replaced by a reference to Regulation (EC) No 2019/787. It clarifies the text of the Pálinka Act on the type of protection, as it is only possible to obtain protection for a geographical indication under EU legislation, but not for a designation of origin. Finally, it sets out which provisions of the law should be applied in addition to pálinka to the pálinka. Forest law. The purpose of the amendment to the forest law is to ensure that, in the course of the official enforcement of the obligation to restore forests, the forest farmer or the owner of the forest is not unexpectedly affected by the set of official measures to be applied, which first appears in the provision of a forest renewal guarantee and then in the form of a fine in the event of non-compliance. In addition, the new category introduced by the Family Economy Act, which aims to regulate the family farm of ancient farmers in the forest economy, will be dealt with. A member of the family farm of the original producer is a trained forester, in which case he can also carry out the professional management of the tasks of forestry. The reason for the amendment of the National Land Fund Act is to align the forms of exploitation of land covered by the National Land Fund with the provisions laid down in the Land Traffic Act, which means the possibility of applying new types of contracts for the use of forests. The agricultural compensation scheme, which has been in place since 2012, has so far adequately compensated producers' losses due to adverse weather conditions, but the increasingly extreme weather experience in recent years has led to a lack of resources for the compensation fund. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to increase the amount of the producer contribution by amending the Agricultural Compensation Act. According to the bill, the amount of the compensation contribution per hectare of agricultural land used by the farmer per year would rise to HUF 4500 per hectare, compared to HUF 3 000, per hectare of arable land, to HUF 4500 per hectare, to HUF 3 000, and to HUF 1500 per hectare of other arable land, instead of the previous HUF 1000. I would like to indicate that this amount has been unchanged since the establishment of the system, i.e. almost ten years ago. The law on surveying and mapping activities needs to be amended for deregulation reasons. The law on land publishing committees that are now empty is repealed, so the references to it need to be amended accordingly. In the context of changes to land traffic regulations, the exercise of the right to pre-purchase and pre-lease, rules will be laid down in the judicial practice and the title of forest management will be clarified. In addition, the law will be adapted in the context of the termination of the undivided joint ownership. The amendment to the Act on certain aspects of the organisation of the markets in agricultural products and on producer and interbranch organisations aims to lay down the laws necessary to regulate the conduct of the agricultural advisory activity. The 2020 XL closing of the share expenditure process. The amendment of Law 1 is aimed at giving ownership to the competent local government of the roads covered by the land use right of the cooperative. LIII of 2020 on the Veterinary Chamber. The amendment to the Act is justified by the correction of a codification error. According to the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber, it is also appropriate to provide for the condition of the existence of a five-year professional practice for the authorisation of an independent practice only from the 6th year following the year in which the diploma was obtained in 2021. This would only be possible for veterinarians who performed in 2020 or before, but those who graduated from 2022 have already applied to the university in the light of this obligation, so that they are not disadvantaged by the requirement. The elimination of undivided common ownership concerns a very wide range of citizens, for whom the fundamental aim is to ensure that this process is carried out in a transparent and efficient manner. Since the adoption of the law, a number of indications have been received by the Ministry of Agriculture, on the basis of which it is appropriate to amend the law to facilitate its application. The amendment of the Family Farms Act is necessary to eliminate minor enforcement problems. In the case of the family holding of the ancestors, provision should be made for the possibility of abolishing the family holding of the ancestors if, at the joint decision of the members, they no longer wish to continue to function as a family holding or if, despite the request, they do not remedy the deficiencies that have arisen and so do not comply with the legal conditions. It is also necessary to clarify that, in the event of the termination of the membership of any member, the scope of the contract establishing the family holding of primary producers will be maintained for members continuing in farming. However, if the number of members is reduced to one, the contract will be terminated. In view of the fact that the law does not provide for the obligation of personal participation in family agricultural companies, the provision may be repealed. The amendment of the Law on Vine and Winery lays down provisions concerning holders of a wine holding permit with a risky classification. The holder of a wine holding permit shall be considered to be a risky category if he has committed specific infringements several times within a given period. The holder of a wine authorisation of this classification shall meet more stringent administrative requirements. The law expands the range of products with wine vinegar that do not require analytical and organoleptic testing and a marketing identifier for placing on the market for public consumption. [[12.00]] It also complements the register of small-scale wine producers, persons with a wine judge's exam and the personal data content of registered wine competitions. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, we can see that the amendments discussed are minor, mostly technical. However, these minor corrections still provide meaningful assistance to the farmers, farmers and businesses concerned. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill on the grounds stated and to adopt it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, the lead speaker of Fidesz, István Horváth, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Deputy Minister points out that we are discussing, in principle, amendments to agricultural legislation containing a number of minor technical amendments, legislative harmonisation. The bill contains amendments to 22 agricultural laws. I think it was right for the author to summarize the amendments. In this way, we can discuss it in a package and we do not need to debate and then vote on 22 minor amendments separately. I do not wish to discuss in detail the amendment of the Act on the Registration of Citizens' Personal Data and Addresses, the Aviation Act, the Veterinary Chamber Act, the Law on Armed Security Guard, the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Procedures Act, the Forest Act, the NFA Act, the Agriculture Act, the Trade Market Law and the Gene Law, because due to their nature, it is worth mentioning in the detailed debate. The amendment of the Law on the Restoration of the Protection Level of Protected Natural Areas and the amendment of the Law on the Settlement of Land Ownership under the Land Use Rights of Farming Cooperatives is for a substantive purpose. In particular, in the short procedure of the new legislative rules, which we created last year and entered into force on 1 January 2021, we can finally settle the outstanding share-financing procedures for about a quarter of a century, so that the affected, in many cases already older persons can receive a fair payment. This represents a gold crown value of HUF 50,000, for which they have been able to apply to government offices since 1 January this year. In return, the State has replaced land which has not yet been allocated, including roads where it is appropriate to transfer ownership of land to the municipality that manages the local road network. At the same time, I consider it important that, unlike previous rules, the ownership of channels and trenches remains with the National Centre for Earth Affairs, which also carries out the tasks of irrigation agencies. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the possibility of informing those concerned in their constituency about the possibility of applying and the procedure in respect of compensation of HUF 50,000 per golden crown. Many stakeholders still do not have information that they are entitled to pay money. The most affected areas are Csongrád-Csanád, Heves, Pest, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Zala counties. On the subject of the seed law, we welcome the Fidesz Group's opportunity to control online sales. During the epidemic period, there was a significant increase in the frequency of Internet commerce and parcel shopping. This is true also in the case of seed, grape and fruit propagating material, which is not primarily meant by large-scale acquisitions, since they are most often purchased by farmers through integration links, but by home gardens. The pandemic has led to a kind of Renaissance of gardening, even in the shadow of the housing estates of larger cities community gardens, which I consider a great initiative and a welcome direction for myself. However, it can be a great disappointment if sown seeds, planted propagating material are of poor quality, and the so-called rookie farmer is looking forward to hatching and growth in vain. We will not allow such deceitful goblins to discourage the enthusiastic little farmers. It is important that the authority is able to intervene in time, to check online web gardening through a trial purchase. In the context of the Land Protection Act, I was shocked to hear the words of the Deputy Minister when he spoke about the extent of the decline in agricultural land. In the last 30 years, the country's production area has decreased by some 800,000 hectares. I have a feeling we can't even assess what a treasure the soil is. We do not take care of it enough if we do not create barriers to the investor in the event of a new investment, which would encourage the recycling of brown fields which are otherwise environmental or social burdens. A good example is the question of solar power plants. With the development of technology, we can now use competitive solar farms to replace coal-fired power plants that cause serious environmental damage and pollution. At the same time, we see that solar power plants are very often established in fields and pastures, and the reason for this is probably that it is cheaper to invest in a green field than to clean up an abandoned plant and do so with a brownfield investment. However, we can influence this with economic regulation techniques and normative regulation. We support the fact that such investments are not carried out in fields that are better than average or in areas that are worth more than 15 golden crowns. For my part, I'd go even further. In many places in Western Europe, there are examples of agricultural and solar production being able to work well together. It's called agro-photovoltaika. In practice, this means that solar panels are placed at a height below which operational management can be carried out. All of this may appear in a vineyard, where some of the outstanding columns of the cordon are 3-4 meters tall, gardening, where the irrigation device is built on the support structure of the solar panels, or even in a field, where these solar panels are designed so high that they can fit under it even on the combine. In the context of the amendment of the Food Chain Act, we support the tightening of the rules for the control of raggrass. Many times, for example, in sunflower tablets, the reason why the authority was unable to release the area is because half of the agronomically justified number was present. For example, I think of an area where half the vegetation is sunflower, but the other half is parlagweed. Let us not protect farmers who neglect weeding, and as a result, our allergic fellow citizens who are sensitive to pollen are drowning from pollen for weeks! It is very appropriate that the authority be able to carry out compulsory relief in these lands at the cost of land users. Turning to the amendment of the Pálinka Act, we support the harmonisation amendments and conceptual clarifications resulting from EU law on the part of our group. At the same time, I would like to point out that we are looking forward to the presentation in autumn of the origin protection law announced by the Minister. I am convinced that protection of the origin of products is a distinctive feature that can support an increase in the proportion of domestic products, but also strengthen local self-esteem, as producers are proud of the higher quality that is geographically linked to them. In France, there is no village that does not have its own cheese, and this distinctive feature can then provide higher sales prices to producers. It is worth studying these examples and introducing them into domestic relations. With regard to the Compensation Act, I would like to point out in a prerogative that, for the last decade, we can say that the system is well-tested and deserves a good certificate. Many producers were helped through difficult periods or saved from bankruptcy. [[12.10]] The increase in the number of insurances also indicates that farmers have understood the importance of it. The crisis insurance system adopted last year was the first one in Europe. We believe that the increase in the amount of farmers' payments was timely, since in the last ten years there has been a significant increase in sales prices, from which it is worth transferring this relative small amount, i.e. an additional HUF 1000-1500 per hectare, in order to maintain the stability of the compensation system for further years. On behalf of the Fidesz Group, we support the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber's proposal that veterinarians who obtained this year's degree should not even be required to have five years of practical time for their own practice. Obviously, students who graduated from the future, however, had already applied to the university knowing that they had to fulfil this condition. Undivided common ownership is an old burden on farmers' everyday lives. The misguided agricultural policy decisions of the '90s cannot be reversed, but it is appropriate to open the way for those affected to do so. However, they are a very large number of stakeholders, and it is therefore essential that the regulation be as complex and understandable as possible. I regret that the procedures could not be launched because of the emergency, but it is perhaps a little fortunate that we have the opportunity to make further clarification. Finally, the Family Farms Act and the new Wine Law are recently adopted two pieces of legislation where fine-tuning is justified to correct minor errors. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, we support the adoption of the bill, and I ask you to do so, based on what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-50	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2021-04-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. 22 laws are being amended and one is being passed, which is why it's called the salad law, but it's an exaggeration. Just because it has been said many times as a rapporteur and as a pro-government comment that it contains only technical clarifications, which is a strong exaggeration; as has been said many times, it must have been suspicious to us. Indeed, it is mainly about EU legal harmonisation, technical clarifications, details of data management, but there are also substantive proposals hidden among them, and also things that should not be the content of an agricultural salad law, and it is worth adding those that have left us with a serious sense of lack. So they open up areas where there would be plenty to do, but they do not change the paragraphs that, let's say, the players in the sector concerned have been waiting for years. I would like to start by saying that here the 50% increase in the agricultural compensation fund will appear, which will cause a strange situation, because for years we have heard between the walls of the House how many billion forints the compensation fund closed by plus in the given year and what another opportunity this will open for him. I am thinking of the national construction of the hail response system and other investments. In comparison, they ran out of this money quickly and practically force farmers to raise another tax. But that's not an option. Let's face it, though, that the weather is really becoming ever more extreme and increasingly inadequate in addition to current technologies for the production of food. So with this logic, we will have to bring this legislation here practically every two years now, so that we will always increase the costs of the farmers concerned by 50 percent. This may be suitable for fire-fighting, and we will be able to deal with the frost damage this year, with the state's commitment, but it is definitely not a sustainable commitment. We have been missing here for 11 years now the legislative amendments that, in the context of climate change, can make those technologies widely applicable and accessible in Hungary, which would be able to provide farmers with a more reliable production in these extreme weather conditions. So if we put one foot of the story and, quite rightly, we make sure that this compensation fund works, then let's not forget the other leg. With its mass, we would expect the proven, tried methods in the more fortunate countries, which contain production technologies that are able to adapt at least partially to the changed circumstances; because this will be a never-ending vicious circle when we raise this prize year after year, but the real problem will not be dealt with. The Chamber of Agriculture has also said here, and you will receive new licenses, and this time you will be able to have the data of the field guard. Here, I don't know, there have been at least two dozen amendments in the past period that constantly extend the powers of the Chamber of Agriculture. We really have a feeling that a state in the state, and indeed there was a time when, let's say, rural development resources didn't belong to you, not to the agricultural purse, when we really felt that the Chamber of Agriculture could provide anything instead of the Ministry, and we didn't need the agricultural purse at all. So we do not really understand the significance of this. Of course, we know that we are talking about a highly politicised body, where all county leaders are closely connected to your political party family, and perhaps they are hoping that they can maintain the powers and save themselves even if there is a possible change of government. I do not see any other reason for this; I do not understand how this amendment is otherwise. There has also been talk of coercion in cases where the grass reaches the level of intervention by the state. In any case, I attach this to positive progress and, indeed, there should be much more frequent and much greater powers for the State to act in these cases. However, I would like to point out that, for example, in my host hour the other day, an elderly woman who owns some golden crowns has an unsolvable land user, who is also not an officially land user. So we all know that the last decades, especially the first half of the '90s, have left an inheritance waiting to be settled. The point is, she still has 20,000 forints from her pension every month, who knows how many years ago she imposed a lawn penalty. I'm sure you could go to an expert lawyer in the field and go to court in this case, but let's face it, that's not normal and that's not normal. So let us pay attention to these special cases and, through the village farmers, help them to do their research, so that the landowner who did not know where those few golden crowns had been measured 30 years ago does not pay this punishment. At the touch of the seed law, I was very pleased that we might be meeting with some substantial modification, because let's not forget that the seed was perhaps the area we were most proud of here in agriculture, and that really was an area that brought us to the forefront in the world. Here I am thinking mainly about the period before the '90s. This is where I think we've suffered the worst setback, and this is the area that hasn't really recovered since then, but, well, we haven't had any substantive changes today either. I continue to encourage you to rethink the entire domestic seed strategy, and indeed to be a priority area in the national economy, because it has potential. The words that were said here in terms of hundreds of thousands of hectares of land lost were very heartbreaking, were 800 thousand hectares, if I remember correctly, which, unfortunately, was lost in Hungary, and will no longer be suitable for agricultural production. But, I beg you, you've been on the government for 11 years. Did you have to realize that now? Where have the legislation for the protection of agricultural land been so far? [[12.20]] In recent months, a large number of greenfield investments have been decided across the country, which will also consume tens and hundreds of billions of public money. It would be good if these investments were also covered, let me refer to this MotoGP track. So go ahead, go ahead, I just feel a little late for these, and again I see that the privileged will be given the opportunity to grant immunity again. A new administrative obligation will also be introduced, since we are already in the field of soil protection. I think it is extremely important and my heart is this, because unfortunately, even a significant part of farmers are not aware of how they could maintain their productive potential in a sustainable way, but I do not believe that this new administrative obligation will bring us forward and help us. I rather believe that an adequate information and a continuous information opportunity that the state can promote could do more in this area. We talked about the pálinka brewery, and here, like the seed, so at first reading I hoped that there might be some substantial changes in it towards the end, since both the commercial breweries and the farmers have been sending their proposals that could help their survival and their progress for years, but this has not yet arrived. Therefore, I will try to respond to these in my amendments and try to put their intention to amend them into the legislation. I trust you may accept these. If we are going to mention in a semi-phrase that this salad law does contain parts that are absolutely inappropriate, then allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to mention this. I would like to read this exceptionally, since I would not bear the burden of saying any technical statements concerning air traffic management, but fortunately, the Agriculture Committee has received a letter from György Pásti, President of the Independent Trade Union of Air Traffic Management, which is extremely short, so if I may, I would quote it. I stress it because it's completely alien to me, and beyond the fact that I like to look at where an airplane is right now, let's say, through a mobile app, and I don't have much to do with the area. å Dear Committee on Agriculture! Mr President, The agenda of the Committee meeting on 4 May 2021 includes a bill amending certain agricultural legislation submitted by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, which plans, inter alia, to amend the Air Transport Act No 95 in point 3. According to the amendment, as of 1 January 2022, the OMSZ will perform the flight meteorological tasks in the airspace of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport, carried out by HungaroControl Zrt. and its predecessors since 93. This is where it comes to the point that the trade union believes that such a change in the flight meteorological service requires thorough preparations and inspections due to its safety, economic and financial aspects. So they didn't happen, at least if the union didn't know about it, they certainly didn't happen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of the information available to us so far, no such substantive examination has been carried out and, therefore, the trade union has serious professional concerns. It is considered that the transition will not be smooth, in particular with regard to the fact that the OMSZ revealed several serious deficiencies in the audit carried out by the European Aviation Safety Agency on 10 March 2021. In order for the preparation to be professionally sound and reassuring for all, they believe that it would be necessary to involve impartial experts. For example, the invitation of the Institute of Transport Sciences could have been a professional preparation. According to the information received so far, 19 people working in the airport meteorological service are transferred to the OMSZ, which represents a 10 percent increase in the number of employees. As far as we know, the OMSZ is not prepared for this, I am not quoting this from the letter, just what I have learned from my research, so far the OMSZ has even had a problem with the category of people who are able to manage the increase in salaries, and I do not think they are prepared for the 10 percent increase in staff, as the trade union suggests. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As president of the trade union, in the interests of aviation safety, the level of operational safety and workers and of more than ten million passengers at the airport, they ask that these interests are not harmed and use all legal means to enforce this. They ask the President, the Committee on Agriculture, and I also ask Parliament's representatives to consider the aspects outlined by them when supporting the draft law, and they hope that a positive decision will be taken on this basis. These are the concerns that I can fully agree with, because if the trade union in the area concerned considered them to be important, I thought that the minimum is to say this here in Parliament, and I urge you to decide on this important issue by considering it. Finally, I would like to mention one more thing, and that is the question of solar parks, solar farms. We travel the country, we all experience that these solar farms reproduce in a fungus form, and indeed many times in precious fields with a very good golden crown, which must be stopped. I think that's out of the question. The direction is also to try to focus these, say, on land worth less than 15 golden crowns, but I do not really understand why this would be the most effective way. The distinction between green and brownfield investments has been very graphic here, and unfortunately today is often a poor decision for the investor to make if he invests in brownfields, because greenfields are cheaper. Well, then why are we not trying to solve this, not practically offering land under the 15 golden crowns as prey, but using more effective methods to force the investors involved to invest in the brownfields where possible? So I don't think this is the best way. I am pleased that we have heard of technologies within the solar element that are suitable for agricultural activity, whether it be grazing, vegetable cultivation or anything else, but that the draft law does not cover them. I would have been happy to read it if this amendment was almost word for word and we were more than allowed in the land under the 15 golden crowns, but a comma than solar energy technologies that could continue to provide opportunities for a locally accepted and functioning form of agricultural production. So, if there is such technology, I know that there is one, then why don't we put it in the legislation in a textual way? I think I can also say, on behalf of my fellow opposition Members, that this amendment would then be more sympathetic, and then we too would agree that this is an honest intention and indeed an amendment that achieves the objective. All in all, that was the most important thing I wanted to say. I will be able to state our support on the basis of the adoption of the amendments. Here, there are some meaningful stories that we would like to refine, and if the government is a partner in this, then we too can be in the final vote. So here's your chance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To break up with the traditions we've had so far. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-52	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, the lead speaker of KDNP is coming. Here.
u2021-04-30-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We were able to hear from the right-wing lead speaker's colleague that we said here that basically there are technical amendments to this salad law for legal harmonisation purposes, and he said that they do exist, except in two areas where there is substance, but there is no substance. So this is where I could summarize my fellow Member's speech and why the National Meteorological Service is carrying out weather forecasting, where there is, by the way, aero-meteorological department, honourable Member, so colleagues and government officials are already doing this kind of work there. The team will be able to expand, as it currently has such a professional department, a professional department of OMSZ with a long history. [[12.30]] The amendments described in detail by the Secretary of State, as has been said, are essentially draft laws implementing technical, clarification, codification and minor amendments, but they have an important impact on the life of Hungarian agriculture. We, Christian Democrats, consider every bill on food safety and soil protection to be a priority. Hungarian agriculture has always been known and recognised throughout history for its high-quality crops throughout Europe. Today, Hungarian agriculture faces a number of major challenges. These factors include the often unpredictable, extreme weather, long, droughty periods, foreign competition, an ageing economy or an opaque, complex, possibly outdated regulatory environment. Of all these, an ageing economy may be the biggest challenge in Hungary and throughout the European Union, since 58 percent of Hungarian farmers are over 55 years of age. It is therefore essential to change generations in the Hungarian farming community, for which it is particularly important to support young farmers with great forces. Our shared responsibility is to launch programmes and trainings, create an opportunity in Hungarian agriculture that gives young people an atmosphere, motivation and an attractive career in agriculture. The law on family farms discussed and adopted last year was an important step on this issue. One of the elements of the bill before us is the amendment of the Family Farms Act, which provides for a new opportunity to abolish the family farm of the original farmers if, at the joint decision of the members, they no longer wish to continue to function as a family farm of ancestors. The bill also contains an amendment facilitating the application of the law to the abolition of undivided common ownership so that the termination process can be done with understandable regulation and effectiveness, not bureaucracy, and not with time loss. The bill also amends the producer's contribution to the agricultural compensation scheme that has been in place since 2012. The increase in the contribution amount has been the first time since the system was almost ten years old. This is due to the negative effects of climate change and ever-increasing extreme weather on the natural environment and agricultural production. Of course, agricultural compensation is not a solution, but an important tool for farmers. Only together can we act effectively against the negative effects of climate change. We Hungarians can only contribute to this important objective by doing our own homework. This includes the government's large-scale climate protection programme, its national wooding programme, the greater use of solar energy than ever before, and our aim is to increase irrigated land by 100,000 hectares. I also consider it important for the government's commitment to multiply the capacity of solar power plants over a period of ten years, so that by 2030 at least 6,000 megawatts of solar power will be installed. We're doing very well on time. During the summer last year, the Hungarian solar power plants already provided more than 26 percent of the electricity produced in Hungary in record quantities. My fellow Member has also mentioned that it is important to resolve the question here that these solar panels do not occupy the fields, and do not occupy the valuable agricultural land. I think that this is also comforting, and, as my fellow Member has said, we can learn from examples and case-law in other countries, and that if they are right, we can put them into Hungarian practice. The current bill includes, in addition to the previous procedural order, the exemption from the protection of land, even if the construction or operation of the low-performance solar power plant is not initiated by the farmer's owner or farmer's user. However, the protection of agricultural land laid down in the Fundamental Law makes it essential that this exception applies only to agricultural land of less than average quality, and that the draft also sets a legal maximum for the quality of the land. The elements of the bill serve the interests of Hungarian agriculture, agricultural workers and, not least, consumers, so the KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-54	Mr. László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the opposition side, we often complicate the life of the Secretary of State, or, if the rapporteur is the Minister, then the Minister's life, by saying very good things about the materials prepared and presented by the wallet, and then often by giving unanimous support to these proposals. I'm sure you're sometimes told to be praised by the opposition. I hope you do not have a big problem with this in this sense, but it is certain that the wallet is one of the best or the best in the assessment of the government that I consider to be quite poor. Indeed, we have discussed and voted on a lot of proposals this week, which I think is outrageous. We usually have a long explanation of why we need a change of government. Few times in this context, the name of the agricultural purse is exactly the same as the number one reason, obviously, and this, by the way, leads to normal debates here in the House, and often to consensus. Well, that's not the case right now, and I'd like to say it and push it forward, and maybe the reason I don't want to be below the belt or jumping on that question is because I've had good impressions before. We can say that in this form we will not be able to support this proposal. There are specific reasons for this, some of which I will mention. I personally believe that, probably because of the original intentions, these will not be changed so much by the scope of the amendments, so I think that we will not submit so much, but I look forward to the proposals of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar. These things are a lot on the table, so I hope they're still like this, and we can support them. And let's not lose the possibility that the wallet might know, and then some kind of consensual state can be created, although I'm skeptical at this moment, I would like to say this. The goals that are said here in pro-government speeches, we have talked here many times over the last few years, and are absolutely, fully supported, legitimate goals: we have talked a lot about increasing the size of irrigated areas ourselves, it could be increased by hundreds of thousands of hectares, but if the number of irrigated areas in Hungary only increased by 100,000 hectares, I think that could also be a huge thing. The question is how much this proposal will serve this purpose. Solar parks. I think I have spoken a lot in this type of case, in green cases, in energy issues, in renewable energy myself, but let's say that Erzsébet Schmuck is in the room, too, many times, just to mention him here from the opposition side in this case. Obviously, these are all important matters, but 22 laws are being amended by this salad law, so obviously in addition to the fact that there are a lot of legislative harmonisation issues, in addition to having good goals, there are some controversial things in it, or I think there are some issues to be rejected, which I have to mention now. First, I would like to mention the brutal increase in the compensation fund, so this is what the pro-government speakers are overlooking, as if it were such a technical issue. He mentioned, indeed, my fellow Member Nacsa, but he did not really speak of the extent of it, he just mentioned it, and it is obviously also in the interest of the Chamber in this respect. A fee increase of about 50 percent is made in this, from 3000 forints/hectare to 4500 forints. I think that at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, this may not be the kind of thing that should be done at this point in time. This way, in this form, we obviously cannot support it. It was also about producer organisations. Here, a ministerial decree issued two years ago is legalized. 16/2019 on agricultural and rural development advisory activities and on the agricultural advisory system. Under the M Regulation, the Chamber of Agriculture has been authorised to register consultants without legal authorisation. That's what they want to settle here years later, which is understandable, but there's been a condition here for two years, and it's not okay. By amending the forest law, areas that are considered forest areas are now excluded from the scope of the law, for example, in the case of wild land, the owner decides to classify them. I'd put this on the table as a third. With regard to the protection of land, let us say, at least controversial or accessible from a variety of perspectives, it is possible to legalise facilities built without a permit, without penalty. I say, there may also be a number of views on this issue, but I think that the above-mentioned points are more serious than the fact that we are not in favour of this proposal this time. The tax authority may release the fine in connection with the recovery procedures, which I have yet to mention; and to put it this way, it is important to consider how the management of agricultural policy is directly developing here, what is the real division of tasks between the Chamber of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, as the field guards will also be assigned to the Chamber, so it is clear that the Chamber's significant weight is being shown here in the legislative process. [[12.40]] CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. As regards the amendment of the Act, it is also necessary to point out here, finally, that, in the context of the termination of the concession, the Constitutional Court established in 2015 and thus, six years ago, that the law was not contrary to the law, since Parliament did not establish the necessary rules for settlement between the parties. After about six years, this Ab resolution will only be complied with by the government side, and I think it can be said that this has also caused serious damage to the government side. According to statistics, 90 per cent of the cancelled benefit rights were affected by domestic right holders. To sum up, therefore, I think it is possible that these comments can be corrected by amendments, but I am now a little more sceptical: I think they are all not, because it would actually limit your original objectives here in the context of the law. So at this moment I can say that we cannot accept the bill in this form, but we look forward to it because of its diversity, so that it can be improved for the remainder of the parliamentary debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-56	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am not as generous as Mr László Varga, who thinks that with Parliamentary amendments this law could be improved. On the one hand, our experience is that we are relatively rarely accepted by the opposition amendment, and only if one of the members of the government takes it in his name, but in general, if they give us the truth in a professional sense, our fellow Members say that it is not acceptable for the opposition amendment to go through the NER system. Several of my fellow Members have spoken about the salad law, T/15987. amending certain agricultural legislation, which was submitted on 20 April at 23:12 p.m. I am only saying this because I sincerely hope that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén is sleeping on the basis of the laws, the agricultural purse is the rapporteur, that the person who is doing this work instead of the government, namely that he is submitting these bill at night, so that he is at least receiving some sort of supplement, because apparently you are sleeping on the dream of the righteous when your colleagues are forced to sit in front of ParLex's system, and these bill proposals are being submitted, while I think such a bill could have been submitted easily during working hours, because it was not as clearly complicated as so many legislative proposals have been in the past years, but in particular in the last week, in the interests of the NER. It is true that what has been said here from several of my fellow Members that the salad law has the genre, that when they wish to introduce technical amendments through several laws or to introduce European Union legislation on harmonisation, this is a good genre, as is usually the case, if, for example, large changes are to be introduced through laws, in such a salad law, government parties always work. I think this may not be objectionable, but in recent years we may have seen an exception here in the agricultural law, but this is only because I have read through the entire proposal on the pretext of salad laws, it is very often that legislative proposals, so to speak, are not compatible with each other. Therefore, when I saw that certain agricultural laws had been passed, I began to think, oh, my God, what else will they change on the pretext of this bill than on agricultural matters, but fortunately, here I can give a red point that the agricultural purse has now been removed. In general, we are used to the fact that the agricultural purse offers more breathtaking proposals, which are related to each area, where a substantial, good debate can otherwise be held. As has been said, 22 laws are proposed to be amended by this salad law, and I find it a baroque exaggeration to speak to those who have spoken of these technical amendments. If such amendments were to be made to harmonise legislation, I think it would be easy to support this bill, because it has been visible in recent years that in agricultural matters, although there are differences between us, there is, in principle, agreement in the House that, in the interests of farmers, opposition and pro-government representatives have been able to put aside their ideological debates and support legislative proposals which the government has submitted and which focus on one area. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the technical amendments, as you call them, are in many cases amendments which would require much more background information and background calculation. I would like to remind you that when it comes to T/13261. Mr Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of Fidesz, said that there are proper calculations for family farms, that everyone will benefit, and that it will be very good for everyone. I asked for this calculation, because mathematics is, at least, to say that in the normal numerical system, not in such an imaginary Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, but in the normal numerical system, he doesn't lie. Despite my request, I have not received this calculation from the Ministry, with the exception of a half-sided sketch and an invitation to use calculators, even though I believe that the calculations underlying the bill and the social debate that may have taken place behind it are never useless to opposition representatives. If we are to look at these legislative proposals now, I would not like to deal with all of them in detail, because, indeed, there is one that is technical, there should be a couple. The first is the bill on the protection of agricultural land. I think that there is no debate between us about the need to protect Hungarian agricultural land. I don't think there's any discussion either that if someone obviously wants to withdraw and use the soil for something else, there is a need for a thorough examination. I'd like to ask you why, in your general explanation, you'll also write that you'll be restored... Therefore, until December 2016, the scheme was in place to grant this ex post authorisation on the basis of an application and did not need this request between 31 December 2016 and 30 April 2020. What was that point, what was the moment at which it was made clear that the practice applied for decades was appropriate? What justified the five-year period between 2016 and 2021 where this was not necessary? We have seen in recent years that everyone around the Hungarian lands has been making fun of us and that they have tried to legalize certain illegal land withdrawals. We think it is right to try to stop this, and we think it is right that this can be linked to an application, but it is not understandable why the rule until 31 December 2016 has been changed, and why it has to be changed suddenly. Similarly, I have a question about the administrative service fee for the ground certification procedure. I'm sure you can tell me, and that's why I needed the background calculations, for example, as to why this fee couldn't be more than 220 thousand forints. What's 220,000 forints? How was that calculated? Why not HUF 159 612 or HUF 219 432? So what is the basis for this, because in most cases such fees are usually defined in some normative way, not in this way. [[12.50]] There's 39th. § what may have been said here by my fellow Member Varga is the matter of land protection fines and their contributions. So, I think that this type of fine and the waiver of their contributions are included in its name, land security contributions, so to protect the land, the remission of these debts is not for the protection of the land. Therefore, you need to give you a good reason why, while the tax authority is pouring in countless fines very quickly and immediately, in this case, this proposal is being made and why. I do not really want to talk about the National Council of Pálinka, because I do not really want to participate in this fight of your freedom, and frankly, I do not think it is good that, if we talk about Hungarian agriculture, most people will think of this schnapps-freedom fight, while Hungarian agriculture is about much more. There is too much puppetry around it, too much marketing and representation of someone's interests. It has already been said, when amending the Act on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, that it is completely incomprehensible that you, who are the government of the tax reduction, you who are agriculture, the nation, the government of everything, are raising the burden on farmers, why, instead of HUF 3000, the amount to be paid per hectare will now be HUF 4,500 and HUF 1000, because indeed, as my fellow Members have said, in recent years, they have always talked about how everything is okay with the compensation fund. So, if for no other reason, I'm sure this bill cannot be supported. With regard to the raggrass, which perhaps Mr Horváth has spoken about, how important the fight against raggrass is, I do not think we have a debate here. Then why don't you return to the register the money that the Hungarian citizens had previously added up from 1 percent of the tax to fight ragweed, and you didn't spend it specifically, but on your predecessor, the large-viewing shoe-cleaning device, diplomatic bag and stationery? I believe that the fight against ragweed begins, my fellow Members, where the Hungarian state spends 1 percent of the civilian volunteered by its citizens on what these citizens have given them. I'm sorry, I'm sure it wasn't a cell phone, it wasn't an electric bill, but it certainly wasn't a shoe-cleaning device, it was a fight against the grass. So what I would like to suggest is that before you present yourselves here as the greatest environmentalists, the approximately 600 million forints that were sunk off somewhere in the past are also withdrawn, and the 500 million that were then accounted for, and that is to be reclaimed, because that 500 million was not about protecting from ragweed, but that it was about being different, to say, quite weird, interesting, amusing and perhaps surprising things that were spent on cake, among other things. I would like to point out that I am very pleased that if there is a Ministry of Agriculture, and I will be less pleased that there will be an agricultural Ministry II, because at the moment the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture is starting to organize into such a second agricultural ministry by handing over the various powers and tasks. Let's just say I'm not surprised at that, because we can see that the Fidesz-KDNP people of the State Party have also been settled at the same time around the Ministry, and then at the same time at the Agriculture Committee, now apparently in the vicinity of the Chamber of Agriculture and in the area of Magos. I think you should decide where the power center is, because at some point there will be a problem; not for us, for you, or for the people who are monitoring agricultural laws and monitoring other government measures in this regard. On the subject of undivided common property, my fellow Members remember, we had quite a lot and a good debate in the Parliament. I would like to suggest to you that it was very, very hasty at the time, because we can safely say that we had to repay decades of debt in order to do something about the undivided common property. So, the legislation was in a hurry. I just want to ask you if that division program is already working. It's April 30th. Is the dealer program you guys were talking about working? Because this extremely rapid legislation should, however, be followed by an extraordinary, even greater, application of law, and it is not really experienced by those who have come into this division of undivided common property in such a situation. In this connection, I would also like to say that it is certainly not acceptable, and it is not a technical amendment at all, as you say, that, when undivided joint ownership is removed, the existing contracts in this area will not remain in force. They must remain in force, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members. I understand you're trying to give a certain level of advantage to the encapsulaters, but I don't think that's right at all. Basically we can say about this bill, my fellow Members, that in a small part it is due to your rather poor codification work and the fact that it is clearly intended to serve someone's interests again. So don't get me wrong, I don't dispute that you have a much better understanding of agriculture, who have been sitting here in Parliament or in various professional organisations for several decades, and who know a field. As Secretary of State Farkas mentioned earlier on a bill about the good old times, you mentioned these periods. I can't comment on what they were like. But what I do know and see is that, while you have the professional ability to move forward on the subject of agriculture, and to move forward on this country, and to achieve the modernisation, the digitalization, the generation change we have been talking about for a long time, it is often replaced or almost always replaced by the fact that you have a prime minister who works with stooges in this country. That kind of attitude, that kind of money hunger [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, he overrides professionalism a lot, and I'm very sorry about that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-30-58	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Once again, we can see that the government is creating laws without social or even professional discussions. In such complex, packed laws, the practice quickly shows the maladministration of the legislation, the problematic points of the application, so it is necessary to amend the laws adopted in salad law just a few months ago. Obviously, salad laws are important in order not to know why and what it was made of, that the true intentions of the legislation should be hidden, so that it is not revealed that the government is doing an invaluable quality work and that the laws of this type of salad are pushed through the hidden paragraphs of the law that corresponds to the moonyard. The only laws that should be treated as unity should be those that are modified, logically, in substance, together. We've said this many times, but they didn't listen. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is a good feature of legislation that the law on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields adopted just six months ago must already be amended at least fifty points. In addition, there are several changes in the current changes concerning which the opposition had previously tabled an amendment, since it was already apparent that the regulation needed clarification and improvement. Of course, self-respect is important. But rejecting an amendment is only because the opposition has submitted it is a little irresponsible. What if, for once, they were actually working for the good of the country? [[13.00]] And speaking of the country's interests, what do you think is the country's interest in protecting land? Do we agree that agricultural land is one of Hungary's most valuable treasures? What national interest could there be that overrides the importance of soil protection? According to this law, solar power plants are built like this. Is it more important to generate electricity than food? We'll ask. We don't even understand why these two things have to compete at all. The planting of solar parks and solar power plants on land should not be facilitated! However, the bill does so by abolishing the obligation of the real estate authority to permit solar power plants under half-megawatts in fields of less than average quality, even if it is not the farmer's owner, but, for example, an oligarch that establishes a solar farm. ELTE is this way! In addition to appropriate energy efficiency measures, its research has demonstrated that the country's solar demand can be covered by the use of existing roof surfaces and other built-in areas. Even the justification for the bill itself states that, even during the installation of solar power plants, priority should be given to brownfield areas instead of using land. It is a pity that the amendment is contrary to this. It is okay that if Fidesz is not aware of the proper use of solar panels, there are experts who should be asked before the legislation, and then the laws that are favourable to the country could be created. It cannot be explained by the interests of the country that the planting of solar panels is permitted in agricultural land or even significantly facilitated by legislation. It's in the best interest of some speculators. And while we are at the farmland, the same salad law, which does not open the door to the planting of solar panels on land, but opens the door wide, changes the law on the protection of land at other points as well. It is a very important and welcome goal for land users to be more aware of the protection of land. However, this should start with the proper information of farmers and the organisation of training courses, not with a new administrative burden on them. The introduction of such an obligation without a genuine education and information campaign is only in the interest of a limited group of consultants who will prepare these farm and soil protection programmes. The draft law does not distinguish between the obligations of the owner of a 500-square-metre garden and the obligations of a giant owner holding 5000 hectares. Such a change has to be introduced more carefully, along with the development of detailed rules, so that it is not about paying 100,000 to 1 million forints to all land users. According to the present form of the paragraph, it will create only a 10 to 100 billion HUF professional advisory market, where farmers' soil protection programmes will be prepared, without real, substantial progress in soil protection. If their aim is to create a consulting market and to pull off land users, they are on the right track. Let's stick to protecting the soil a little longer. If we are serious about the protection of soil as one of the major key points of our country's long-term competitiveness, it is necessary that the bill not only deals with technical changes to soil protection fines. The amount of the land protection contribution has been unchanged since 2013. In the agglomeration and around the larger cities, fungal modes are multiplied by logistics parks, industrial sites, and smaller or larger investments. For these capital-powered enterprises, the land protection contribution is only a small item in the cost. Therefore, LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, thinks that the protection of agricultural land is really important, and that is why we want companies to take into account the quality of the land they build on when choosing the area of investment. The easiest way to do this is to increase the protection contribution, such as tenfold, such as the automotive investment near Debrecen, not a few, but a few ten million forints of land protection contributions per hectare. At the same time, it is necessary to delete the exemption from land protection contributions for the construction of low-performance power plants, because it cannot be intended for the country to line up solar parks at the site of the land. I think the Secretary of State agrees with this, but according to the bill, this seems to be the government's goal. Another bill that has also been tabled would make this easier. Under the new legislation, outside the territory, the service provider no longer has to strive to ensure that the conduction of the track is primarily carried out in a public area. If you design solar panels for houses, existing buildings, then you don't have to carry the wires through the agricultural fields either, since the network is typically built in the first place. The solar panel is one of the cheapest and greenest energy sources, which is supported by LMP, but I very, very much stress that it is not planted on land, we are protecting the soil. With regard to the amendment of the Land Traffic Act, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is still a lack of an implementing regulation of the Land Traffic Act, which would finally specify the conditions for the exercise of the right to pre-purchase and pre-lease, thereby eliminating the failure to comply with the law. However, we can find a number of amendments that violate the interests of the landlord. In a sector such as agriculture, where the fruits of hard work can always be reaped months, but often only years later, it is not permissible for the tenant to be unable to plan long-term, predictablely in his rented areas. But the bill doesn't treat forest owners any better. Laws are gradually restricting forest owners' rights to the extent that no one will be interested in forestry. Climate change and air pollution are just two reasons to protect our existing forest areas. I think it's in our mutual interest to maintain our forest areas. The LMP will recommend the establishment of a forest conservation program. In the programme, we want to help small forest owners who have typically received compensation, may have inherited these small forest areas, do not want to deal with forest management, and are often very eager to get rid of their forest. We would like to help you preserve these forests as a forest. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, that you no longer care about Hungarian apples. What action justifies no longer having to include in writing import apple processing contracts? Why is it no longer important where and at what price apples are imported for processing? Do you think it's better if you don't have a view of any organization's contract? Do you think that the fruit-growing sector has been so profitable in recent years and that Hungarian apple growers no longer need help? Or did they specifically ask you to bring in import apples for even simpler, pennies? Unfortunately, the only reason for the law was to clarify codification. We do not think that codification is a clarification, if the former apple, cherry text is replaced by the. cherry and the apple is left out. Unsubstantiated is the reason why we are forced to suspect that there are completely different reasons behind the amendment, even though the apple is healthy, as you know. The LMP has tabled several amendments to these points, and we hope that they will support our amendments. Thank you for your attention. Unfortunately, Mr Secretary, I have to leave, but we will study your reply thoroughly in the minutes. Thank you very much. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2021-04-30-60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I was only inspired by the pro-government voice of Lőrinc Nacsa, which I am forced to respond to. So I understand that OMSZ has already performed meteorological activities and has made forecasts here in our airspace. But that is not the issue here, but, for example, HungaroControl Zrt. its staff, in this case they operate at Liszt Ferenc Airport, there is the site. [[13.10]] For example, this amendment does not include what will happen to them. You're moving in with the OMS? Because there is no quality and quantity of the tools required for their work. If they stay at the original site, what is the need for restructuring? Let us not go aside from becoming government officials now, and this will mean a step backwards for them in the wage, which will result in not everyone assuming to take on the new job, and yet aviation safety is being damaged. I didn't want to go into all the details, but it should also be said that this type of outsourcing was not first invented in Hungary, it has been tried in several countries in Europe. The only thing they have in common is that they're trying to push them all back, because in every case safety is damaged, because they're trying to save money on what they shouldn't. To conclude, HungaroControl, in the years of peace, meant that before Covid, with more than ten million regular passengers in Ferihegy, the budget was paid in the order of HUF 10 billion. I just wanted to add these to the reactions of my fellow Member Nacsa, because without them, I think his request for the Independent Trade Union of Air Traffic Control would be misunderstood. With all this new information in mind, I urge you to reconsider. Thank you.
u2021-04-30-62	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr György Czerván, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a classic salad law, which contains a number of minor or larger amendments, but which are necessary or timely for various reasons. Of these, I would like to comment on a very topical and important issue concerning the amendment of the land protection rules. According to Article P of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, and cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, whose protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations are the duty of the state and everyone. This provision of the Fundamental Law further improved this system of values compared to the previous wording of the Constitution by saying that as long as the Constitution only emphasized State obligations, the Fundamental Law talks about the obligations of everyone, including civil society and every citizen. In other words, the protection of land beyond the state is also the duty of all natural and legal persons. The National Creed already indicates that Hungary is committed to protecting the natural and built environment of the Carpathian Basin within the framework of sustainable development, given the people of today and future generations alike. The National Creed clearly refers to the principle of sustainable development, which is explicitly named in Article Q of the Fundamental Law in a way that Hungary seeks to cooperate with all peoples and countries of the world for the sustainable development of mankind. Development is sustainable if the development of the economy leads to a continuous social improvement within the limits of ecological sustainability, preserving natural resources for future generations. Our natural resources must therefore be protected and maintained in a sparing way, taking into account the interests of future generations, and produced by ensuring the most efficient use, minimizing the adverse effects of land use. The economic and social development of the coming decades is expected to be influenced by the scarcity of natural resources, such as drinking water, energy and agricultural land. In the absence of restrictions, the long-term sustainability of agricultural production cannot be ensured. The Law on the Protection of Land is intended to prevent land from being unduly victimised. Investment in agricultural land, driven only on the basis of short-term economic benefits, not only reduces the amount of the most important agricultural assets, but also hampers or even makes it impossible for them to develop in the future. Improving investment drive is an economically eligible objective, as it is very important for the country's development that investment has resulted in economic growth, job creation and all the goals that could lead to economic growth in the country, the region or the municipality. However, the way in which investment can be selected should be such that priority values, such as land protection, cannot be raised above the protection of priority values. The main purpose of the land-protection authorisation procedures for other uses of land is to avoid using agricultural land in the first place for investments, in order to achieve the objectives of urban development, but, if this is unavoidable, at least the use of land of lower quality. In other words, the aim is to prevent excessive, unjustified initiatives for other purposes and to make the necessary use of land of less than average quality; to protect land resources, to limit the use of land for other purposes, to recycle abandoned areas, to invest in greenfields and to plant forests, to use land of lower quality only, to harmonise land use functions with as little land loss as possible, and to encourage brownfield investments. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I consider it important that this amendment to the law on the installation of solar power plants has been made in good time. A key government target is the increased use of renewable energy in Hungary, one important element of which is the development of solar energy production. We are about to build thousands of hectares of solar power, and it is very right that the proposal sets out a multi-stage system to determine their location. In particular, brownfield areas should be preferred rather than using land. In this case, land protection rules shall not apply mutatis mutandis. In the case of the planting of solar power plants on land, the use of land for other purposes shall be exempt from the permit of the real estate authority if the land is used for the purpose of the installation and operation of a low-performance power plant by a farmer or farmer. This provision is beneficial for the diversification of agricultural producers, i.e. the multi-legged position. However, if the installation and operation of a low-performance power plant is not initiated by the farmer or farmer, it may only take place on land of less than average quality and not more than 15 golden crowns per hectare without any other exploitation process. With the adoption of the elements of this bill, we can take a step in the same time and in the right direction for the responsible management of our land assets and through this for the development of Hungarian agriculture and rural development. I propose and ask all of you to vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-64	Thank you. Two-minute comments from Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2021-04-30-65	Thank you, Mr. President. There were very nice words here from the National Creed and sustainability. We're definitely in agreement with each and every one of them. But then I would ask if you could give me a percentage of how much the productive capacity of the Hungarian soil has increased in a sustainable way over the last 11 years. Obviously, he cannot give such a number, because it has not increased, but has also decreased the average production capacity of the Hungarian agricultural land in the last 11 years, because there has not been any decision, no process has started that advocated the opposite. [[13.20]] Unfortunately, the current amendment is not one of these. For example, the privatisation of public land could not increase the average productive capacity of Hungarian agricultural land, not even because, logically, as long as the Hungarian state is the owner and not necessarily the goal of maximising profits on a given hectare of agricultural land, the most important thing for a private owner is to be able to make a proper living from that land. For example, I do not believe that the outsourcing of Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates into the foundation property, which was discussed this week, would result in an increase in the productive capacity of the agricultural land or the greenfield investment of the already mentioned MotoGP track. So once again, my problem is that we have been hearing nice words about this for 11 years now, which, once again, can be completely agreed with every part of it, then in practice we either get nothing or only very weak solutions that do not achieve results. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-66	Thank you. The word also belongs to Ágnes Vadai, DK. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-30-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am always happy to hear you talk about the preservation of national wealth, the ladies and gentlemen who are sitting in front of me and the environment and the importance of agriculture. I have just a few questions about this, such as Congressman Czerván. With regard to Kishantos, I could say that there was nothing there, and it turned out that they weren't even right, and your secretary of state, as it was clear in court, lied about Kishantos. What is this sudden love for the kind of love of national wealth that serves citizens? In your last 11 years, national wealth has meant that they wanted national wealth for themselves, as the Hungarian Congressman has just said in connection with Mezőhegyes. They filled the board of directors of Mezőhegyes with such great people as the clapping master, and there are a million of us in Kossuth Square, with Rákay Philip. I ask you very nicely to explain to us here, as the Hungarian Congressman has asked, today, perhaps because it is the day of the bees and it is a good day, or because tomorrow we can go to a match, why is there such a sudden enlightenment in the importance of national wealth and the protection of the environment. In recent years, they simply gave their friends the national wealth, where they could, cemented our natural resources, and now in relation to the agricultural land, but also in connection with others, they suddenly loved the national wealth important to the Hungarian people, as well as the environmental protection important to future generations and many responsible politicians. I am increasingly excited that this amendment to certain agricultural legislation is not just about technical, not about content, but about something much worse and more. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see anyone. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When we started this debate, which was not intended to be a debate, when we began to negotiate this proposal here, within the walls of the House, I thought that we would be part of a debate without anger, perhaps. We did not get this back here in a significant way from one or two speakers. However, I must make an important response, and not in the timetable of speeches, but in the final line of thought of our last member of the House of Vada, why national wealth is important to us. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the first aspect of civil government has always been that national wealth should remain and function. In the same way, I would like to stress that if you say anything about this, I must strongly reject it because it has no truth. And the fact that we are thinking in the future is that we want to ensure security, predictability and, last but not least, a safe livelihood from the Hungarian agricultural land, we also have concrete proposals for this, but we have practical examples today to achieve this. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to try, as far as possible, to respond to the speeches in the short time at my disposal. István Horváth, with the points he made here, we can agree and accept not only in a significant part, but all of them. I'd rather have a brief comment here. I would like to confirm your reference to seed quality in relation to the pandemic. I usually bring up examples in every debate or conversation, not only in my political but also in my private life, which comes from personal experience. During the spring of last year, when we were devastated by the pandemic in March, everyone ran away, everyone went to garden stores, shops, seed shops, and practically everyone bought everything. I think he realized that there were a lot of gardeners and gardeners when it was a month, a month and a half, and on the black ground he found soil without rows, not hatched plants. That was the case for me personally, though it was a professional disregard for me, because I should have looked at the back of that little box or bag when the warranty expired. I went through a number of shops and found out, and confirmed that the population had practically all the seeds that existed, whatever, excuse the expression, removed from these shops, and the traders also sold expired seed in the same way. And then we wondered, personally, that only a grain or two of peas had hatched from the grain of peas. This is precisely the question of how important it is that in what capacity, with what certificate and with what security we can not only produce these propagating material and seeds but also put them on the market, and later on give all farmers working in agriculture a basic security. Because it's the same as a breeding animal, same as a seed. If I have good seed and propagating material, then one of the basic conditions of my farming can be guaranteed. That is why it is important that the wording and the thoughts that my fellow Member, István Horváth, has said on this point, and I would just like to confirm that. And the fact that hundreds of thousands of hectares have come out of farming over the last thirty years is partly welcome, but as farmers, we regret this, of course, because most of these areas, as I mentioned earlier, have been used to develop infrastructure in a significant part. This contributes to the improvement of our quality of life and contributes to improving our daily lives. Of course, it would be nice to avoid this, but I think it's impossible. Whoever lives and sees the country in practice, sees the countryside, sees the capital city, also sees that land growth, agglomerations, industrial parks, residential parks largely take away agricultural areas and agricultural areas. The ragweed. There are many referrals for the expression in Members' speeches, and many have raised similar thoughts. Of course, it comes from this salad law that the questions are so diverse, but they tried to ask certain questions in the same way. For example, the question of ragweed, which is not yet here, but this season will come soon, not only the frosts will pass, but also the ragweed infection will come in from one moment to the next. I think that the government has done a great deal in this, and the farmers and farmers have done a great deal. At the same time, if we look at it and I don't want to hurt the municipalities, but I can't bypass it in my mind, I'm convinced that agriculture is not the biggest ragweed infection in the country. I definitely have to decline that. There may be one or two farmers, one or two farmers who can't sterilize the edge of the board, they can't provide weed-free stock, I don't think that's out of the question, but I'm not going any further around Budapest, and we see that there's a series of abandoned areas, road edges, railway sides, trench beaches, unbuilt, unbuilt land. [[13.30]] Interestingly, no one gets punished? Only farmers in agriculture? It would be good to look at this area, and not simply to draw on agricultural history, the owners and owners of these areas, in the same way. I say this firmly that I can reject it on the part of agriculture, because I know that in agriculture they are trying to do everything they can to reduce the risk of infection. Its basic purpose is for the farmer, because it is a type of weed that suppresses the cultural plant, and its crop will be less if I want to translate it very simply. I would therefore also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to this. He asks so many questions to the leaders of the Ministry of Agriculture that one department will answer your questions every week. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai will spread his arms.]] It would be better if you went to the capital in this, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those thoughts about veterinary training are all right, and that regulation will also be in line with all aspects. Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member, I do not think that I will answer every line of thought to the increase in the agricultural compensation fund, saying that it is another tax increase. Congressman, you may not be able to think about anything but a tax increase, but it's not a tax increase, it's a fee, it hasn't changed in ten years. Interestingly, in recent years there has been so much damage that requires a certain increase, it is inevitable. But it's not tax, it's a contribution that if I suffer damage, I will safely recover some of the damage suffered. And when we talk about the compensation fund, we know that in recent years, especially in the last year, there may still be a problem, and I don't want to be ominous because of the spring frost damage, there has been much more damage than the amount of damage in the compensation fund. One part of the compensation fund is paid by the farmer and the other part is added by the State. I suppose you know that very well. And the scythe is exhausted, if I may say so. [[Intervention on the opposition side.]] The register is exhausted, yes, because it is defined in the law, I kiss your hand! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I think Lőrinc Butcher...]] Leave this Ripper Gunnery always here. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] We're talking about agriculture! Allow me to answer the questions, and don't keep me here from being a Ripper Lawrence. (László Földi takes his place in the notary seat. ) With regard to yesterday, I would also like to talk about the compensation fund... and return to the thought of my fellow Member Horváth, how important it is, what materials, what grafts, what seed we are working with. Yesterday, with regard to spring frost damage, we held a meeting with fruit tree breeders and interested parties in the Ministry to discuss how these frost damage, which has so drastically hit us in recent years, could be prevented, but its effects should be mitigated. Asking for the opinions of professionals, which we do, and I would also like to reject the idea that we do not ask for the opinion of the profession, we do not consider ourselves smart on every subject, so I have to say that this is where it turns out that a significant part of the apricot production area has been frozen this spring. But why did it freeze? Because of the cold? Yeah, sure, we'll say it's the frost. But there is another reason: in the last 20 years, practically apricot breeding is no longer in the country. We bring in the Mediterranean breeds, they drive producers crazy that these Mediterranean breeds are beautiful, big and all, but they can't withstand more than minus 4 degrees, finished, finished. It's practically a reorganization of the market. I'm just saying how important it is to involve the profession. For this reason, the agricultural government is launching a breeding programme for certain endangered plants or even fruit plants, which is very long-term, because results cannot be achieved in five years, but yet those varieties are involved, involving species that can be protected by a later flowering. That's why the compensation fund is important, which is why we all have to say a little bit more to add. With regard to the aviation issues you raised, Congressman. Allow me to answer this more firmly and to quote a thought:. Before changing the order of the flight meteorological service, careful preparations have been made, and more than six months of full investigation has been carried out. The HungaroControl and the OMSZ, therefore, together with the National Meteorological Service, decided to standardise aviation meteorological services by examining technical, economic, meteorological and aviation safety aspects with external experts. Detailed documentation has been provided on the tasks and obligations required for the changeover. I think it is not the task of the union to deal with these professional issues, but the task of professionals. You have referred to a trade union petition, and I would ask you to address this issue in an appropriate manner. Ladies and gentlemen, Solar Battery, everyone raised that. It was a painful point for me, too, that solar parks could be set up everywhere, even where there are really good fields of land. Now that we know solar panels and properly built power lines in 15 golden crowns of land, this is another issue, I think, a huge step forward and it is for the protection of the soil. That there is no overlap between the brownfields and the construction of solar parks, there is some truth in this, I do not dispute that, but we must clearly strive, if possible, to use the fields under the 15 golden crowns or even under 10 and indeed to exploit the brownfield areas. But there is another problem, and I would just like to draw your attention to this, as the brownfield areas have rehabilitation, a restoration, the cost of eliminating potential pollution or cleaning up ruins can be a new task, a new topic. But, of course, in this significant part, brownfield areas must also be taken into account in the long term. You have referred to it and I would therefore just like to draw your attention to the fact that you will be submitting amendments. I would like to offer your attention and regret that yesterday, Thursday, the deadline for this has expired. Thank you, Mr Nacsa, for your support from the KDNP. He also defined generational change, attractive agriculture for young people and predictable conditions for food safety. Thank you for your support and your thoughts. Congressman László Varga says that he is not supported. He thinks the work of agriculture is good, thank you very much for your appreciation, but that is not the case now. I don't know why he's changing from one moment to the next. Is it because a salad law is being presented in order to refine, balance, and adapt to the new conditions of some laws, so to speak, the new conditions of practical life? I think it's a natural thing that sometimes these laws need to be adapted to correct everyday problems. I do not think that there is anything wrong with that, but it is, unfortunately, a common custom behind the scenes of Parliament. He said he was skeptical about the amendments, and we hope he'll change his mind. Several raised the link between the Chamber of Agriculture and the Agricultural Ministry. I would like to say that this relationship is completely professional, a good relationship. In those suggestions, I always feel such a surkapiska when I want to instigate the two organizations, so to speak, against each other and play against each other. [[13.40]] I am definitely saying that there is no truth in this. Perhaps it is that I would like the opposition parties to see that this harmony, which has a great working relationship, does not work the way it should. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Yeah, I'll tell you... I would like to respond to Congresswoman Schmuck. He also started from solar parks. He says it's land conservation issues, investments; here he also says it's going to increase the land protection contribution tenfold. This is not a tax, I would like to say, so I would also like to reject this. And here's a government decree, Government Decree 474/2013, which defines the issues related to the pre-emption right that he has outlined. I think it is important to mention that there is an unprecedented national foresting and planting programme in the country; who does not realize this... Of course, those who are not in the countryside do not know this, but I have to say that if we go through the villages, the smaller settlements, there are more than a thousand settlements that have started the wooding program of the settlements, from the time of the baby-wrestling through the baby programme, through the doubled support of the various forest farmers, the private forest farmers have also been very involved, if I may say so, in this system, and they are doing a great deal to increase the Hungarian forest festivities and the Hungarian forest areas. With regard to the apple you raised, my fellow Member Schmuck, I suggest that you read the law accurately. A few reactions to Mrs Vadai, although I have already made a number of references here. How much change the salad law causes, you know that's not true. That we need more background, more information. As I said at first, I think that you will receive a lot of such background information from one or two of your daily questions, honourable Member. I think you have the most continuous information in the opposition Parliament, and I would like to say that. But I don't think you can argue with that, Madam honourable Member. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't say that...]] Okay, thank you very much. Land rating fee. He raised this 220,000 forints. I'd like to be more specific here. The upper limit of the ground certification process is HUF 220,000. I would like to make it clear that between 50,000 and 100,000 square meters there are 36 thousand forints, 20 thousand forints for every 100 thousand square metres, so for 100 hectares there are roughly 220 thousand forints. So it's limited to a maximum of 100 hectares. That's just for clarification. And how the dealer program works, that was another crucial question. The distribution program is ready, unfortunately, because of the emergency, we still couldn't get started, so we're gonna need a few days of patience, and we're gonna start the program. Your political remarks regarding the Ministry of Agriculture and the Law should be your personal right, which I strongly reject from the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1998 XXVI on the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities. Act and CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The submission submitted by Gergely Tapolczai, the Fidesz representative, is the T/15981. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-30-71	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, My proposal concerns two laws, as we have just heard, the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Hungarian Sign Language Act. In the case of my proposal relating to the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, I would like to take this opportunity to commemorate it and to draw attention to the fact that since 1994 we have been celebrating World Day for Guided Dogs on the last Wednesday of April of each year. For more than a hundred years, guide dogs have been trained in Europe. Especially in the world war, blind soldiers became known as guide dogs and trainers. In Hungary, however, the training of guide dogs started only in 1978, thanks to János Rithnovszky, who was injured by a mine explosion at the age of 21 in 1952, lost his left arm and vision. From then on, he devoted his whole life to helping his comrades. As early as 1961, he wrote a book entitled "Training the Guide Dog," creating the basis for the training of guide dogs in Hungary. The training itself, as I mentioned, started in 1978, and from then until 2002 alone the Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives was the organization that dealt with this training. Since then, several foundations and NGOs have been involved in the training of dogs. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Since 1978, nearly a thousand dogs have been trained. Currently, about 80 people are using a guide dog and dozens of dogs are currently being trained. This also shows how important this area is, and how important it is to train dogs who help live independently in Hungary. My amendment aims to facilitate this and to regulate and clarify training. In the field of assistance dog training and training, it is important that not only the examination but also the whole process of training be regulated, so we ask the Minister responsible for social and pension policy, and we ask that he be authorised to establish the relevant rules in order to improve the applicability of professional training and testing. I also submitted a similar proposal regarding the Sign Language Act, on the basis of a proposal from the Defence Organisation, the National Association of Deafs and Hearers. I also propose that the Minister for Social and Pension Policy set out in a regulation a special set of requirements for training sign language interpreters and deaf interpreters and his regulatory system, as this can only be guaranteed through appropriate regulation in the new vocational training structure. Turning to my other amendments to the Sign Language Act, it is worth looking back a little bit. In 2007, the Hungarian Parliament unanimously adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which gave us a great boost to accept unanimously one of the world's most complex sign language laws in the Hungarian Parliament in 2009. [[13.50]] Thanks to the Sign Language Act, the construction of the current structure of the interpreter service has been launched, which has continued to operate with public funding. This is why the subtitles are extended. Since 2010, we have achieved a gradual rise in the number of hours when TV shows are being subtitled almost all day today. In 2011, the protection of Hungarian sign language as part of Hungarian culture was a major step forward. There was a huge leap in the life of the Hungarian deaf and hearing people, when the so-called KontAKT video-based sign language interpreter service was launched. This has resulted in a huge improvement in quality of life in our community. And last year, the most important milestone was the amendment of the Sign Language Act, when we all allowed our unanimous vote to open up from 1 July 2021 an examination of the Hungarian sign language, i.e. anyone who learns Hungarian sign language and wants to take a language exam, instead of the previous system, can now take a language exam of the same value from this language as any other foreign language. Turning to one of the most important elements of my amendment proposal: if we look at the current regulation, the eligible customer, deaf or hearing user, is entitled to 120 hours of free sign language translation service per year. You may also be entitled to a special watch frame. At present, this seems to be possible in the field of education for students in high school, 120 hours/year, 60 hours/semester for higher education students and 20 per cent of the total number of hours of training for adults. We see that the current legislation does not include kindergarten education and children participating in primary school education. In addition to the individual basic watch frame, the law does not provide an extra watch frame. Based on the experience of the past 11 years and on the proposal of the Association of Interest Protection and the National Association of Deafs and Hearers, the situation is ripe for change. I just want to give you an example. For example, when you look at a first - grade student who is an integrated student, he has about 24 classes a week, which means he attends 860 classes in a school year. At the same time, the individual's watch frame, linked to the interpretation service, is 120 hours. If you calculate that a lesson is 45 minutes, you can calculate that it can be interpreted in 160 hours. However, he cannot use interpretation for 700 hours. Of course, it is also true that not all classes need an interpreter, physical education or singing lessons are obviously not required; they also receive an exemption from singing, but it can also be seen that 120 hours is not enough for a school year. In the light of all this, what has been said and the proposals made by SINOSZ, my amendment proposes a two-stage increase. The two-step increase dates are 1 January 2022 and 1 July 2023. The first step in kindergarten education would be 150 hours/year and the second step would be 200 hours/year of education, 300 hours and 400 hours in primary and secondary schools, 150 hours and 200 hours/semester in the case of day school, and 100 hours/semester in the case of correspondence in higher education. In the case of adult education, the clock frame would rise from 20 percent to 40 percent and then 60 percent. It is a very important new proposal to be able to require an extra 50 hours per year in the area of employment, for example, for individuals who are self-employed or who employ workers in their own business. Therefore, if the employer does not provide interpretation to the hearing-damaged worker, these persons and workers should have the opportunity to use an extra 50 hours of interpretation. In the case of deaf blinds, we would increase 30 hours of interpretation for special communication aspects. Just as it was very important in the case of language examinations, especially in terms of employment, and the current amendment is of particular importance for kindergarten and primary school education, and it is important for the parents of children, it would be a great step forward to improve the quality of their independent lives, and thus give them a better chance of gaining higher education and qualifications. If I looked back, 25 years ago, when I went to law school, I could count on my two hands how many people with hearing problems were studying in higher education. Now, according to 2017 data, 216 hearing-damaged students are studying in higher education institutions. Since then, I am sure that this number has also increased, so you can see the development and you can see the continuous growth in this regard. I am sure that this proposal will take this matter further. To do this, I ask the support of all the factions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Attila Philip, Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-04-30-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In a short time, it is now the second time that Parliament has discussed the amendment to the Sign Language Act, and, as Congressman Gergely Tapolczai has just said, it is known to all of us that the sign language law was created after a longer process of development. It was also a milestone, as it was said, that Hungary was the first to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which includes sign language obligations and ensures the use of the sign language necessary for people with disabilities, such as hearing impairments and deaf blinds, thereby significantly improving their standard of living. It has been more than a decade since the moment when, in the general debate of the Sign Language Act, MEP Ádám Kósa spoke here in Parliament for the first time in Hungarian sign language. After that, a law was adopted that complexly resolves life situations affecting the daily lives of hearing-damaged people, making a huge step towards the social integration of deaf, deaf, and deaf blind people. The Parliament supported this without abstention or vote against. Another decisive step was taken in 2011, because at that time Hungary joined the ranks of the few states which laid down in the basic law that it considered sign language to be part of national culture and thus protected it accordingly. More than 70,000 deaf and hearing people live in Hungary. They have an old dream and a desire to fully exercise their communication rights. The Sign Language Act has made it a mandatory state task to finance the free sign language translation service and to subtitle television programmes or to interpret sign language. [[14.00]] For them, not the voices, but the signs, not the spoken Hungarian language, but the Hungarian sign language are the primary means of communication. For deaf people, sign language is the basis for their communication and culture. This is the channel on which they are able to express their thoughts and emotions at the native level and through which they can get information the easiest and safest. The equal access of deaf people to education, culture and public services can therefore be largely guaranteed by the legal regulation of the use of sign language, by the adoption of a sign language law that complexly resolves life situations affecting the everyday lives of hearing-damaged people. Hungary has taken a huge step towards the social integration of deaf, deaf and deaf people. Dear House, Mr Gergely Tapolczai and Mr Zsolt Nyitrai already submitted a package of proposals to amend the law almost exactly a year ago. One of the most important and symbolic elements of last year's amendment was highlighted by the former Member, and this was when recognition of sign language as a state-recognized language exam is now possible. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The motion before you is yet another motion to ensure a wide range of communication rights for hearing-damaged people. The primary objective of the current amendment is to ensure that deaf and hearing people have the same chance of accessing public services, to access high-quality education, vocational training and vocational training according to their needs, so that they can enter the open labour market and be able to manage their lives independently in all areas. In addition to the above, the bill also introduces provisions authorising the rights of persons with disabilities, on the one hand, and on the other, the Sign Language Act, on the other hand, so that the proposal creates legal powers to establish rules at ministerial level for the training, examination and applicability of assistance dogs and for the professional and examination requirements of aid dogs, as well as for the training of sign language and deaf language teachers. As has been said, according to the bill, it can be achieved by providing individual watch frames and raising existing watch frames so that deaf children can be integrated into the system of public education and, in their studies, by means of communication barriers, do not suffer disadvantages from their childhood and preschool age. Further increase in existing timeframes will help to improve quality education at higher grades and to increase the inclusion of learning materials. The additional hours of 120 hours per person per year above the basic time frame should also be provided for deaf and hearing persons who are related to the world of work, since accurate, high-quality work is essential for the clear communication of the employees who are issuing and performing the job or of the customer who commissioned the task and the contractor performing the task. A preventive rehabilitation process is often required for deaf blind persons, in which an appropriate special communication method can be selected. In this preventive process, it is also necessary to include the sign language interpreter, increase the number of hours, acknowledge the additional time needed for work and special communication systems. Dear House, The government is committed to making the lives of our hearing-damaged compatriots accessible and protecting sign language. Its main task is to ensure that all people with disabilities have the opportunity to live a full life. People with disabilities do not expect charity, but wish to be equal members of our society. The government works for a society in which both disabled and healthy people find their place. We believe that good solutions can be found through active dialogue and understanding of the disabled target group. We will continue to do so in the future. It is always of particular importance when the Parliament negotiates a proposal concerning people with disabilities. As I mentioned earlier, sign language is the basis for communication and culture between deaf and hearing people. I think that the common goal of all of us is for deaf and hearing people to become full in all aspects of their lives. In view of what has been said above, the government is committed to strengthening sign language. We can only succeed in any case of disability if it appears as a joint matter, as a common will. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-74	Thank you very much. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As a lead speaker, I would like to begin by thanking the National Association of Deafs and Hearers, the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives for their proposals, for their co-thinking and cooperation, and I would also like to thank the EMMI and the Secretary of State for their support. We have run a lot of rounds during the professional discussions, and we have come to a common understanding of this proposal, which is as important in its kind as all the others in the previous years. I would also like to thank the Fidesz fraction for its support for helping me with my work and helping me with disability, and I would also like to say that we are aware that there is still a lot to do in this area, there is a lot of work to be done, but the results show that progress is ongoing and progress is ongoing, progress is continuing in this area. We can count on disability. The People's Welfare Committee unanimously supported the inclusion of this proposal in the series, so I trust that the proposal itself will be supported by all the political groups during the parliamentary vote, as this is an area, an issue which is generally supported by one. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I confirm that the faction supports this proposal and I trust the support of the other factions. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-30-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Brenner Koloman wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and he agrees that Brenner Koloman should be able to lead the meeting during the further negotiation of the proposal. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I find that my motion has been accepted by the Parliament, so that there is no reason why Vice-President Brenner Koloman, as the lead speaker of Jobbik, will give his opinion and then take over the meeting. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Member of Tapolcza, I am always very pleased to say that in this case, which is extremely important for Hungarian society, indeed, as has been said, there is a consensus between the walls of this House that we can debate a proposal which, as with regard to the affairs of persons belonging to various minorities in general, is always another stage in a long-term development, and the bill before us is another step like this. I myself, as a linguist and university leader, participated in the development of Hungarian sign language courses as an accreditation expert. This topic is a matter of my heart, and it is a priority for my own political community, because Jobbik, as a right-most party on a Christian-social basis, considers Hungarian social solidarity to be one of its most important core values, the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens, and in this regard, of course, the community of disabled people, or those who speak sign language, and users, should enjoy the rights which thus guarantee them this well-being and freedom. [[14.10]] I would particularly like to highlight the current crisis epidemic, where it is particularly important that people with disabilities receive all the support from society that they enjoy in this very difficult situation, in our opinion. I would rather not go over the story described in detail by my fellow Member of Tapolcza and Secretary of State, but I would like to draw attention to two things in the name of the Jobbik faction. On the one hand, a person who has seen a blind or visually impaired person go through life with his guide dog knows exactly what an important step the bill before us clarifies about the training of guide dogs. For we can also call it human-animal symbiosis; once a person walks through the everyday life of a blind or visually impaired person along with his guide dog, it can only understand what this means for those affected. The other very important question is that it is possible to finally pass a state-recognized language test on last year's amendment of the law from Hungarian Sign Language, and the bill that is currently before us gradually, as my fellow Member from Tapolcza said, increases the number of hours when sign language interpretation is to be provided. This is indeed a very important, new step towards the fact that the community of sign language users can become more integrated, and I am particularly pleased to hear the welcome trend of the increase in the number of university students from the rapporteur. And my last comment is a kind of ceterum censeo, precisely because I was involved in the accreditation of sign language courses. I think that in this long march, as I have said, I myself, as a person who also uses minority sign language, as a person of German nationality and mother tongue, know precisely these can be long-term steps. I would consider it very important and particularly important, and I would assure the government of my support in continuing to give priority to the issue of sign language educator training. I know that there is a great deal of professional and other discussions needed in this case, but I would like to point out that it is very important to start this teacher training at a high level that I think the community of Hungarian sign language users deserves. On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, of course, I guarantee this bill of our support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-30-78	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP is coming, Congressman Péter Harrach. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-79	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Tapolczai's proposal is an amendment that is a document of solidarity. This solidarity with fellow humans who are hindered, and in order to understand the depth of that depth, it may be worth paying attention to one aspect of our image of man. We humans are all dependent on each other. So it is not just the community being that makes us feel this kind of solidarity, because no one is an island, and the individual is fulfilled in the community itself, but every person has its limitations beyond the community being. This is a very important aspect, because sometimes we tend to think that we, as we do a good favor, are helping those who need it. Where we're dependent on each other, everyone, those who think they're safe. It's just this interdependence is stronger than anyone, less than anyone, of a different nature, but it's definitely there. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The amendment serves to enforce the rights of the linguistic minority communicating in sign language and to strengthen and assist its social relations. Here I note what we have heard several times, that it is not only about sign language, but also about another aspect, the training of helping dogs, to be more precise: the idea of training trainers. This gives the minister the opportunity given by law. In addition to our image of man, there is another reason to confirm this proposal, and this is the legal background. We can be proud of Hungary's short-term continuation of the United Nations Convention on Disability, which was ratified in 2007, with the Sign Language Act in 2009, as this convention included such a requirement for the Member States. It is one of the most substantial sign language regulations. And here we must highlight the free sign language translation service and the subtitles or sign language interpretation of television programmes and other cultural events. I think that we cannot go without saying that Hungary's Fundamental Law states the sentence that reads: . Hungary protects the Hungarian sign language as part of Hungarian culture. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When this proposal is presented to us, we can actually identify three objectives: access to public services for deaf and hearing people, the creation of high-quality education and, in this context, the increase in sign language hours. I believe that everything that I have tried to say about our image of man as a background and the legal environment that preceded this proposal justifies the unconditional support of our group, and we hope that, as has already been done at the time of the preliminary birth of this law, the entire Parliament will do so without voting against or abstaining. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-80	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is László Varga, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no obstacle to what my fellow Member Harrach has said, and I feel that, therefore, at the beginning of my speech in the debate, I will forward that we consider these efforts to be supportive, since we continue to support the further expansion of the framework of the Sign Language Act created under socialist governance and services involving hearing-damaged and deaf people. At the same time, I would like to say that we do not understand why we had to wait a year for this, as Mr Secretary of State has also said that there has been a recent amendment of the law on this issue here in the House. They may have already been aware of the need to increase the number of hours for free signal translation and to introduce new ones in other cases, on the basis of indications from advocacy organisations. I do not question the commitment of the Member, the national obligation in this matter, or even think it very well, but at the same time the government could have acted on its own motion on this issue earlier, that is my claim. I would like to say that it is important for the Government to take people with disabilities seriously and to introduce these measures as soon as possible, which is why there is a concrete proposal for this proposal. [[14.20]] In several places, the scope is January 2022 and January 2023 the entry into force of the different stages of the submission. I would imagine that the entry into force of January 2022 should be amended by July 21, 2022, either with a common will in the House or with the entry into force of January 23, 22 January. In other words, not only do we consider the individual proposals acceptable in this respect, but we have already explicitly urged some aspects, so we are absolutely willing to cooperate in order to ensure that certain issues and certain proposals come into force sooner. (The notary seat) Gergely Harvesto takes over. ) Once again, therefore, the proposal is acceptable and we look forward to the amendments. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-82	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-30-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to start a little bit from a distance on this law, but in the end, I will be able to get to very specific things, as I hope. Every case that comes before us here is worth thinking about, that the proposal, the idea, the law or the bill that comes before the House, otherwise, how it serves the lives of those who are affected, makes life better or makes life more difficult. This is certainly the case when the government is typically presenting a poor quality or poor target-oriented proposal as the largest legislator. I feel the same way about every single proposal, I look at the fact that that proposal helps, improves the life of that social group or not. We are now in the fortunate position, and if I understand the opposition and pro-government representatives who have spoken before me correctly, we can conclude that this bill will improve the lives of those who are affected. And that's good, that's definitely saving, that's not always going to happen. We've reached him now. The other question is that, by the way, if it helps, it really is a state task or a state task, and how much government assistance or government action is needed in this area. This is a far-reaching idea of what the government and the state have to do to create equal opportunities. I think this is not part of this debate, but let me say the part here that I think it is a government task, a state task to increase equal opportunities and create equal opportunities. In other words, every step, every proposal in front of this House that serves the purpose of putting our fellow human beings, who, for some reason, are at a disadvantage and who are so broad, we try to overcome this disadvantage with public help, to help them to overcome it, all such steps are important and good and to be supported. So, if we put both of these little theoretical approaches together and look at this particular issue, then we find that this bill is a good step in the right direction, and it certainly contains things to support. If we go into the concrete proposal about what this is about, the people before me have given a pretty detailed description of your actions. It is about the fact that the previous amendments, in the context of the practical application of the previous law, have shown that the amount of free sign language translation services that has been included in the existing law is not enough, and this needs to be increased and increased. The reasoning is very plastic, and here my fellow rapporteur also said why this argument is not enough, it is perfectly understandable, it is logical, it is acceptable. Thus, on the one hand, the proposal raises these specific hours or raises a new category of stakeholders, such as kindergartens, such as elementary schoolchildren, who have not been involved before. As my fellow Member László Varga mentioned, the question arises why we have left it out so far, but it is absolutely right that they will now be included. It therefore extends the most important measures so far, including additional groups and other relevant groups, and this can be supported, this is appropriate. It is a very important aspect, which has not been included so far in the law, and it is now being included that entry into the labour force is also an aspect, that is to say, to help our fellow citizens communicate with sign language in order to be more easily connected to work, or to be able to get along more easily if they are already there. Again, I'm saying that the law so far, if you like it, is your fault that it hasn't come up before or in such a circle. Now it's coming in, very good, very good, also to be supported. The proposal also mentions that there were two previous discussions on this subject, if it is possible to put it this way, or that Parliament has touched this issue twice, both the then pro-government and the then opposition representatives unanimously supported it, and it is really hoped that this will happen in this case as well. At the same time, I have re-read these debates on what else was said about possible positive, further proposals to support. I would like to mention one or two now because this shows that although we are taking another step in the right direction, but it is still possible to increase this further, there is still room for further help and assistance to think about. One of these, I would suggest, is that we consider it appropriate to provide sign language training free of charge for the parents of the parents concerned, i.e. disabled or specifically deaf or deaf children. So, in order for the state to support the fact that if such a child comes into the family, the state will pay for this kind of training for its parents, the government will pay for it, and the taxpayers will pay for it, and not their own burden. The question raised by my good fellow Member at the end of his speech is also raised, and we have indeed talked about it here in the debate last year, as that amendment also touched on this issue last year. This is the problem of teaching a teacher in sign language, which has actually lasted for many years, or I would say that it is still not solved today, and last year's amendment was actually about the fact that we have eased the conditions a little bit, the Parliament reduced the conditions in order to make as many of the people who perform the task as possible, because the Parliament also felt that there was a lack of time. I think that this lag is exactly the same today. Last year's mitigation in this area obviously meant that more people could do such pedagogical work, but obviously we did not solve the whole problem of such teacher training. We haven't seen a government effort going in this direction since then, so let's put this on the table, and that's still a weak point in this whole area, and that's what needs to be dealt with. As a third, a little disoriented from the specific issue, I must point out that we are talking here about a bill to improve the lives of people with certain disabilities, once again, with a lot of good and good measures in it. However, it cannot be borne in mind that we have other fellow humans in this country who live with other types of disability, and that they also need some kind of assistance, financial assistance, or other respectable assistance. For example, Parliament did yesterday or the day before yesterday to resolve the situation of invalid pensions in a case that had been delayed for about ten years after the government ruined it. [[14.30]] And he also made it so that, in fact, the government was trying to solve it by means of a one-off payment of the amount of disability pensions actually due to them, which hasn't been paid in recent years, so there was some sort of settlement, but it's far from that, it's just a handout, it's just a moment's advance, compared to what they would otherwise have had, and they should have it now. I am bringing this up here because we do need to see this complexly, because the government and Fidesz do not share the same attitude towards each disabled group. It is very good, when such a proposal is before us, that we are meeting forward-looking, good and supportive ideas and suggestions here, but we need to see the flaws of the system; we need to see that this is not the whole picture we see here. To sum up, therefore, this bill should be supported by good measures and steps in the right direction, and we will therefore support it on behalf of DK, and I would, of course, also ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-84	Thank you. On this two-minute comment, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has the floor, KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, There was so much unity here before Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki's speech, I would also like to say as a member of the People's Welfare Committee that the Committee on Welfare welcomed Mr Tapolczai's initiative and was unanimously supported on Monday in the course of the series. At the time, however, it was not yet possible to know how left-wing parties would comment on this, because unfortunately, the MSZP, DK and the dialogue representatives did not come. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that they have now given their support to the bill. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, who has now brought the issue of disability pensions and everything into this debate, I would like to say that in the general debate you said that the proposal was scandalous and then voted in favour the day before yesterday. If you believe that scandalous proposals must be voted in favour, then this is left to your conscience, but we believe that this bill has complied with the decision of the Constitutional Court in everything, and this is what this debate is about, and this significantly improves the situation of our disabled fellow citizens, especially schoolchildren and kindergarteners. It is therefore forward-looking, and I would therefore like to thank Gergely Tapolczai and the representative organisations and organisations for their work, because I think that what has been happening in this area in recent years is exemplary, and I think that we should go on this path, so I would like to thank everyone for their work. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-86	Thank you. I will also speak for two minutes to László Sebian-Petrovsk, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-87	Yes, thank you very much. That's all I'd say, Mr. President, is that I'd define what I mean by scandalous, what I mean by that. It is a scandal that ten years ago, someone's life was destroyed by government measures, or that he lost his disability pension in its entirety, or that a significant part of it was 140 thousand such people, and then, it can be calculated that it was a loss of millions of HUF in the last ten years. We know about lawsuits that ended, they ended up with millions of forints in damages, and the government gives them 500 thousand forints compared to that. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He voted...]] I consider that scandalous, Congressman, this is scandalous. Millions of forints each would cost these colleagues, these people, and you will give them 500 thousand forints. I think it's scandalous. But of course, we understand and have consulted professional organisations that these people, who are usually faced with challenges in the labour market, especially during the Covid period and the economic downturn, are in such a financial situation that this HUF 500,000 single help is very big money for many of them, a substantial help for many of them. Therefore, we are in the position that all the money we give them is in the absolutely right place and they are in the right place, and they do not even have to accept it as a favor, but it is due to them after the sufferings of the last ten years that you have caused them, but it is a scandal that they will not receive and receive the full amount, not the sums that they otherwise have legally. That's what I meant about the scandal in that case. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-88	Thank you. Mr. László Varga has the floor in two minutes, MSZP. Here you go, notary.
u2021-04-30-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not use the entire timeframe, because my fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk has actually defended his own position. I would also like to point out that the opposition in this motion was in a difficult situation in the sense that you have, for years, failed to comply with the law in respect of the failure of the disabled pensioners, the people concerned, to settle this situation. For more than ten years, there have been some 140,000 affected by the situation that they have taken away their disability pensions, benefits, or have significantly reduced them. For them, this HUF 500,000 is significant, but many will sign it in such a way that they actually deserve more. This was obviously a situation in which the opposition had to support the fact that Parliament would continue to be in a default, fundamental violation situation. So that's what the vote of support was for. In fact, what you have been working on in the specific case over the last decade is what the scandal marker is for. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tapolczai, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-30-91	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In conclusion, I would just like to say in a few sentences that, first of all, I would like to thank all the factions for their support. Although we do not yet know the position of the Dialogue and the LMP, it can be assumed that they will support this proposal. Thank you for the suggestion regarding the date of entry into force. We have also considered this possibility, and we have concluded, together with the advocacy organisations, that since the increase in the number of hours creates an additional demand, and the number of current interpreters is insufficient to achieve this, but sign language interpreters are being trained, during which they are expected to be 20 to 30 new sign language interpreters within a year, so that they can be better achieved by the proposal. The reason for the amendment to the law in relation to kindergarten education and primary school is only now: since the adoption of 2009, such a number of hours has not yet been created, so 120 hours per year seemed sufficient, but given that 11-12 years ago there were not as many hearing-damaged children in integrated education as they are now, this area is now at the centre of attention, and that is why we recommend that they receive an extra watch frame in this area over 120 hours. With regard to employees, I would like to make it clear that they have been in the system so far, thanks to their 120 hours per year framework, but through improved employment data and increasing demands, it is necessary to provide them with an extra interpretation framework so that they do not lose their individual hours of interpretation in the field of employment, because they need 120 hours to manage their own lives and other affairs. It has also been suggested that we provide free courses for the parents of hearing - impaired children and for the parents of deaf children. I'd like to respond to that in a few thoughts. The possibility exists now, as the National Association of Deafs and Great Hearers usually provides free courses for parents of deaf or overhearing children who use sign language. So there is also cooperation with schools teaching deaf children. Several teachers were granted free access to sign language courses. I would also add that the parents of deaf children are generally 90 percent hearing parents, and most of them do not want to learn sign language and communicate with their children in sign language, but they want the child to learn to speak and learn integrated, which is on the one hand an understandable position, but regardless of whether the parent is the parent of a deaf child or the parent of a deaf child, if he wants to learn sign language himself, then this option is still guaranteed free of charge. [[14.40]] Finally, some personal thoughts. This sign language changer and last year's amendment also bring up feelings that I would like to share. I graduated from high school and law school in a total of nine years because I couldn't use a sign language translator service, and now seeing this process, this development, I would like to wish for students and children and young people who are studying at other levels of education to get further, reach further and realize their own dreams, and now they have the opportunity. I am standing here as the first deaf representative of the Hungarian Parliament and can be a part of this legislative work, which can improve the life and quality of life of my fellow people. So I just wish for them, for the generations after me, to move on, to achieve more. Thank you for your support in this, and thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-30-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for a real estate register until closure. The government referral is T/15969. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Members, In more than 20 years since the publication of the current Real Estate Registration Act, significant socio-economic changes have taken place which create new expectations for the regulation of the real estate register. These requirements can no longer be met by the current legislation in accordance with the requirements of the age, and it has therefore become necessary to establish a new Real Estate Registration Act and a new Implementing Regulation. The real estate register is one of Hungary's largest and most important property registers, which stores data, owners, other significant rights and facts on 19 million ownership pages. The administrative importance of land administration procedures in the real estate, land development and agricultural management sector is also outstanding in Hungary. 25-30 percent of current average business and customer turnover and more than 50 percent of procedural costs are linked to this sector. At the same time, real estate registration, surveying and mapping, as well as land design processes, have traditionally been carried out on a paper basis in recent decades. The IT systems supporting real estate registration procedures and data services were of high quality and quality at the time of their development, but the technological development of the past decades, and the demands of citizens and national economies, impose new requirements on them. CHAPTER XXI The potential of electronic administration, the creation and acceleration of data flows between different electronic systems and registers, is expected in the 20th century. Not only with IT systems, but also with public administration as a whole, it is also necessary to speed up and simplify administration and reduce the burden on customers and citizens. Therefore, the Government agrees that land administration procedures and thus the development of the real estate register will be implemented through the implementation of the köFOP project "E-receiving', which will develop the IT system supporting the entire real estate register. As a result, the real estate registration process becomes fully electronized, the lead times and cost levels of land management procedures are reduced in Hungary, thus increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and the security of real estate traffic. Dear Parliament, In parallel with the technical development of the specific objectives, there is a need to establish regulatory bases adapted to this, which can be achieved through legislative reform. The bill on real estate registration has put this into effect on its flag, which allows the Hungarian real estate register to be modern and competitive in international comparison, thus contributing even more to the country's competitiveness; replacing paper administration, more efficient and faster electronic administration; the real estate register can be linked to other public electronic registers of the State, such as the national building register, the business register, the register of civil society organisations, the address register and other public organisations such as courts, executives, notaries from which the data of the real estate register can automatically be updated, and electronic information flows and contacts will be ensured, in many cases automated. In this way, easy electronic accessibility and eligibility levels can be set for public authorities, courts and other rightholders. It is available that the system supporting the real estate official tasks of the county and the metropolitan government offices, as well as the map database management system, as well as the valuable and intelligent database containing extraordinary amounts of data are suitable for data processing, data request, economic and other data, information and statistics can be obtained from the database within a short period of time. Dear House, Please allow me to briefly outline the most important new regulatory elements of the proposal. The framework of the procedure is the Act on General Administrative Rules, known as Ákr. Its rules provide that the necessary specific procedural rules will be entered in the new Real Estate Registration Act or its decree of enforcement at the level of the Government Decree. The main aim of the proposal is to ensure that all rights and obligations in relation to the property are made available from the real estate register to the fullest possible extent. In order to achieve this, it is also necessary to eliminate, on the one hand, the duplication of the real estate register and other real estate records. I stress that the regulation does not detract from the management of a professional register for real estate in certain sectors, but makes it compulsory for sectoral data to appear in the single real estate register as well as, in conjunction with this, the priority and public credibility of real estate registration data. On the other hand, the new concept is an important change in regulation and approach, so that the scope of rights, facts and data that can be entered in the real estate register is not defined by sectoral legislation, but can only be determined uniformly by real estate registration legislation. Thirdly, in order to strengthen the public credibility of the real estate register, to further support traffic security and the protection of third parties trusting in the real estate register, the starting point of the proposal is that in the case of a right, fact, data relating to the property which is the subject of the real estate register, the law and the law based on facts and data, or an obligation, be enforceable if the right, fact or data are entered in the real estate register. One of the major reforms of the new Real Estate Registration Act is that, as a general rule, the rules for automatic decision-making will prevail in the real estate registration procedure in the future. With regard to automatic decision-making, Ákr. sets out the procedural framework, but the way in which decisions are taken is the 2015 CCXXII on electronic administration. by law. In the case of automatic decision-making, the time limit for the procedure may be drastically reduced, thereby increasing the up-to-dateness of the real estate register. [[14.50]] Note that the Akr. it contains a special guarantee rule for automatic decision making, which will also be applicable in the real estate registration procedure, within five days of the decision, the client may request that the authority re-examine its application in full proceedings. This will be done in order to ensure that a uniform remedy for infringement is carried out as effectively as possible, the application for full proceedings can be submitted free of charge, even on a paper basis, without any formal or substantive requirements. Dear Parliament, To sum up, with the bill before this House, the government is declarively seeking to implement its idea that the Hungarian real estate register should be competitive internationally in the field of modern and supportive IT systems, while keeping the centuries-old Hungarian property rights traditions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill on the basis of the reasons set out above. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Adam Héyj David, the lead speaker of the Fidesz group. You have the floor.
u2021-04-30-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In front of us lies T/1599. The Land Register Bill, which is a legal reform in its entirety. The 1997 CXLI on the current real estate register. In almost two decades since the entry into force of law, as the Secretary of State said, the world has changed a lot. There have been significant social and economic changes at global level that create new demands for legislation and electronic administration. A complete, comprehensive revision of the legislation on real estate registration has therefore become necessary, which, in parallel with the development of public administration, justified the creation of a new Real Estate Registration Act and a new Implementing Regulation. I welcome the fact that the Government of Hungary has decided on the implementation of the e-retail register project within the framework of the operational programme for public administration and public service development, i.e. the KÖFOP, which will enable it to develop the real estate register into an electronic database, fully electronise the real estate registration procedures, make administration a one-stop shop, and create electronic document files, thereby reducing the lead times and cost levels of land management procedures and the administrative burden they entail. As an example, thanks to E-ING, it will also be possible for a change of ownership to appear on the ownership sheet within a few hours after the sale of a property. This is also important because the real estate registration procedure is still basically paper, which is outdated, more time-consuming and more costly. And by reducing the administrative burden and increasing customer satisfaction, we hope that the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy can also be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, The legal regulatory reform, coupled with the digitalisation of the real estate register, will allow the domestic real estate register to be modern and competitive in the field of digitalisation at international level, with environmental objectives to replace traditional paper administration with more efficient and faster electronic administration, the real estate register can be linked to other public-credit electronic registers of the state, the real-estate register should be transparent, complete and up-to-date, the system supporting the real-estate duties of county and capital government offices and the mapping database management system should become uniform, the smart database should be suitable for data processing and data request, and the authorities, courts and other right holders should, of course, be more easily accessible, as the State Secretary of State said, to the system by electronic means after setting the level of eligibility. Dear House, Although the Secretary of State has already done so, I would also like to briefly mention the most important new elements. The proposal submitted intends to introduce a code regulation, which means that the scope of rights, facts and data that can be entered in the real estate register is not governed by sectoral legislation, but can be determined uniformly and exclusively by real estate registration legislation. On the basis of the principle of completeness and the extension of the registration principle, the regulatory reform states that in the case of a right, fact and data relating to real estate which is the subject of the real estate register, the law and the fact and data-based right or obligation are enforceable where the law, fact and data have already been registered in the real estate register. It is essential that the real estate register gives us the fullest possible knowledge of all rights and obligations in relation to the property concerned. However, this would not mean withdrawing the professional registration of real estate from each sector, but would make it compulsory for sectoral data to be included in the single property register. In relation to what has been said, I believe it is necessary to underline that, in relation to sectoral data, the priority of real estate registration data and their public credibility are stated in the bill. This confirms the primacy of the real estate register. Article 40 of the General Administrative Rules Act. Paragraph 2 (a) states that there is an automatic decision-making procedure, if permitted by law or government decree. The procedural framework is laid down in the General Administrative Code of Procedure, while the method of decision-making is governed by the Electronic Administration Act. In this case, the Real Estate Register Act is the law that allows automatic decision-making to be applied in real estate registration procedures and empowers the conditions to be laid down in the implementing legislation, i.e. the regulation. The guarantee clause laid down in the Code of Procedure will also apply to real estate registration procedures, namely that, within five days of notification of the decision, the client may request that the authority re-examine its application in full proceedings. Dear Parliament, I believe that the bill before us can be fully suitable for the development of a modern, digitised and customer-friendly real estate registration system capable of adapting to the changing needs of today, since increasing Hungary's competitiveness also requires faster and more cost-effective administration. That is why the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group and I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-96	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Zoltán Magyar, who presents the position of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Deputy Group Leader.
u2021-04-30-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It was time to create a modern-day legislation, but there were contradictions and parts that, I think, need more explanation, and it is not enough to answer that, because the lack of this information, I think, can greatly influence the opinion of the law, such as the opposition. As the Secretary of State said, with regard to automatic decision-making, the General Administrative Code of Procedure, Ákr. the procedural framework is established, but the way in which decisions are taken is determined by the Act on Electronic Administration. It was also mentioned here that there is a kind of automatic decision-making from now on, but we all think that this may not be appropriate for real estate procedures, because there is a fear that the general guarantees will not provide sufficient protection. Electronic administration is more efficient and faster than replacing paper administration, this is obvious, but we also have a few questions here. For example, in the future, in the case of documents signed abroad, in addition to diplomatic certification, it should be converted into an electronic document by a notary in Hungary, which, in addition to significant costs, will bring bureaucracy to the system. That's what you were thinking, and there's some sort of solution to that? What we think is a little controversial is that the text of the law is not, only the justification contains that it is still acceptable that if a lawyer uses remote identification, such as Skype, thus identifying the client, and the client on Skype has signed the document abroad before the lawyer, mailed it to the lawyer, and then the lawyer countersigned it, then the document can be used in real estate proceedings. If that is the intention, then this should remain, and not just be indicated in the justification. In the future, there was talk about the linkability of the real estate register with other public-credit electronic registers of the State. This, we think, is forward-looking, but we are curious to see, especially the executive decree, which I have already referred to, because here you have to think of things that will update the owner's address, this is also a guarantee rule, or you don't have to attach a death certificate to cancel the beneficial right, because the land office will see the address system. [[15.00]] So, overall, as I have already said, it was a long time ago, at least a decade ago, the profession had been waiting for a change in legislation in this area, which is a modern age. We would like to ask for some guidance here to resolve these contradictions. Overall, I can say that we can support this legislation. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-04-30-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are discussing two legislative proposals this afternoon, which are linked to bureaucracy reduction, electronic administration. Since I am basically going to give my thoughts on cutting red tape only in this bill, but it is valid for both, because I am a great advocate, a great supporter of the bureaucratic legislative proposals and any bill that makes life, administration and relations with the state easier for the Hungarian people, because I think that this, in principle, must be supported, and must always go on this path, must never stop. The current legislative proposals are also another step towards cutting red tape and reducing administrative burdens and extending electronic administration as widely as possible. The important objective of the Fidesz-KDNP government is to build a customer-centred service state and an efficient, modern public administration, which makes everyday life easier for Hungarians. Reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens is as important as reducing taxes, reducing tax burdens, and the importance of online administration without standing in line more than ever during the epidemic period. In recent years, a number of significant steps have been taken in this direction, which has made the administration much simpler, faster and more digitised. More than four million people now have access to customer portals, with the establishment of government windows it is quick and easy to manage, with online appointments even without standing, in a short time it is possible to arrange some 2,500 types of cases. In addition, it is worth mentioning that as of 1 January, the administration of one and a half million administrative matters has become free and free of charge. It is free, among other things, to issue the first licence, the moral certificate four times a year, the identity card, the address card, the business card, the student card, the birth certificate, the administrative procedures at first instance, and the administrative procedural fee also ceased. The purpose of the bill we are discussing is to implement the necessary legislative amendments in order to enable the government's e-Post Register project, which is to develop the real estate register into an electronic database, to fully electronicise real estate registration procedures, thus reducing the lead times and cost levels of land management procedures, thereby reducing administrative administrative burdens. The administrative importance of land administration procedures belonging to the real estate and land development and agricultural management sector is outstanding in Hungary. 25-30 percent of current average business and customer turnover and more than 50 percent of procedural costs are linked to this sector. The real estate register contains a very large amount of data, currently holds some 19 million ownership cards, which are capable of data search and data analysis in the current form of a valuable database, using only very significant human resources capacity. Digitalisation of the real estate register and the related regulatory reform allow the Hungarian real estate register to be modern and competitive in the field of digitalisation, thus contributing to the country's competitiveness. Electronic administration replaces paper administration, which allows solutions in a more efficient, faster, more convenient and environmentally friendly way. The data of the real estate register will automatically update and ensure electronic information flows and contacts, in many cases automated contact with other public-credited electronic registers of the State. Electronicization will be useful and beneficial for both customers and authorities, which saves everyone money, time, energy and resources. The bill therefore takes another step towards a customer-centred service state and a wide range of fast, simple and electronic administration services. In view of these, the KDNP fraction will support another step in cutting red tape. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-100	Thank you. Our next speaker is László Varga, who gives the opinion of the MSZP Group. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-30-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal does not merely contain changes to procedures, but essentially introduces a new digitalised real estate registration system. Accordingly, the proposal should be backed by significant technical and technical developments. In the last decade and a half, significant progress has been made with regard to the introduction of electronic administration and the digitalisation of public administration, so this is a decade and a half process that goes beyond your governance, but so far the real estate register has been almost completely omitted. I agree with my fellow Member, the lead speaker of Fidesz, who also mentioned this issue. The real estate register has been badly left out of this innovation, even though the real estate register is of great importance for major civil law transactions. Electronic administration and automatic decision-making are expected to significantly accelerate real estate registration procedures, which can facilitate the conduct of countless legal transactions, thereby reducing the transaction costs of economic operators. So this could be a good, innovative thing. In practical life, the link between the real estate register and the personal data and address register will be significantly facilitated. As a result, the real estate register will contain current data of the right holders, as opposed to the current situation. This is clearly not the case at some point, the residence data of the right holders are often outdated and often the name of the rightholder is also the same. However, in addition to all innovation and the fact that we have considered the subject important for many years, I would like to make two comments on the bill. On the one hand, there are serious doubts about the restriction of the publicity of the real estate register in the proposal. Protecting the data of natural persons entitled may be a legitimate argument for making stricter rules, and I do not dispute that. However, much may depend on how the implementing regulation sets out the search targets that allow the data to be accessed. It would also be nice to learn something about this in advance. After all, if the implementing rules narrow the possibility of knowing the owners and the application of the law starts to severely sanction the use of ownership data in a non-target manner, then it is feared that one of the consequences of the proposal could be to take action against journalists writing a fact-finding article on the property of NER riders and oligarchs. In any event, the adoption of the proposal with the same content may make this type of fact-finding work difficult. On the other hand, from a data protection point of view, the provision that a natural person's entire property may not be listed from the real estate register to anyone is also understandable. The proposal sets out which bodies and persons may exceptionally request such information, court, judicial enforcement, investigative authorities, national security services and others. This tool may be very useful for, for example, carrying out asset declaration investigations, but this is not among the possible purposes of reporting. To enable this would be particularly important, the data of the property owners will not be freely accessible to anyone, as I said earlier. The proposal will enter into force on the 1st day of February 23, so that the regulatory content is of relevance, otherwise I see that there is sufficient preparation time. It is also important, however, that the special law on transitional provisions will be adopted by Parliament months before the proposal enters into force. Therefore, there should also be sufficient preparation time in this regard. So I think the original purpose of the proposal is more than timely, and my faction considers it more than timely, but rather it is incomprehensible why innovation has not occurred in the last 11 years. However, in two respects, in particular from data protection aspects, I have expressed concerns in which I would like the Secretary of State to provide meaningful and reassuring answers. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-102	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2021-04-30-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the speakers before me have noted, we have before us a complex set of laws which are not trying to make up for the regulation of this area, but that the legislator intended to create a completely new one. And indeed, the ambition of this law is to create and operate the most modern, best, streamlined real estate registration system possible. So the ambition when drafting this bill was enormous. Let us see how this appears in practice, in the text. I would forward it, as the speakers before me have already said, that this is an area which, on the one hand, is extremely important, very prominent. So, in order to keep records in this area, it's in the best interests of all of us. Let me just give you some data. The real estate transactions, agriculture and construction sectors directly affected by the real estate register together, so those who are likely to use it, produce about one sixth of the national economy's performance. And if I take into account mortgage values, land and property accounts for 60 to 65 percent of our national assets. So the fact that this register is up-to-date, precise, Akcurate, compliant with the law, and those who are involved in this, have normal access to it, is in our elemental interest. This will affect millions and millions of people today. We know that the current system is bleeding from an awful lot of wounds. In front of me, a number of people told me that it was time to make this right. If I want, I can ask you what took us ten years to get here so that this would come before us. You have been ruling for 11 years, and this proposal is only coming here now, and if we accept it now, it will take another two or a half years to come into effect. I understand the difficulty of preparation, but the fact is that the problems that many of us have described here have been known to all of us for years, because that is what we ourselves have experienced, and the citizens who have turned to us have also reported the same thing. Thus, the fact that the administrative deadline for procedures is long is due, among other things, to the fact that applications are currently made largely on paper, that all kinds of charges are not usually paid online, not by reference, but in cash at the offices of land offices, in many cases it is not possible to do so online. And we could tell you the problems. Therefore, I must commend you, it is very right that we are dealing with this, it is very right that there is a complex proposal here, so that this does not happen in the future. It's totally fine. Although this proposal proposes solutions to many problems, in some points, and I will mention them, we believe that there are serious concerns about the solution that is currently included in the proposal. This is not the government we would be talking about if we did not find points in the middle of the proposal which, let us say, are suspiciously political transversal points, and they raise the view that the government is preparing amendments to this law, as well as amendments to this proposal that have echte-active policy implications. Here's what I mean. First of all, the scope of data that can be recorded on real estate is not defined in this law, but is determined by a government decree. This is a concern, in our view, not only that it is okay from a data protection point of view, that it will be defined in a lower level of legislation, but also that it is problematic and that it can be discussed jointly here, in Hungarian, that the government will decide what data will be recorded in this regard. So if someone in the government wakes up after it's adopted, they may open the gate wide enough and make mandatory data that is otherwise not normally justified unless it is from an actual political point of view. There's a problem. This proposal, this package, regulates a lot of areas that, of course, are somehow regulated now, and if we compare the two with each other, it is very talkative about what parts are being removed or what wordings and provisions are coming out. In other words, what has been somehow regulated is missing from this. I'll give you two examples. What has been proposed so far is not how and how the registration, modification or deletion of trust rights is managed in matters of national importance. So far, there's been a certain kind of regulation. I'm not saying that it was insanely strict regulation, and it couldn't have been resolved with possible pro-government intentions, but now the whole regulation of this is out of this law. All we can think about is that there will also be a government decree on this. I have no illusion when the last six months, a year has apparently been about how a number of local governments have argued with the government about making things a priority investment, and therefore the government is trying to put their hands on the real estate in its territory, to decide more precisely how to make use of it and how not. And I can't get rid of the idea that this is left out of this package, because here, at the level of the government decree, Fidesz will be able to decide on the basis of political and political considerations. The restoration of the original real estate registration status is also regulated in this package of laws, but it is using an interesting solution that requires the authority issuing an official call to demonstrate that those involved in the restoration of the original status have been included in this procedure. When, in the past six months, the government has already transferred thousands of billion forints of real estate to foundations, foundations that will operate and operate under the curatorship of people close to the government, cemented into eternal life, confirmed in your hopes, constitution or basic law; so the point is that when significant state real estate assets come out of the property of the state, such a real estate registration law, in which it is said that they will put all kinds of restrictions on the restoration of the original real estate registration status, in order to suspect that when the next government comes, we hope, in a year's time, and take back these real estate donations, you will try to put all kinds of obstacles in this law. But I'll tell you more. Foreigners had a certain restriction on their acquisition of real estate in the regulations they've been making so far. The same is happening here, as in the point mentioned above, that in this new proposal, which lies before us, before this House, you are already missing sentences, restrictions that are included in the original laws in force. All we can think about is rules on land- and forest-economy non-land-based real estate that can be acquired by natural or foreign legal persons, but that these rules, which now have a certain extent to do with the purchase of property, the purchase of real estate and, therefore, limit the acquisition of land by foreigners in a certain way, have been avoided. These property acquisition restrictions are no longer available in this proposal. Obviously, there is a question of what political will is behind this. Why does the government want foreigners, again, not land-owned property in the country more easily than before? What is the intention behind this? Finally, before me, my fellow Member László Varga mentioned that this whole bill has a range of data protection concerns, and this goes through several points. [[15.20]] He mentioned one. Let me get one for you. The legislative package regulates the uniform landbook reporting, so that you can actually find out and how and how you can apply for your own real estate, other real estate and what amount of data you need. If we understand the proposal correctly, in some cases anyone can claim it. Now, that's okay, but the problem is that in the data provided, again, if we read the law right, then there is personal data. Therefore, any person can receive information about anyone and be provided with public assistance, the personal data of any relative, business or other person not related can be transferred to the claimant who submitted this claim. One word, like a hundred, the proposal wants to regulate an area that needs to be regulated and put in order. Indeed, there are serious problems in this area, so it is timely to put things in order, it is in the common interest of all of us, and there are a lot of measures and proposals in this package that really point in this direction, but there are quite a few, not one, not two, but more that serve the raw political interests of Fidesz, and therefore it is difficult for the opposition to support such laws as the opposition does not usually support. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-104	Thank you. The next speaker was János Pócs, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! T/15969 on the real estate register. I consider this proposal to be supported because its predecessor, CXLI of 1997 on the previous real estate register. More than 20 years have passed since the entry into force of law. It has been a great service in the aforementioned period, but the proposal must be modernised in order to be able to catch up with today's modern information society needs. Over the past twenty years, significant social and economic changes have occurred, including the Internet, computer technology and information technology, becoming an integral part of our daily lives, it has become common that households have computers, and I do not mention smartphones, which are now in the pockets of almost every person. This is why the government has decided to implement the project "e-receiving" within the framework of the operational programme for public administration and public service development. The aim is to develop the real estate register into an electronic database, fully electronicize the real estate registration procedures, thereby reducing the duration of land management procedures and their lead times. It also reduces administrative burdens in terms of costs. Dear Parliament, There are just a few elements why I think this bill should be supported. On the one hand, it contributes to increasing the country's competitiveness and, on the other hand, it facilitates faster, more efficient administration, and this is even paper-free, bearing in mind sustainability aspects. The real estate register will be linked to other public-credit electronic registers of the State, so that the data can be updated automatically. In addition, the electronic flow of information will be ensured, thus automation of communication. The real estate register will be more transparent and up-to-date. The smart database will be suitable for data processing and data search. I would also like to emphasise the code character of the real estate register and the primacy of the real estate register. In the former case, the scope of rights, facts and data which may be entered in the real estate register is not governed by sectoral legislation, but is determined uniformly only by real estate registration rules. In the latter case, the aim is to ensure that data, rights and obligations are made available as fully as possible from the real estate register, and that regulation does not detract from certain sectors the management of the professional register for real estate, but makes it compulsory for sectoral data to appear in the single real estate register. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As I myself, please support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see anyone applying to speak. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[István György: Thank you.]] Yeah. Here's to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-30-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that the speakers unanimously agreed that there is now a bill before Parliament that will satisfy a demand that has long been waiting for you. Indeed, a 20-year-old law, in many respects, is outdated, and where we are today is the 21st century. In information technology and the modernisation of public administration, the question of why the real estate register is on a paper basis can already be asked. This is a very serious development project for the government, I have to say that perhaps one of the very important draft laws of the last thirty years of the Hungarian administration. It contains a large number of elements to ensure the safety of traffic and essentially contributes to the establishment of a real estate registration system that supports a stable economic environment. This project is, of course, accompanied by very serious professional work, and there is a legal task force led by Commissioner Tibor Bogdán. We have had a lot of discussions, alongside the Bar Association, with the Executive Chamber, the notary Chamber, the Banking Association, NAIH. So we had a number of discussions before this norm came to Parliament. Almost everyone welcomes automatic decision-making procedures. I believe that one of the fundamentals of the legislation is that these automatic decision-making procedures, which, by the way, account for about 30-35 percent of land office procedures, will significantly shorten the time needed to quickly appear in the public property register in terms of traffic safety. This represents one third of the procedures. It is a guarantee element, which has been welcomed by many, that it is possible to switch to the full procedure. So if a person initiates this within five days, he feels that it is necessary to switch to the full procedure, then of course this will happen. The system itself is capable of assessing whether or not it is capable of automatic processing based on data from big data. So if there's a clean ownership card, there's no mortgage, there's no load on the property's property account that raises concerns or should be the subject of a more serious investigation, then you let it go to an automatic decision-making procedure that the client can stop and ask for a full procedure. So this, too, I think, is a very positive development part of the EING project. A number of people have suggested that there are various government gangsters behind it. Obviously, it is up to the opposition to make a comment on each bill on the part of everyone. Of course, I fully respect everyone's own position and opinion. [[15.30]] We were not guided by any such intention. It was prepared on an absolute professional basis, to the best of our knowledge. As I said, in addition to these discussions, of course, experts from the Ministry of Justice, the agricultural purse and the Prime Minister's Office took part, so that we could take a closer look at the legal environment and try to take into account everything that meets the requirements of a modern, new real estate registration law. For example, two examples of Congressman Zoltán Magyar have been mentioned. Let me mention these two. The fact of death is automatically transferred to the real estate register, so there is no need for this to be carried out in a separate procedure, since the register contains that if a person is unfortunately absent or deceased, it will be registered in the real estate register that the owner is not alive; so there it is quite certain that there must be a legacy procedure. Now there are a number of ownership papers with registered owners over 105 years of age, which I'm pretty sure is no longer a living person. It'll leave you with a job and a job, obviously. This new approach and the interconnection of databases will make it possible not to encounter such a problem in the future. The connection with the SZL will also mean an absolute fresh data file, because at the moment of a sale, when a person buys a property, he will surely have a registered permanent address, but when he buys that property, he will move to another address, while on the property page there is an address on which he is no longer available. Linking with the SZL will mean that it will be continuously updated, and the owner will always have his current address in the real estate registration system. The extent to which data must be protected: here I thank you for your restraint and the recognition that these data protection issues are extremely important. However, from the point of view of the real estate register, it is also clearly required that a certain degree of publicity be provided to ensure the safety of traffic, because if the data are not available, this obviously does not provide sufficient information for the buyer, for example. At the same time, we must protect certain types of data of owners, which, to date, are, of course, already protected in the spirit of a modern approach and in the spirit of legislation. But, of course, we need to find a balance here that guarantees the safety of traffic so that we can know who owns some property. The preparatory work carried out consultations with NAIH in the legal working group, and these solutions were, in fact, carried out by presenting existing legislation to NAIH and correcting it on the basis of its comments, and were presented to this House. That's all I have to say about privacy issues. This has been raised by several people. Here it was said how long the current real estate registration procedure is. I was lucky enough to say that I was able to run the Budapest Capital Government Office for five and a half years. During our significant period, the land office was able to register ownership within three days, but this obviously does not mean that the current real estate registration law is better than what we are preparing for now, even the opposite; but, of course, it is possible to keep appropriate deadlines in administration. Here we are absolutely striving for quick, efficient administration, and, as I have said, the automatic decision-making procedure will, of course, also help. And it allows data security to be linked to different registers, such as asking the bar of lawyers, that the lawyer who acts on the case is in the chamber register and that he has the right, for example, to conduct the proceedings with regard to a contract for the purchase of real estate. You can also get a red light here; more of these questions are being asked into different systems. These guarantee that the proper submissions in the procedure will be submitted to the Land Administration, in electronic form, of course, as in the company procedure, practically wrapped in an electronic document. Certain regulations have been missed by the Members of this House. This has been carefully examined by the Preparatory Working Group, that a framework-based, but brave summary and a little bit not due to the size of the law can still be called a code-like regulation, so that the most important key property registration rules are laid down at the statutory level and that those which do not require this level of law are regulated at government regulation level. It is also natural for me to see that a legislative regulation is always a greater guarantee for an opposition than a government regulation, but we were guided by the fact that the regulatory elements that are absolutely necessary to keep there, which is not, and that is sufficient to regulate at the level of a government decree. Obviously, this would require a little more trust, but as I said twice, we note that the opposition has a different role in this regard and has a different role to play in expressing its views. Overall, I have to say that there is a law before us, in which years of work and background work are now under way, a very serious IT development, and in order for this IT development to achieve its objective within the framework of the EU's KÖFOP project, it is essential that the legal framework be established. I am also pleased to note that the word of appreciation, if you like it so, or at least correctly, expressed an opinion on the fact that the legislation contains sufficient preparation time, since, like the real estate registration law adopted 20 years ago, it gives a long time to be able to prepare. I agree that sectoral legislation should follow legislation as soon as possible, and this is something that the working group will certainly seek to ensure that these regulations, which are already in codification, are adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-30-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the electronic administration of metropolitan and county government offices and the provision of government services until closure. The government referral is T/155990. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Once again, we have a proposal dealing with public administration. The government's priority objective over the past ten years has been to establish and operate a trust-based and efficient, fast public administration in Hungary. The first significant step was the establishment of government offices in 2011, and then another milestone was the creation of government windows and the establishment of a national network. Today 305 government windows provide easily accessible and accessible locations with a high standard of integrated, one-stop-shop customer service for all citizens. I think we can say that and perhaps the vast majority in Hungary agree with this statement that government windows, in addition to professional administration, create a good opportunity for citizens to handle their affairs in a cultural environment. Prior to the pandemic period, in 2019 some 14 million customers handled their business through government windows from home card issue to family support benefits. As a result of the epidemic situation and the measures taken by the government, the number of customers has decreased naturally in the last year, but the operation of the government windows has not stopped for a minute; they are now receiving their clients, the managing citizens, during an emergency with a prior appointment. [[15.40]] Dear House, Public administration must continuously respond to age challenges and emerging needs. In this context, the development and extension of electronic administration is one of the greatest challenges facing us. This was also the purpose of the E-ING project, and it serves to this day, which has been discussed in the previous agenda. One of the key elements of the bill before us is to create the introduction of a model signature certification system in government offices and its legal conditions. This authentication system consists of a new electronic authentication method, according to which biometric data of the traditional signature in electronic form are used to validate legal declarations in government windows. The essence of the process is that, after successful identification with documents, the client can sign the documents necessary for the administration by means of a so-called signpost, simply in a manner similar to that used in the mailing services. At the same time, the signature on the signature box can be converted into the signature on the document, and the document can be endorsed and time-stamped. With the introduction of the signatory panel, a document verification system and method is established that provides a convenient authentication opportunity in personal customer relationships. Customers who have not yet had an electronic ID or digital signature, or a customer gate registration, or have no skills in electronic administration, can also benefit from the new administration. In addition, paper-free administration is carried out in matters identified by the development, thereby contributing to the protection of the environment. By installing the signposts, our aim is to introduce another convenience service in personal administration, and to continue to ensure the possibility of using other electronic authentication methods, not exclusively, of course. It should be pointed out that the surfaces of the Signatories can also be viewed in an accessible view, their large functions help the system use of visually impaired persons and it is possible that the document can be read by a reading program. In addition, other special designs help people in need to use the service. Dear Parliament, Another innovative solution to the bill is expected to significantly accelerate public affairs by building direct access to information systems used by government offices and district offices in an emerging system. The bill provides the legal basis for the establishment of a direct data link between the register of social matters, the system of the administration of uniform social benefits, the education register and the systems used by the foreign police authority and the asylum authority. In addition, by amending the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment and related sectoral laws, the bill establishes a national system for monitoring and reporting on construction. This is in the initial phase aimed at bleaching employment conditions in the construction sector, encouraging businesses and individuals in the sector to comply with the law, thereby increasing the number of legally employed in the construction sector and the transparency of the subcontractors chain. On the other hand, the system will be able to cover and fully serve the wider areas of construction. In addition to the establishment of the system, the proposal lays down rules on the operation of this system by naming the construction monitoring and reporting system which forms the basis of IT. The Glass Gate is intended to monitor the presence in the construction work of construction construction construction activities reaching the threshold laid down in the Government Decree. The system introduces a control method that reduces the vulnerability of workers and facilitates wage matching working time. With the introduction of the Glass Gate, it will be possible to transmit the presence data of persons in the construction work area to the authorities in real time. Electronic logging of entry and exits will make the system an effective tool for the tax authority, the employment monitoring authority and the construction monitoring authority, making monitoring of constructions easier. Similarly, the Glass Gate will make it easier to establish that the right of a particular employee or other person to reside in the territory is lawful, that the undertaking complies with labour law rules and that monitoring of compliance with the tax obligations relating to employment will be simplified by the tax authority. The national construction monitoring and reporting system will be set up on a step-by-step basis to ensure adequate preparation time, taking into account its asset needs and operational issues involved in its use. In the first phase, it shall apply only to construction activities which fall within the scope of the Public Procurement Act and where the related procurement procedure was initiated after the entry into force of the Act. The sanctioning of the application of the scheme shall not take place until 1 July 2022 at all. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI It requires the creation of an efficient, fast service administration, to which this bill also aims to contribute. It should also be pointed out that both the expansion of electronic administration services and the establishment of a whitening system for the construction sector add to the competitiveness of our country. I respectfully ask you to support this bill in light of what has been said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Adam Héyj David, the lead speaker of the Fidesz group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-30-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/155990 on the table of the House. The proposed legislation aims to regulate three major areas, as Mr Secretary of State has said, namely: the introduction of a model signature authentication system in government windows, the creation of a national construction monitoring and reporting system and the Glass Gate and, thirdly, the direct data link of the social register to certain specialised systems. Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, I would like to refer to the introduction of a signature model authentication system, which will appear as a new, innovative service, the use of which will be easy for citizens who are not experienced in electronic administration. This new electronic authentication method can be implemented in practice by introducing a so-called signatory panel in regional government offices, which allows the customer to sign the pdf documents used in the course of administration by hand and in a simple way. It should be pointed out that this provision makes personal administration paperless during the specific types of cases in the government window. In view of the fact that we are talking about biometric data, it is important to note that the bill correctly records the content of the data recorded in the government's signature model register, the recording in the register and the related personal data, in particular the guarantee rules for the processing and transmission of special category personal data under the GDPR. Another key aspect of the proposal submitted is the establishment of a national construction monitoring and reporting system and of a construction monitoring and reporting system as part of it, of which the latter, as the State Secretary mentioned, was the Glass Gate. By setting up the Glass Gate, it will be possible to trace the presence data of persons in the construction work area in real time by means of IT tools. This will make it easier to carry out physical, on-the-spot checks under general administrative regulations and reduce administrative burdens. The Glass Gate will thus simply and with significant human resources savings, be able to establish that the right of a particular employee or other person to stay in the territory is lawful and that the undertaking complies with labour law rules. [[15.50]] The data of the Glass Gate system will also facilitate the conduct of tax controls in respect of the fulfilment of business and employment tax obligations. The Glass Gate will therefore record in real time the details of guests' entry and exit to the construction work area, with the exception of the representatives of the public authorities entitled to remain exclusively in the construction work area for the purpose of work and the representatives of the public authorities responsible for the construction work area. Overall, it can be said that we hope that the Glass Gate, which allows electronic logging of entries and exits, will be an effective tool for both the NAV and the employment authority and the building monitoring authority in the field of construction control. The provisions laid down for the regulation of the construction sector therefore aim to strengthen the transparent construction sector in addition to simpler administration. It is important to note that the national construction monitoring and reporting system stands on a step-by-step basis, taking into account its novelty, its asset needs, operational issues involved in its use, and ensuring adequate preparation time. To this end, the Étv. lays down a transitional rule under which the system will enter into force on an upward basis and should apply in the first phase only to construction activities which fall within the scope of the Public Procurement Act, as mentioned by the Secretary of State, and the procurement procedure started after the entry into force of the Act. The draft law expressis verbis states that sanctions for the application of the scheme will not take place until 1 July 2022 at all. Thirdly, I would also like to point out briefly that the proposal submitted also provides the legal basis for a direct data link between the register of social matters and the education register, as well as the systems used by the foreign police authority and the asylum authority. Dear House, The proposal before us therefore presents a number of welcome objectives, which in the long term will provide more opportunities for Hungarians to make use of electronic administration services as often as possible and more widely as possible, and to promote legitimate construction employment in this context by increasing the number of legally employed people in the construction sector and the transparency of the sub-contracting chain, by monitoring construction contract relations, by encouraging business organisations and individuals in the sector to act in compliance with the law, i.e. the whitening of the construction sector. In my view, the bill before us will make a major contribution to improving the efficiency of public services and to the smooth functioning of the customer-centred service state. The efforts in this direction are certainly welcome from the government. That is why the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group and I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-112	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Zoltán Magyar, who presented the position of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Like the previous item on the agenda, I can say here that it is time to address this issue. Turning back to the previous agenda, I would just like to highlight a few points where there is some contradiction, or we would like to have an answer to our questions here in the context of the debate. The first of these would be the introduction of a model-based authentication system in the metropolitan and county government offices. The authentication of the declaration of rights shall be based on biometric data of the traditional signature in electronic form. I think there is nothing wrong with that, because there is a clear need to move with age in the public administration as well as an old goal of developing digitalisation. The Signatory method has worked in many areas of the private sector, so, as the Secretary of State has said, we agree that this can actually be supported by appropriate guarantees. What may be a problem from a data protection point of view, however, is that, according to the justification, a direct data link will be established between the single social benefits, the administration support system and the education register, as well as the systems used by the foreign police authority and the asylum authority. It is a question of providing information on request in the proposal itself. This means that the body is providing services to the metropolitan and county government offices on request by means of a system supporting the administration of social benefits with a view to providing social benefits in cash and in kind as well as the advance payment of the child's premium, the assessment of the existence of entitlement, the provision, maintenance and termination of care. We believe that this is not a problem, either, if it serves professional purposes, but if we do not know why or why we need to provide data specifically, then it does not comply with the principles of the transparent state, the transparent citizen. However, the reason for this amendment is not explained in the justification in any way other than a single-word reference to efficiency. The second is the construction monitoring and reporting system, as part of the national construction monitoring and reporting system, which is the establishment of rules on the operation of the Glass Gate. It aims to promote legitimate construction employment, to monitor the contractual relations of the construction sector, to provide an opportunity for analysis of the data to be included in the system, in a way that is impossible to obtain personal data. I believe that this should not be a problem either, since the whitening of the construction sector is a long-standing issue, and this can indeed serve this purpose. That is why we have a fear that this will place a serious administrative burden on the employer. The data of the Glass Gate system facilitate the conduct of tax checks in respect of the fulfilment of businesses' tax obligations on employment. The proposal is, of course, based on the experience of online connection of cash registers and food-drink machines, and we know that there were problems there. I am referring here to the early phase of the introduction of cash registers. The increase in administrative burdens could also increase the already very expensive and rapidly expensive construction industry. I don't know what organisations from the area have been consulted, but their opinion, too, I think, would be crucial in this matter. Unfortunately, I couldn't find reassuring answers based on my Internet search. According to this view, the most important problem I have in this situation is to leave the details to regulation. Obviously, this is the case for most of the laws, since it would be difficult to expect all the details to be covered by the law itself. But in particular, in this situation, I still have very little to say about what is contained in the text of the legislation. So it is not really clear who will have to assume this obligation in the first place and who will have to join it later. If we could get a reassuring answer to that, that would be good. Here, too, I can say in closing, as I said at the previous item on the agenda, that it was indeed time for us to modernise and adapt legislation to the requirements of the present day. I hope that regulation at regulation level will also be adopted in this spirit. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-114	Thank you. I will now address Lőrinc Nacsa, who will give us the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-30-115	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I have already said my opinion on the reduction of bureaucracy and simplification on the previous agenda, and I would not repeat that. The current bill, as has been said, introduces the signature model certification system in government offices, which will result in a new, innovative service, the use of which can be used by citizens who are not experienced in electronic administration. In relation to this, a so-called signatory panel will be introduced in government windows to ensure the authentication of individual documents by the customer by recording image, dynamic and writing strength data of the customer and comparing it with the existing signature in the register. This will make personal administration paperless in the specific cases of the government window. This technique is already being used more widely by banks, courier services, market service providers, and beyond that, the state-of-the-art, safest and last but not least greenest administration will be possible in government windows. The bill also establishes the national construction monitoring and reporting system and the construction monito-ringing reporting system as part of it, which has been named the Glass Gate. The Glass Gate records the entry and exit data to the construction site and makes them available to the bodies and registers defined in this Act and later in the Government Decree. The purpose of the Glass Gate is to promote legitimate construction employment, to monitor construction contract relations and to whiten construction. We can see how much the whitening of the Hungarian economy has increased in recent years either with online cash registers, online invoicing and countless important economic whitening measures, which is another step, contributing to the legitimate and legitimate operation of the construction industry. [[16.00]] The Glass Gate therefore serves the interests of construction workers as it reduces their vulnerability and contributes to their protection of their interests. The bill therefore takes a further step towards the implementation of the customer-centred service state and wide-ranging, fast, simple and electronic administration services as well as the development of the economy, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support the bill. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-116	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-04-30-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I really agree with those previous speakers who have spoken about how timely a large part of this proposal is. It is more than timely, as is the previous proposal in connection with the real estate register. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) One of the central elements of this proposal is the introduction of a signature model as a means of certification in government offices and district offices, the management of which is indeed working well in many other areas of life. The essence of this is to allow the customer's signature to take place on an identification box on the basis of a signature sample. Another central element of the proposal is the national construction monitoring and reporting system. In this respect, the proposal aims to promote legitimate employment in the construction sector, to monitor contractual relations with the construction sector and to create an opportunity for analysis, according to the proposal itself. The construction monitoring and reporting system, the Glass Gate, is part of this system, as has been said, which records in real time eligible employees and guests in the construction work area for work. The system is mandatory for employers, but the system only applies to certain construction activities with a higher volume. Those in the construction work area shall be logged by the system with the employee's name and tax identification mark, professional activity, the date of entry and exit to the construction work area, the employer's tax number; in the case of the guest, the name, the identification of the identification document, the date of entry and exit from the construction work area, and the purpose of entry. However, given the intention of the proposal, this solution raises significant data protection concerns. It is, after all, that construction workers will be monitored in real time by the system whether they are at work or not. 2/2017. Resolution No 1 contains provisions on the collection of data on workers, citing the relevant practice of an EU working group. On this basis, I would like to quote this resolution. The handling of residence data may be justified when it is intended to improve the distribution of resources between services provided in the context of the surveillance of persons or freight transport or in scattered locations, e.g. real-time planning; or when the purpose relates to the safety of the worker or goods or vehicles entrusted to him. On the other hand, the working group considers data processing to be excessive if workers are free to organise their travels or if their sole purpose is to monitor the worker's work, if the observation can be done by other means. The quote lasted until now. This finding, although essentially related to vehicles, is also a guide in the present case. The opinion clearly points out that the observation of workers is in itself excessive and cannot be a legitimate reason for the real-time management of residence data, especially if otherwise feasible. In this context, there are also provisions on entry and exit, according to which such databases can only be legitimate in very small circles. The relevant data protection considerations are also missing from the explanatory memorandum, and the reasons for the proposal do not suggest that NAIH would otherwise have examined this draft and delivered an opinion on this. This is obviously understandable because it allows the State to have a wide range of surveillance rights towards employees, otherwise without a legitimate objective that has been justified. So it's understandable in that sense, but it's not acceptable to me. This does not comply with data protection rules either at home or at EU level, which could thus lead to the fundamental law infringement or violation of fundamental rights. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-30-118	Welcome back. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of DK will be Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are now looking at a proposal with a number of positive, good, useful points, and it also reminds me of a similar proposal that was discussed several months ago. As Parliamentary Secretary of State said, we have discussed several proposals recently on how to digitise a certain public service function, how to simplify bureaucracy, how to reduce it, how to reduce it. To turn the state into a hundredth century. I have responded to all such proposals before, even now, that DK always supports them, we always think it is good, we think it is good for citizens. It is good because the administration is faster in general, less trouble, easier to achieve the goals set by citizens. So the range of this proposal and its intention to try to digitize or solve a lot of things in a digital way is also okay, it is a part to be supported. What is involved in this is that we are trying to reduce bureaucracy as much as possible. There is obviously a need for public records and for the state to handle them and use them in some way, but let us keep this within a certain limit, and if we can act to reduce the existing bureaucracy, then let us take action. As I understand it, there is such a intention of this proposal, it is good, and it is okay that it has such a intention. And there is a third good part of this thing that the purpose of this bill is to whiten construction situations, contracts, if you will. We all know that construction contractors may not always announce their employees, it may not be real-time, or it may be announced for as long as it actually works. This proposal has such an intention to have a new system in it. So the three objectives that I have set, if I have decoded correctly from this proposal, must be supported on our part, good, useful and beautiful. It does this in two parts, in fact it has two main proposals for this whole thing. There is a signature model authentication system, the people before me have discussed it, we think it is perfectly okay and should be supported, and indeed, as Congressman Nacsa has said, this is already used in several places, from courier companies to many, many places, why not introduce it in this area as well? However, there is another part of this proposal, the reporting system for certain whitening of the construction sector and its specific part, the Glass Gate, which we believe raises a number of concerns. I can't get rid of the idea that we have to approach this question from a theoretical point of view. I think that the cash register and the construction worker are not the same category. So if we connect businesses' cash registers to the NAV in order to make the operation of companies even more transparent and make it even easier for NAV to account for them or even point out the incorrect declaration, it should be fully supported and fine. But it's a completely different category to follow people through their work, so if I interpret it correctly, then this proposal is about checking in in in the morning and until you check out, it's clearly kept, to be more precise: it's obvious that you checked in, so you're there, and when you check out, you can tell that you left. If I understand correctly, if you go back and forth more than once a day, so there's movement, then this system will also register it. I think that this goes beyond that line, even if the intention is noble, even if the government really wants to achieve the objective that the national secretary of state has said, so a kind of whitening, even then I think that this is an exaggeration. [[16.10]] I don't think it's the state's job to know where the individual people are. And it opens up the question of all kinds of electronic systems that surround us, and that really could be used to monitor people's actions, movements, activities, whereabouts, it is not by chance that we do not use them, to be more precise, there is a very serious limit to their use. If this is possible, what is in this proposal, then it is a gateway to the possibility of introducing this in other areas. Why only in construction? Why shouldn't it be possible to monitor the movement of Members of Parliament in the same way, when we will come in here and how we will go home? [[Nacsa Lőrinc will show you his key card.]] And we're talking about a database available to everyone here. We are talking about putting this together in a large database, and this is the problem for a wide range. The problem with this proposal, and many other proposals in this direction, is that in recent years the government has been very fond of creating databases and creating all kinds of data links between other public databases, giving access to them to as many offices and authorities as possible, which are able to do so... of course, always for a positive purpose, and arguing that these data collections, data links are necessary because it makes our lives even whiter, even clearer, even more orderly, but we have to talk about the fact that this has a drawback, there is a downside. And I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, you represent the government that we can't assume didn't go through the idea in the minds of certain members of the government that such a database and other databases could be good for all other political purposes. So the problem with this, and this has been said by several of my fellow Members from a different perspective, is that data collection will be carried out in this regard which raises the question that it is even legal, that it is even in compliance with data protection rules, that GDPR-compatible, and that in this context there has been any preliminary impact assessment or any professional evaluation that has gone through this, and that these concerns, which I have now put forward in a longer way, have indeed been taken over by you and your colleagues. And let me say one more thing, which is a small part of this, but I must mention that one of the objectives of this proposal is to monitor construction contracts and to monitor relations. This also raises a legal problem, as we are talking about certain companies or private contracts, so it is not about controlling public tasks or the activities ordered by the State, but it is also about the fulfilment, non-compliance, registration, implementation or collection of data between two people, a customer and an entrepreneur. It is not exactly clear what role the state has in this area. I understand the argument, it is also included in the explanatory statement, and Mr Secretary of State has also said that the aim of this would be to make sure that there is no problem, no problem, or to protect citizens, that if it were to happen that that rogue construction company does not act, does not employ the employees properly or does not carry out the task in that way. I understand this, and I just think that, in the interests of this goal, if this goal does go beyond that threshold, this proposal is going beyond the limit that can be envisaged for data protection or for the protection of privacy, so it goes beyond that border. Therefore, until these problems are resolved, unfortunately this is a bill that is difficult to support. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-120	Well, that brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. For a two-minute speech, thank God no one came forward. As a representative asking for a normal word, Congressman Dávid Héyj may speak, a representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-04-30-121	Thank you very much, I'll be very brief, even two minutes would have been a long time. Only to my fellow Member in Sebian-Petrovsk: I understand the bad thoughts you have in mind about us and our government, but if you would do so, Member, as you have now promoted the interests of workers as a left-wing party, they will be given much more opportunity and security by... not by name, not by face; I think that Mr. State Secretary and NAV colleagues do not have the hobby of watching where they have been at each time of the evening. It will provide security, brighten the construction economy, and one more thing, as Mr Secretary of State said, in the first round, in the test period, or, say, in an introduction period, only and only for investments that are subject to public procurement. In any case, you will also say that, in the case of investments that are subject to public procurement, what evils are happening. This is the opportunity, for example, to clean up investments that are subject to public procurement. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-30-122	Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk, two minutes.
u2021-04-30-123	Thank you very much. I understand your argument. I just don't agree with it. [[Hey, David, Adam spread his arms.]] I believe that this objective could be achieved in a different way than it has been tried in recent decades to achieve it in a different way, with different governments and states in different ways. That goes beyond what's acceptable. This is about keeping track of where those workers are from morning to night, during the working hours. I understand that you're arguing that this is necessary, of course, but you'll be linked to the fact that the company announced him for so long or not. And that would be a perfectly good goal, and all you have to understand is that that database is not just for this purpose. It can also be used to determine where the person was physically, and we are talking about tens of thousands of people who will be responsible for where he is, and indeed, the state offices will know that. I understand it's only a certain corner now, but the last few months have been about how these databases are connected by the state. We had these proposals before us, so if we open this gate now, and now we say that the daily movement of tens of thousands of people can be monitored by this system, and this system will take hold, which follows that, all right, in a few months' time, they will come and say, "Okay," then the health records will see this, see the police, see the... And it follows that this is already a violation of the sanctity of privacy, this is the problem, and that is why I ask you that you have even considered this data protection, lawyers, have thought about how to deal with this situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-30-124	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. So I will now ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to reflect on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State István György.
u2021-04-30-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I just want to respond very briefly to a few things. One is, I don't want anyone to take this as cynicism for a minute, obviously trivial, but there are a lot of offices and employers where you have to check in when you go in and check it out when you come out. I understand that it wasn't basically a problem, but it's not an unknown system, when the employer is monitoring how the salary is paid, whether the person is in the workplace or not. Perhaps the more important thing to say is what data interconnections are all about. I have experienced many times, if I may again use this memoir or memory, of the difficulty for administrators in many cases of not seeing into certain databases, of not being able to rely on facts that are very important when deciding. The social authority uses the data link, which is mentioned in the draft legislation, in principle to establish social benefits or child support fees, to verify that the persons concerned receive parallel benefits under another legal relationship. [[16.20]] It is clear that these data links and database links should always be provided under strict eligibility conditions and when necessary in the given procedure. In the case of the Glass Gate, we find that the use of the system itself is a minimum administrative burden. There is perhaps no debate that it is in any way in the interests of the whitening of the economy and of the safety of workers, as well as the protection of work and the fight against the black economy, because it is in our fundamental interest and the interest of the workers to ensure that there is no black employment. This is also in the interests of the Hungarian economy, and it is in the interests of the employee to be a notified worker, who will receive all his benefits after employment under a legal relationship. There is indeed a difference of opinion between your opinion and ours, but it is not surprising either, because we do not necessarily think everything about the world in the same way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-30-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it was possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. Have a nice day, have a nice evening. Take care. Goodbye.
