u2021-10-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that László Seszták died in the 84th year of our former colleague's life. László Seszták obtained a mandate from the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county regional list as a candidate for KDNP in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period. Under his mandate, he was a member of the municipal, budgetary and order committee. In 1989 he became a founding member and vice president of the Christian Democratic People's Party, and after 1994 he worked as coordinator of the group's experts. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Prime Minister of the Szabó Timea Group, the leader of the Dialogue Group, called "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, ma'am.
u2021-10-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday Hungary's first opposition election was completed. A total of 850 thousand people participated in the two rounds. That's how many people wanted and were able to say what kind of team to get together next year to replace Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. The primary was liberated from energy that has not been experienced in the last 11 years. With the primary election democracy returned to Hungary. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oh!]] Nearly a million people moved to get you out of the government together in the election. Thank you, everyone, to those who helped organize and conduct the pre-election, to the thousands of party and civil activists who sat in the tent for 12 hours a day, counting the votes, transporting the urns. With the pre-election Hungary finally moved, revived from its 11 years of paralysis. The winning team of 106 candidates has assembled, and the voters have also decided on the candidate for Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, whom I congratulate for the victory. The future has therefore begun, my fellow Members. The future is this winning team, which we will all support, as it is a guarantee that we will drive you and Viktor Orbán out of the government next year. From now on, we're closing up, fighting shoulder to shoulder, because that's the only way to stop unprecedented corruption in the world. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gergely Christmas was his guarantee!]] outsourcing of the rest of the health care to the public's paid private care [[Interviews from Fidesz: Lies!]] the abduction of our universities, the mass fleeing of our children abroad, the crushing of the poorest families and the fallen, the conversion of Lake Balaton and Lake Velence into the free beach of Lőrinc Mészáros, the colonization of our country in China and the hatred flowing from the tap. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You speak the language of love, that's good!]] Only then will we stop Viktor Orbán's now 11 years of amok running [[Intruder from Fidesz: Lies!]] If cooperation continues to be the closest cooperation, and we, the six parties, have signed on to it. For more than a year, we have been building the castle of cooperation brick by brick, because we know that this can only happen together. But not only the change of government, but also government will be joint, six-party. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where's Gregory?]] Next year, we will put an end to their personal cult, the one-man government. A new era has finally come to Hungary's politics, where the sovereignty of the individual will finally cease. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas Age?]] democracy will once again represent diversity, dialogue, common decisions, which, we know, is an unknown concept for you. In the next government, all decisions will be taken jointly by the Prime Minister and the six parties. The Parliament will take back the role of real legislation instead of pounding the button, and the government, as it should have been, will finally be the executive power again, next year it will not be the government's parliament, but the government of Parliament. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Yes! That's right!]] We see that this vision, the return of democracy, has caused Viktor Orbán and Fidesz a total panic. The boys were scared because it turned out their propaganda was a full gate, and the hate machine didn't work. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas came in.]] While the pre-election tents had long lines [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where is Gregory?]] Till then, stop everyone! At booths, your paid employees were lonesome. But we also know that Orbán and Fidesz will not stop now, but will start panic control in the rest of their time, and will try to lie more, steal more and cement their power. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've been saying that for ten years!]] We know that István Hollik, for example, will always stand up to say that 17 million people have now signed the. STOP everyone! Their voodoo-turking petition. But my bad news, dear fellow Members, is that the voters are not stupid, the voters can see that Monika Karas is suddenly giving up the head of the Media Authority so that you can appoint another president for nine years and concrete me in this position; that Gulyás Gergely now announces that they are amending the law in order to change and replace the chief prosecutor only by two thirds; that Orbán Ráhel and István Tiborcz are moving to Spain just now, that the family of the Prime Minister is fleeing from this country. But, my dear Viktor Orbán and his dear Fidesz Members, the situation is that they should also panic, I suggest that they ask for the number of the moving company of the Orbán Rachels, because next year we will take over the government. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We'll take back the stolen property and free this country from you. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-2	Thank you very much. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-10-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs President, for giving me a taste of what the left-wing love policy is like. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Let me add, however, that if you consider it important that hate speech in Hungary is not gained, then you will be told to your brand-new candidate that next time you should not discuss, for example, what use can be made of lamp irons. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's love speech too, isn't it?]] That's the thing. Give it to me, please. As far as the numbers are concerned, I consider it important that large groups of citizens in different cases express their views either in consultation or in a referendum or in a pre-election. But if the numbers are important, and I consider them to be important to you, then I can't go without saying that the governing parties were awarded their trust in the last election by nearly 3 million people. So if nearly one million is a resurgence of democracy, then 3 million is three times that. [[Szabó Timea: But that was the primary, you smartass!]] Not so long ago, honourable Member, not so long ago, a few days ago, you here in this Chamber, with similar confidence and similarly high horse, proclaimed that the parties of government were afraid and afraid. [[13.10]] And what did you say you were afraid of? Christmas from Gregory. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You said that Bence Tordai behind you said that we were afraid because Gergely Christmas will bring the alliance of the future as Prime Minister. Well, since then, [[Szabó Timea: They were afraid of Gergely Christmas!]] Gergely Christmas withdrew, and the way back was paved with serious and sometimes entertaining scenes. A person who doesn't follow politics could hear conflicting statements and promises falling to the ground in half a day. For example, they were texting each other about who would pull the wheel aside. And then they started thinking they'd rather run together. And then Gergely Christmas dropped one, and she said that she wouldn't quit unless some kind of tram came in. Then this tram arrived. [[Szabó Timea: We know you don't have dialogue!]] Whoever had little hope that Gregory Christmas had some kind of driving ability was likely to be destroyed these days. That's probably why his bosses took their hands off him at home and abroad. The flagship newspaper of the global financial and political forces, the Economist, announced a few weeks ago that they should know the man who will replace Viktor Orbán. Wasn't it a little early for that effort? Let the Hungarians decide this, honourable Member. [[Szabó Timea: The voters have decided!]] We'd like to leave one thing after Gergely Christmas's withdrawal. The mayor took a week's leave of absence after his withdrawal. To campaign while he hasn't done anything else in the last few months. During the many months of campaigning, the mayor dealt with many things, but not what the voters ordered: led by Budapest. Hundreds of thousands of people are reaping in traffic they've never seen before. Public safety is deteriorating, public cleanliness is deteriorating, two years have passed since Gergely Christmas was assigned to this task, not campaigning, but running a city. [[Szabó Timea: Didn't they rewrite your speech? He's not the candidate anymore!]] We don't see any trace of that. Budapest has been a campaign platform for you in recent months. But this town deserves more than that. Budapest is the capital of the country, the home of millions, and the pride of all of us. Let's not let him be a victim of left-wing inaction. It's in our best interest that you and your mayor finally get the job started. If you decide to start, the government will give you all the support you need. [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda also with the title: "On Current Affairs." You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the beginning of my speech, allow me a quick question, Secretary of State Dömötör. If you ignore the primary so much, why have you spent a lot more money in the last few weeks on your Facebook campaign in connection with the primary than all the opposition parties combined? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, there was indeed an end to the opposition pre-election, and, as has been said, more than 800,000 people have been involved. We have seen thousands of young people lined up to express their views. A lot of people voted online. Thousands of young people stood in line, and you have seen it, my fellow Members, and you can see that a lot of people have moved who have not participated in the elections before. A lot of passive voters have been involved in politics and expressed their views. I can tell you that this participation, this process, this activity not only gives hope to a lot of people, but this process itself will give the whole country hope that there will finally be a change, and there will finally be a real change, which is desperately needed in Hungary. Here during the pre-election, apart from the fact that you were the most active campaigners in various Facebook ads, let's see what you did specifically. During the pre-election, you have collected signatures against the opposition in the last few weeks, and you have published stupid, primitive, embarrassing videos for hundreds of millions of forints. You've been lying and lying for weeks now. You say that the past wants to come back, while you know very well that not only against the last 11 years, but also against the last three decades, this country needs to be changed, and that is what cooperating opposition parties are trying to do. You have attacked the opposition with selected lies, you are talking about the return of the past, and you are doing everything you once represented and advertised. Consider, for example, what they have done in the last few weeks or in the last few days. For the 24th time, you voted against the proposal for publicity of the agent files without a debate. A few days ago, you laid the foundation for the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project, which serves the Chinese interests, and you bring another 300 billion-dollar order to Lőrinc Mészáros's companies. Not as long ago as Paks II failed. Péter Szijjártó did not explain to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian public, but immediately flew to Moscow because he was assigned to the centre of Rosatom. Ladies and gentlemen, You have been enlightened and, half a year before the parliamentary elections, you have suddenly tabled a proposal that would link the recall of the Attorney General to a two-thirds majority, as has already been said, and it is equally apparent that the recall and resignation of the President of the Media Council is also intended to allow you to add yourself to this extremely important body by the current parliamentary majority for another nine years. Ladies and gentlemen, In contrast to your discrediting and lying campaigns, you are not united by the left, but by the entire opposition. There are left-wing, right-wing, liberal and green parties here, and there are a lot of civil and professional communities, and many, we hope, more and more Hungarian voters. At this time, we are writing programs, making suggestions, and you are humiliating on Facebook, and so you can personally look at such silly, disparaging comments. Isn't that pathetic for you, ladies and gentlemen? We, in consultation with professional organisations, are seeking a solution to the serious problems caused by your outrageous governance, while you stand behind counters and conduct empty, contentless campaigns against the opposition. This is certainly good for one thing, and it becomes visible to all Hungarians that there is nothing else to expect from you. At the end of the pre-election, I also congratulate Péter Márki-Zay, who was authorised with a very, very convincing result to become a joint candidate for Prime Minister of the opposition. I also congratulate Gergely Christmas, who you mentioned, has made a very, very difficult decision, but I think we can all see that this was a good and sound decision. I congratulate everyone who participated in the pre-election as a candidate for any function, and with respect, thank you very much to all the Hungarian voters who participated in this pre-election. [[István Szilárd Németh: Most of all, the Feri should be congratulated.]] We also have a great deal of thanks to all the thousands of people, activists, civilians and party activists who have participated in this process and have made it possible, with their sacrifice, to keep this pre-election. I'd like to talk to you about one more very important thing, which is of great importance. It is a great pleasure for us to learn a few days ago that, as a genuine national cooperation, the signature collection of the national regions, launched by the Székely National Council, could be legally valid, so we have met these conditions together. This has been a national cooperation, a Hungarian cooperation with which we have set an example for Europe as a whole in the past year and a half. I think that this is an important success and an important event that must be mentioned here at the Parliament meeting before the agenda. Congratulations to the organisers, congratulations to the initiators and to all those involved in this important initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-18-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2021-10-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I would be happy to explain to you why the return of the past is if you are campaigning for Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány loves power in an extraordinary way, and this is visible not in recent years, but in recent decades. Before the change of regime, he was very close to becoming one of the main players in power when he had a fast career with Demis and others in KISZ. [[Szabó Timea: László Fat...]] He tried to get there, at the dawn of the regime change, even in the communist regime, to become one of Hungary's top leaders, and had there not been a change of regime, he would certainly have reached the point of becoming one of Hungary's number one leaders within a few years. [[13.20]] However, the change of regime came up and his political career broke in two, but he saved this political capital into economic capital and thus survived a relatively longer period. Then he came in 2002, when we already know that he was also one of the main proposers of the campaign, and then, as a minister, he destroyed the minister who let him into the government and became Prime Minister of Hungary. He still needed a pre-show, a game that eventually won the Prime Minister's position in Hungary. Then, in 2009, when he saw that his situation was untenable, and then he put Gordon Bajnai in front of him, there was also a show in the 2009-10 period, so that he could somehow save himself. He saved it once at the change of regime and saved it for the second time around 2009, after the most failed period of government after the change of regime, to work here in Parliament for the first time as an independent representative and then as DK, the head of the DK faction. You know, from this you can see that Ferenc Gyurcsány is not a person who applies for second or third place. If he's on a list, if he's in a government, if he's in a political group, he wants to be first. He doesn't want to be a second, he doesn't want to be a consultant, he doesn't want to be a backup person, he doesn't want to be a gray eminence, he wants to be a number one leader. Therefore, when you were formed as LMP, or when Jobbik was formed, you all said that you wanted a future free of Ferenc Gyurcsány in Hungary, so your party name may be Other in Politics. That is what Jobbik said, and even the President of Jobbik said that he would ban Ference Gyurcsány from Miskolc and now invite Ferenc Gyurcsány to campaign together in Miskolc and everywhere throughout the country, honourable Member. So you have surrendered to Ferenc Gyurcsány. Political formations were created to push him out of Hungarian politics. The MSZP pushed him out of his ranks, but after a while, he also surrendered to Ferenc Gyurcsány, not to mention the Dialogue. The basis of Hungarian political renewal on the left would be to exclude Ference Gyurcsány from their political circle once and for all. But they didn't do that, they didn't work for this in the last few years, but to ask for the list of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Because during two and a half cycles, Jobbik, LMP, Dialogue described itself on the left, not to mention MSZP, which is why they wanted to join forces with DK. Ferenc Gyurcsány has already said that he has the strongest list of opponents on the left, and he will be the dominant representative of the left in the next term, honourable Member. And all you have done is try to ask me here, honourable Member. There was no substantial change on the left, as today the leader of the left is the same as he was in 2006 at the time of the autumn speech, in 2006 at the time of the police terror, in 2008-2009 at the time of the most severe austerity, when a month's wages were taken from the Hungarian people when a month's pension was taken. You're campaigning with the same man, serving the same man's survival in power. The whole Gyurcsány show, the whole pre-election was good for every political party who was in submission to Ferenc Gyurcsány's survival in power to help Jobbik, LMP, Dialogue or MSZP. And what have we learned from you lately, honourable Member? We've learned that you two are blackmailing each other by texting each other, threatening each other by texting each other, Your Honour. We learned that the period before the first act of the Gyurcsány show could have been who hates the right side more, then for two weeks between the acts we saw who hates the other one more within the left. This competition has been launched, honourable Member. We have seen what you are throwing at each other in two weeks' time, and we can see that if this ever dominated Hungarian politics, it would bring back both its style and its inefficiencies and failures in the 2006 and 2009 Gyurcsány era. The Hungarian people don't want any of this! And I ask you, Your Honour, that neither you nor Szabó Timea insult the people who sign the Stop Gyurcsány! Stop Christmas! And accept that others have different opinions than you do. You're campaigning for Gyurcsány, and others don't want Ferenc Gyurcsány's return. Respect them. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. László Varju, a representative of DK, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman Varju.
u2021-10-18-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, To Mr. State Secretary, five minutes and 20 seconds were not enough to answer a very simple question about why hundreds of millions of forints were spent in order to put an end to the very important political action of the opposition. Then the next Secretary of State should try to find an answer to this very simple question, even because the first national pre-election took place with success beyond all expectations. It was a brave decision by the six parties to oppose Fidesz's ambition, after all, that there was an election first round. Therefore, the greatest thanks to the party activists and civilians involved in the operation, and especially those voters, more than 850 thousand people who have been able to solve this together on a difficult course, have taken advantage of this opportunity. For days they sat in the tent in the rain, in the cold, or in the heat, and helped, because the state withdrew from it and did not let Fidesz prevent it. Therefore, after the opposition election, the rule of law can return with victory, and that is why we are working, and we will continue to do so. The main winners of the primary election, the voters, have declared that they do not ask for your party state system. They selected 106 opposition candidates and joint prime minister candidates, Péter Márki-Zay. Congratulations to all of you, and I ask the voters to forget the possible grievances of the battles of the last few days so that the criminal system of Fidesz can be replaced. In the special process of the pre-election, the opposition itself has undergone a significant change, as two parties, Jobbik and the Democratic Coalition, from the entire opposition, have taken their own size, while the others will continue to work together to move forward. As a strong party to the opposition, the Democratic Coalition has consolidated its position, it has been able to elect most of its representatives to become the challenger of Fidesz, and that is what we are talking about. As a joint candidate, this will be the next step. However, DK will represent all left-wing voters in the next period as a party to the progressive left. We are after a very difficult week, perhaps even with unnecessary tensions, but the tense week, the tense mood, ended yesterday. Our attention will be on the completion of the joint programme and, therefore, on the preparation of the joint change of regime. This requires peace within the opposition, so that there are no new conflicts, and it is right that no one wants to rewrite the rules in which the six parties have already agreed. Peace and working together with our constituents will lead us to their further reassuring support, and to what we want together with them, to replace Fidesz. It is only in this way that we can restore Hungary's freedom and create the fourth republic. With the support of the Hungarian people, we will take back the greater part of the government power, the one that you will outsource in the process of escape. We're going to have your public property looters accounted for. Strangler corruption will be curbed by a strict conflict of interest law and we will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We will restore the freedom of the press, the independence of public media, and, surprise, you will not be driven away from the MTVA building, but will be called in. We will give back the rights and responsibilities of the municipalities and ensure fair funding for this. We are modernising the Republic, and in this context we are modernising the economy. We green Hungary, put green energy in the spotlight, and support the accession to the European Energy Union. [[13.30]] In four years, we will lead Hungary back to where it has always wanted to be - Europe - as an esteemed member of the family of EU states. This requires a change of regime, and the Hungarian people have given us permission to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. What has been said on behalf of the Government [[István Szilárd Németh: But where is Feri?!]] State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond.
u2021-10-18-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You referred to the primary in your speech as a celebration of democracy. Well, I've looked at your results on the primary: you've got 9854 votes, the problem is that this is 100 percent of the votes cast, because you were the only candidate. [[Csaba Dömötör: Go!]] This is your democracy! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Congratulations. [[László Varju: Thank you!]] It's a popular democracy. In North Korea, things work with very similar logic. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The thing is, again, this tells us a lot about the left and the Democratic Coalition. You believe that democracy is where there is only one candidate: you. The freedom of expression that someone who thinks differently than you do is led by a cavalry attack, and economic growth when the Small Fork is built and beautiful. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It was before 2010, and you haven't changed a bit. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The other thing I would like to say about you and the performance of the Democratic Coalition is that you said it here in your speech, and Ferenc Gyurcsány said that you came out of the primary as the largest, strongest party; I did not hear the applause from the other left parties there, because we agree: indeed, the pre-election was good for one thing: the strengthening of the Democratic Coalition and Ferenc Gyurcsány. Of course, they made a pact with Péter Márki-Zay and the role of the Sherpa who takes Ferenc Gyurcsány to the top of the power [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] This time it was not divided into Péter Medgyessy, but into Péter Márki-Zay, and it doesn't really change much. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Do you know what will happen to Péter Márki-Zay when you go in and check with Ferenc Gyurcsány? It's the same as with a simple worker in socialism: you go to your boss with your opinion and leave with his. [[Zoltán Balczó: Says Rogán! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Is this the Rogan Ministry? Intercoms from the opposition.]] This will be controlled by the left in Hungary, and this was before 2010. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] On the other hand, when we took over government in 2010, we put the Hungarian state on a completely new foundation and renewed the constitutional system. We will not allow the idea of democracy, the idea of freedom of expression, the approach of the economic system that you claim to return to Hungary again. We doubled the wages, we managed to raise employment to record heights [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Government debt!]] , historical economic growth is expected in Hungary; we will rebuild the 13th month pension that you have taken from the Hungarian people, we will introduce tax exemptions for people under the age of 25, and families raising children will get their income tax back. And in higher education, from which you have withdrawn resources, we place an unprecedented amount of extra resources. The congressman also mentioned campaign spending. Do you know who spent the most in the primary campaign? [[Interventions from the opposition: The Fidesz!]] Gergely Christmas spent the most, more than 500 million forints. And you know who says that? Péter Márki-Zay. So what I'd like to say is that you're going to be sweeping around your own house on this, and you've got a lot to account for in this regard. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] I would also like to tell you that we will not allow the left-wing government, which was led by Ferenc Gyurcsány before 2010, to return to Hungary at any time in one form or another. We're not gonna let that come back. At that time, Hungary lost its economic and political sovereignty, became vulnerable to foreign credit institutions, multinationals, a moral crisis, Guardists marching on the streets, and policemen were honoured for eye-shooting; the economy was in ruins, with a EUR 20 billion IMF loan, 12 percent unemployment and 54 percent employment, and a series of austerity measures. They raised the rent; I see that they want to continue this policy. Accession to the European Energy Union is a policy of raising costs, and it is exactly the same policy that was followed in Hungary before 2010. They reduced the duration of the child, raised VAT, took a month's wages from public sector employees. We know, Congressman, that it is the left that wants the benefit of the people, but the Hungarian people do not want to give it to him. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that we will not be on your side, but on the side of the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary will be reborn. 854,000 voters have decided in recent weeks that they want to be part of the rebirth. Hungary's first parliamentary election was an historic event, a historic event that brings Hungary another step closer to freedom from Fidesz rule, an event that contributes to the creation of a free, just, solidarity and green country. We can only thank the vast number of voters, the parties, movements, civilians, activists, volunteers who participated in the pre-elections and helped to carry it out; liberal-conservative voters and left-wing and social democratic voters supporting the MSZP. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the people who have sent messages to the yachting, private flying, helicoptering, urizing Fidesz elite, saying that time has passed. The primary has shown that every day more and more people are fed up with Fidesz. It says everything about this atmosphere that 220,000 new voters participated in the second round, mostly young, enthusiastic, and very angry at Fidesz because they fear for their future. You see, as long as the Fidesz elite moves to Marbella, is luxurious, they may not have their own apartment, they're insecure about starting their own life, they don't know if they're going to retire or they're going to have to leave their country in the hope of a better life. And the Fidesz is clearly scared of this phenomenon. We could say that there is no propaganda that can suppress the voice of the disgruntled, but it has been attempted. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that public media with our common money has not reported on the pre-election, for them the larger half of Hungary does not matter. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: From the hunting exhibition!]] Fidesz began to fear; he began to fear that the power might come to an end, that from the background power built on fidesz cadres only the background would remain. They're cementing their own people into different positions one by one, and you know why? Because they know that Fidesz will fail in 2022. We, the parties of the Democratic opposition alliance, civil movements and the people who want to change, will be ready for this moment, because the pre-election has proved that, in the end, it is always the people who decide. Ladies and gentlemen, The competition within the Democratic opposition alliance is over. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the presidential candidate elected in the primary election, and we expect this from the other parties of the Democratic opposition alliance. And we expect the elected Prime Minister candidate to hear the voices of the young and the needy. Today, 62 percent of youths aged 18 to 34 live with their parents. Tens of thousands of local governments are waiting for a rental. Home building grants give very few people the opportunity to make homes. We therefore insist that, after 2022, 15 thousand apartments are built annually for young people and those who lack it with the involvement of local authorities. 1.4 million Kádár cubes, 1.4 million panels and apartments and a large number of family houses await renovation and modernisation. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You built it!]] Renewal grants are only going to a very small number of people here as well. We insist that 200,000 apartments be renovated every year after 2022. Heating-modernization, building insulation and window replacement: EU funds should be used for this purpose, not for the renovation of Lőrinc Mészáros hotels. [[13.40]] These programmes address the housing crisis, strengthen the local economy, are also important from an environmental point of view, reduce CO2 emissions, reduce heating bills and increase people's wealth. This is the new social democracy and green policy that we represent. We insist on this, for our future together, for Hungary.
u2021-10-18-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Bertalan Tóth. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2021-10-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In recent weeks we have seen the struggle of the Hungarian Socialist Party, even though they said between the two acts that they do not support anyone, and then they said that they do support one of the candidates. You have said that, and you have said that, honourable Member. You speak very well of the need to respect the opinion of the electorate. Then it would be worthwhile for you to consider that, in the past period, in 2010, 14 and 18, the voters supported Fidesz-KDNP in a large majority to lead this country, and that at the time when they voted in the third term, people knew the decisions that we made in the first cycle, in the second cycle. If you want to respect the voter's opinion, it would be good if, in the context of the national consultation, you did not say that people should not give an opinion, but said that we should give an opinion. Or, for example, when it comes to the adoption of legislation on the fact that the LGBT propaganda in kindergartens, small schools, cannot be brought to the children without the knowledge of the parents, then you do not say that people speak their opinion in this, but say that people are boycotting the referendum where it concerns the education of their own children. How come one minute he talks like that, the next he talks like that? It was this kind of misconception that led the Hungarian Socialist Party to the fact that DK now did not even list the Hungarian Socialist Party among the major parties or among major independent parties, only Jobbik and DK, and the MSZP came in line with the LMP and Dialogue in their eyes, honourable Member. You have not made housing easier for people during your own period, you have eliminated HUF-supported housing loans, you have chased people into foreign currency loans, and you have not made it easier to maintain the apartments when they have raised the price of the rent 15 times, and you are obviously not preparing for anything else. You are here in Parliament, honourable Member, and I remember you standing up several times as your group leaders and saying that we need to switch to the gas price system, the energy price system that is better adapted to world market prices and that the current system needs to be abolished. If so, you know that the Hungarian people would pay a much higher price, and they would pay an average of HUF 32,000 more a month if they had to pay the price of gas and energy according to world market prices. This would amount to nearly HUF 400,000 per year for voters and every person who pays their bills. This is what you have been demanding for years, and you have been demanding that there be market-type regulation, and now you are saying that it should be cheaper. But what have you done, Your Honour? While in the last 12 years, we have raised the state's wealth by one and a half times, you have sold what I understand. It's gonna be a long list. Antenna Hungária was sold, Bábolna Food Company, Bakony Power, BÁV, Budapest Bank shares, Dédás-, Dégas, Egygáz-, Kögáz-, Tigás-, Dágas-, Démász Rt. shares. Dunaferr, Dunamenti Power Plant, ELMû, Ferihegy Airport, FHB Bank, Metropolitan Gasworks, all sold. Metropolitan Waterworks, Gyulai Húzkombina, Postabank shares, Rába Magyar Vagon and Machine Factory, Titasz, HungarHotels, Hungarocamion shares, Hungexpo shares, IBUSZ, Kométa, Konzumbank, Hungarian Credit Bank, Mahart, MOL Zrt. shares, Malév's sale, Matáv stock sale, Mátrai Erőmű, MÁV Cargo, which was valuable from the Hungarian State Railways and was able to generate profit, sold; MKB Bank, MOL shares, National Book Publisher. You have even sold the textbook publisher to foreign owners to decide from abroad what kind of history books are actually being created in Hungary. Pápai Meat, Pécsi Waterworks, and you could name it, honourable Member. You sold me what I understand. Your government was about trying to live up to the state's wealth, and there was also austerity, the taking of a month's pension, the taking of a month's wages and mass redundancies, honourable Member. You have laid off 6,000 people from health care, dismissed 15,000 teachers, dismissed countless civil servants in the midst of downsizing waves, and are now talking about providing greater security in the health or education system. You've created 12 percent unemployment by indebting the country and selling the state's wealth, some of which I've just listed for you. You took on an IMF loan, even though what I understand was privatized and sold. You have put the municipalities in a state of bankruptcy, which the Fidesz-KDNP government had to correct after 2010 and pay them their debts, honourable Member. In 2006, you announced a five-year tax reduction programme, and after the election the VAT was increased by 5 percent. You wanted to put in real estate taxes so that everyone who has a decent apartment would pay taxes to the government. You've closed hospitals all over the country, you've shut down three hundred and eighty-eight local schools. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And now they've told me that they're about to close the local schools again, which is still open. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, leader of the Jobbik faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-10-18-17	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members! No, don't be discouraged. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I know you were hoping I'd be a little quieter after the primary, but don't get your hopes up. The only way they're gonna get rid of me is if you leave this House. Believe me, we're working on leaving all 133 next year. We had a pre-election precisely so that the Hungarian people would tell us who would become the joint Prime Minister candidate who would defeat Viktor Orbán next year. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And who will be the 106 joint candidates to challenge and defeat your local kings next year? As President of Jobbik, I would like to congratulate every candidate who has won the right of departure in this noble struggle. Special congratulations to the 29 winners of Jobbik and, of course, a huge congratulations to the winner of the pre-election, the opposition's joint candidate for Prime Minister [[Dr. Bence Rétvári to Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Márki-Zay to Peter. Jobbik stands by the word: we support the winner with full chest width, and we ask the voters to do the same. I know that there may be some of them now who are disappointed, some who might have started something else, others who would have sent another to battle against Viktor Orbán. But let's believe that there's no room for lollipop right now, no room for insulting, no room for tearing up. The winner must be supported by everyone, because this is the only way to defeat the Orbán system. Of course, I know very well that the parrots here will tell us that Gyurcsány is the boss. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] No, no! Dear Parrot Ladies and Parrot Lords! It's not Gyurcsány who's in charge here. You know who's in charge here? The voter! The electorate is the boss, who has told me that you've had enough of you and, by the way, enough of fighting the opposition. The electorate is the boss who told us to rise to the challenge and join forces, and we oppositionists have joined forces for this country! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the meantime, what are you doing? They're declaring a peace march against us. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Hugo Boss!]] Hungarian announces a peace procession against Hungarian. Now, this is your national policy, hatred, incitement, exclusion, and that is what the Hungarian people are tired of! [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You betrayed each other!]] This country wants peace after twelve years of intense hatred. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you banning the peace procession?]] He wants peace, freedom, prosperity, predictability. The future Hungary will be like this! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Peace with strangulation!]] The future Hungary will be like opposition cooperation: united but diverse. It's diverse because we don't have to think the same thing about everything. We are not like you, fellow Members, we are not sheep who blindly follow the sheepherder. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] No! We are thinking Hungarians who sometimes argue and then agree. They agree because we share our country, we share our problems, and we have to be able to say the common national minimums on which we can build Hungary of freedom and prosperity. The most important national minimum, in which all of us, opponents, have been able to agree, is not going to please you. Do you know what that is? The fact that after thirty years there will finally be accountability in Hungary, because that is what the real change of regime begins with. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Yes, we have to give people what their sense of justice has been waiting for for 30 years, because we say that in the last 30 years, not much has disappeared from this country, just national wealth. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about Feri?]] But that's why no one's ever been sent to prison, and that's because you've always carved the law until somehow, I don't know, personalized applications, where Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle always win the billions. You, by means of law, did not condemn theft, but legalized it. Now, that's what we're gonna turn around. We're gonna make the law until it's justice. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: The Communists did the same thing!]] We're gonna carve the law until theft doesn't turn into theft, because it's not a billion-dollar application money, it's a luxury plane, it's a prison and a confiscant to develop wages, pensions, health care or education. [[13.50]] We agree, don't we, fellow Members? If you can't steal a pound of bread, then you can't steal a country, can you? ! The new national unity government will put an end to the mister-brother system, put an end to the era of retribution, we will connect Hungary to the EU prosecutor's office, and we will set up the Hungarian anti-corruption prosecutor's office on the Romanian sample. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] You know, that's the authority that in Romania is imprisoning corrupt mayors and corrupt government members for dozens. If they can do it there, we can do it here. In Slovakia, they're sewing the Attorney General for 14 years, fellow Members. If they can do it, we can do it. So Peter Polt is ready! You want to save the Attorney General with such a law, even though you want to protect Peter Polt with such a law, you can't do it, fellow Members. It's the law, whether it's voted or not, that's what it's worth. [[He's gonna split the paper in his hand. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] You know why? Because Peter Polt doesn't need to be replaced, but we're going to put him away.
u2021-10-18-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2021-10-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Well, as far as the relationship between love and hatred is concerned, I'd like to inform you, although you probably know very well that your new candidate for Prime Minister was contemplating what the lamp iron could be used for. Your joint boss threatened to send right-wing men to jail, and you threatened to make them land runners, at your event, taking a man down with a strangulation. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] So you're going to ask for love? Now, that's pretty steep. By the way, those who said that pre-election results, whether or not, will be right will not change anything about your provocative speeches. [[Turning to the pro-government benches:]] It's like nothing happened, right? But it happened because if the process called the primary has a loser, it's Jobbik and you. [[James Peter: You are his losers!]] You have made the decision to make a big pact with the left, you have told your supporters that it will be good, it will be worth it in the long run, I'm sure that's what you said, you gave up your party and you put it in front of the left-wing politicians. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Sure, sure!]] They even agreed to a division of roles, where you have the angry voice in Hungarian politics. We remember very well what kind of productions were to be performed here in Parliament, well, he's doing one now, and it's getting boring. Then came the first round of the primary, and even though they gave up everything, they gave it all away, you were voted out, and you were voted out personally. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, 29 candidates.]] He was voted off, exiled to fourth place. The provocations, the parliamentary shit, the shit like the one you just showed me. [[Peter James: Is this trouble?]] And giving up Jobbik's independence came in handy for the left, but from now on, they don't need you. You've done your duty, you can go, you've been replaced with Péter Márki-Zay. Now you'll often find yourself in the role of a painter who looks at the cast, but can't find his own name anymore. The thing is, there's nothing they can do about it, because they're in a pact. Who? Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] You guys start laughing in pain, but let's see. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: That's why he doesn't get a bonus!]] What Ferenc Gyurcsány posted on his side twenty or a few minutes ago [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Push this a little more and we'll win by two-thirds!]] 'Cause he didn't come in here, but he posted it. I quote, please, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the right, pay attention: the DK has grown stronger, became the largest and strongest opposition party, the challenger team has stood up. He says so, and you joined him. Many of your former supporters have certainly contacted you in the past few days, and have they surely asked: Peter, Peter, are we on the right path? I don't know what you said to them, but it couldn't have been an easy explanation, because the point is, after all, you created a national party years ago, whose basic rule was that the primary task was to remove the Communist successor party and the extremist liberals joined with it from power. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: They're sitting across from us! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Workers! György Szilágyi intervenes.]] It's been a few years, and what happened? They now share posters with the post-communist candidates, you personally shined on a poster with Gyurcsányi candidates and signed to the extremist liberals. Mr. Group Leader, I understand you're tense in this situation, but let me ask you one thing. Knowing that Jobbik's independence was finally eliminated, his soul was taken away, and his president was demoted, let me ask you face to face: was it worth it? Was it all worth it? [[Zoltán Balczó: Can He Answer? Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] I'd say it's not too late to change, but that wouldn't be true at all, because this ship has sailed. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: For you!]] You have created a national party, and you have the glorious task of turning off the lights. Well, it's not gonna be a nice wake-up call. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. - Noise. - Noise.]]
u2021-10-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's ringing.]] István Hollik, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We have to face the unfortunate fact that Europe has not yet overcome the coronal virus epidemic and the economic crisis caused by the virus, and Europe is facing another crisis because there is a crisis in Europe. Prices have gone wild, and in almost all countries in Europe, thanks to God, Hungary is the refreshing exception, but everywhere they feel that they have to pay more and more for their rent. It is also part of this sad situation that this crisis has been caused by Brussels. So when we look for the word "what Brussels has done," the word "responsible" may be the most useful. The fact is that this crisis was largely caused by Brussels. After the economic brake caused by the Crown Virus crisis, energy would now be needed for the reboot, but Brussels' rash actions, poorly timed and unthinkable energy reform, are now avenged. Brussels has forced the reduction of traditional European energy production by reference to climate protection, thereby endangering the energy security of European citizens. Of course, we agree with the climate protection goals, but Brussels has only ruined the timing, forced the traditional European energy system to be dismantled without building green instead. So you timed it wrong and that's why Europe's in trouble now. There is only one solution, a national solution, that works in this crisis, and this is the Hungarian solution, which is called the reduction of the overhead. We are committed to climate goals, and we prove this not only orally, but also in action. The Hungarian economy has been able to grow since the 1990s while reducing emissions by 32 percent. If we look at the energy prices, we can see that Hungary had one of the highest tariffs in Europe before the introduction of the reduction of the rent, and now, after the introduction of the reduction, we can see that it is one of the lowest in Hungary in the midst of the European energy prices that are being released. To give concrete examples: electricity prices, i.e. electricity prices, pay more than three times as much electricity in Copenhagen as we do in Vienna, they pay two and a half times as much in Stockholm. But to say a neighbouring country, Warsaw pays twice as much, and in Bucharest they pay almost twice as much for electricity. The situation is even worse in terms of gas: in Stockholm they pay ten times as much, but the Dutch pay five times as much for gas as we do in Hungary. So it is quite clear that the Hungarian electricity reduction works and that the Hungarian energy policy works, which has basically four pillars: the reduction of electricity, nuclear energy, Paks II, strengthening green energy and the long-term gas agreement. For us, energy is not a political issue; it is a security issue, the issue of energy security for the Hungarian people, an economic issue, and not least a matter of sovereignty. Because Hungary cannot be sovereign, we cannot decide our own fate if we cannot provide the right amount of energy for our citizens and businesses. [[14.00]] We have seen that, in this respect, we have not yet been able to count on the left. Each of the four pillars was attacked. They've attacked the reduction of the rent, and they're attacking it to this day. Here, a representative of LMP attacked the Paks II investment and, by the way, also attacked the long-term gas agreement. So I would rather suggest to Péter James and his associates that it would be worth paying attention to this in the midst of two hatreds because they are about to introduce a climate tax in the EU right now, my fellow Members, which would mean 32 thousand HUF a month for every Hungarian person who owns a car and a house, which is almost 400 thousand HUF a year for families. So instead of threatening me, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] instead of resisting. We will resist and we will not allow the European Union to introduce a climate tax. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will respond on behalf of the government.
u2021-10-18-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Brussels is indeed preparing to tax families, families with an apartment or even a motor vehicle, with a complicated system. We are also well aware that, in Brussels, climate protection is something that I want to achieve by increasing energy prices, but we cannot let that happen. Brussels wants to impose new taxes on us on the basis of climate change, as I said, on families, on families with homes, houses or cars. This would increase the costs of Hungarian families, and we would like Hungarian families not to have to pay extra costs for this. Therefore, Hungary, together with the Visegrád countries, does not accept this initiative for Brussels, as these, we are well aware, would lead to a further increase in energy prices. Honourable Congressman, Europe has not experienced high energy prices for a long time. The price of natural gas increased by 400 percent compared to a year ago, and the price of electricity doubled. If the market would have to pay the Hungarian families the right price for gas and electricity at home, then a family would have to pay an average of 400 thousand forints more per year for the overhead costs. If we have to fight Brussels again for the reduction of the rent, we will do so. It seems that once the reduction in costs has not been enough, since then we have to protect low prices, especially now, partly from the rise in world market prices, and partly from further and further attempts in Brussels. In addition to the EU climate neutrality targets planned for 2050, the reduction of energy prices for the population and the issue of energy security must be kept in mind when deciding on the development of an energy policy for a sovereign country. Therefore, we firmly, repeatedly stand by the fact that the financial cover needed to achieve climate targets must not be borne by families, but must be borne by climate destroyers, as they are the ones who are making a profit on this. By the way, we have been confirmed, Mr honourable Member, Honourable Parliament, by the Hungarian people, because in the context of the national consultation we also asked their opinion, and 99 percent of the fillers agreed with this government position. So we have something to lean on. Mr President, it is also important to talk about the fact that we cannot allow the Gyurcsány era to come back in energy policy, whose politicians want to raise more and more taxes today, they want to introduce more and more taxes, inter alia, on the grounds of climate protection, and they want to raise the fees again and again. We remember well that under the left, when they were on the steering wheel, they tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity. And today, the left is led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, during his administration, was cynically able to say only: "There is no need to be afraid, there will be no pain, while there has been a 15-time increase during his administration. In addition, while the overhead prices increased, in the Gyurcsány era the utility companies were played into the hands of foreigners and allowed these companies to profit on Hungarian families and Hungarian people. It is no coincidence that, under their governance, Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity in the European Union, by way of the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány provided his own company, the Timi Land Factory in Hungary, with the possibility to purchase electricity at a reduced price. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So the left has not changed, but we continue to stand up for the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of Group of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2021-10-18-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, After all, the weeks behind us call for a political assessment of the situation, and look at the current issues now. We have heard from the speakers before us today that, with the participation of 600-700 thousand people, you believe this charade has taken place, which is a great celebration, but you have failed to say that twice as many people have already signed a petition that does not want to hear you. Don't underestimate those, either, and I suggest you wait until we run for election before you announce a result. Thank you for the happy moments. Congratulations to Ferenc Gyurcsány for a great organization. It was great fun. In the end, he became a great winner of this charade, himself and the Democratic Coalition. The largest left-wing group in the next parliament will be the faction dominated by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who will tell us what the political attitude to follow on your side, on the left. We are all sitting here, we know that Parliament's rules are relatively simple, the political weight and influence of the larger groups are, of course, greater, as their electoral legitimacy is greater. What, on the other hand, has happened to you who are so proud of your achievements? No offense to the socialists, but you've just come to the edge of the grave. It's worth talking about Jobbik, too. [[Peter James: I don't go to Graz, my friend!]] We can start with you, Mr. President. The truth is, over the past few years, your leadership has lost two thirds of your voters, which tells us a lot about your political performance. I could tell you that the handcuffs aren't crazy. You are, Mr. President. [[Delight, applause from the opposition benches.]] The thing is, Mr President, with your constant threat, you have failed to obtain too many voters. The Moment, which can get 3 percent on its side with its own party president, cannot look forward to a bright future. I think the LMP is photosynthesizing. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter James: The KDNP prays!]] And the Dialogue never existed. So the thing is, there's a shining star on your side, but it's Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party DK. The largest faction is expected, the largest national party organization, the largest media support, most resources. So, despite all the yapping, I like it, I don't like it, you've been shredded by the big Gyurcsány machine, and it's sad, but you've happily put your head in this loop. And it is also a fact that the Péter Márki-Zay, whom you consider to be another savior, you have had quite a few saviours, and they have had a savior named Bajnai, and they had a savior named Botka, last time they had a savior named Christmas, and now they don't even have a savior, and now they have a messiah in the person of Péter Márki-Zay. But the truth is that his words, his statements, made it clear to him yesterday that in his mind there was no Gyurcsány-free Hungarian public life, he talked about an alliance, he spoke about a common stage, he spoke about a common stand, and what was even more terrifying, his fantasies were not any more: he spoke about common governance. [[14.10]] So Péter Márki-Zay will be the lucky winner to bring Ferenc Gyurcsány back to power. You have come from Ferenc Gyurcsány to Ferenc Gyurcsány. The fact is that, in view of the fact that we do not suspect, but know exactly what a Gyurcsány government involves, with its tax increases, with its overhead increases, I also refer to the 2004 Hungarian hating referendum, the fact that when blood was spilled on the streets of Budapest, the Hungarians know what this was, so it does not solve the situation at all, whoever won your act; the person of Péter Márki-Zay does not solve the problem of the Hungarian public life called Ferenc Gyurcsány's desire for power, so much that he did not enter into an alliance with it. The largest faction will elect the Prime Minister, as your dear boss just told us in a video on his social media site today. What do you expect? Who's gonna dictate the pace? The Prime Minister's candidate must legally conclude a pact with the president of the largest party. And this will be Ferenc Gyurcsány. The Marquis-Zay-Zay Ferenc Gyurcsány pact is now in effect, starting from here on in the show, or, if you will, in your scenario. But given that the Hungarians do not want to watch this show anymore, we will continue to collect our signatures so that you can see what it means to be a real majority. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-10-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was one of the important moments of last night's events and announcements that when it was announced in a loud way, I quote, the opposition was replaced, with the same momentum they also announced that they would cooperate with Klára Dobrev and the Gyurcsány Party. It can also be seen that despite the forced claims, the process called the pre-election has not brought about any substantial change in substance, because the left has not settled its relationship with the past, the same groups are entering for government positions, the difference is that they are now putting something else on the posters or in the window. Here, too, let us record what Ferenc Gyurcsány said on his Facebook page a few minutes ago: DK became the largest and strongest opposition party. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, What may seem like a change, as far as the window is concerned, and in fact it is not a change, is that the left has chosen a real career left for Prime Minister's candidate. It's kind of fun when this guy says he's on the right. If it were, there wouldn't be any lines behind the PMs, the Gyurcsányi and the right-wingers, the new right-wingers. Péter Márki-Zay's resolutions also make it clear that he has made a pact with the left. In the next few days, they'll try to deny it, try to get into oblivious maneuvers, try to make such disputations, but in vain. Let us look at some decisive resolutions on this, some directly from Péter Márki-Zay. So the quote follows, Péter Márki-Zay:. Ferenc Gyurcsány's experience, the indisputable success of party building can help turn Hungary from the East to the West. At last, corruption will be brought to an end together, and the country will be economically caught up with the Union. Oh, that's it, Ferenc Gyurcsány. In their time, economic performance has decreased by 7 percent! Where would a right-wing politician say that? Then let's see the next one. Péter Márki-Zay will implement a joint programme in which left-wing programme elements and even liberals have important points of interest. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The money, my dear, the money! Everybody just give me the money!]] So there is no mention of a conservative government in Hungary. I ask this House where a right-wing politician would say that. And one more, I quote: "Please, there is no fairy tale, and the parties and civilians cannot quarrel, you must join forces with Gyurcs. And that's already done, because DK will have the largest faction. Let us ask again: what right-wing man would work to make DK the largest faction? Which right-wing politician would work for the success of the post-communists, but honestly! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For your success?]] President James, really, who would be working on this? [[Delight and applause from the pro-government benches.]] Because you know it very well. What I am talking about is not such an uncoordinated political theory; it is something that can affect Hungarians' livelihoods. Because Péter Márki-Zay is also well integrated into the left in the sense that, for example, he is attacking the reduction of the rent only as an example of the last few days, supporting migration [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: What migration? What are you talking about?]] And hold on tight. He's against minimum wage. Let us not talk about the fact that he joined forces with those who had been shot at by their own people and denied support from the foreign Hungarians. After all this, we come to the conclusion that anyone who seems to be a left-wing politician from both a distance and a close-up on even and odd days acts like a left-wing politician is nothing more than a left-wing politician. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] So whatever you do in the next few days, that's the point. So it's not the future knocking from over there, it's the rusty past. We don't want to let you in. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik: How fast can you read! It's gonna go without paper.]]
u2021-10-18-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, With great respect, on the occasion of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship, I welcome Mr Valery Simeonov, former vice-president of the Bulgarian National Assembly to Hungary. and Mr. Hristo Polendakov, Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria. (Applause. Stand up in the box and thank you for your applause.) Dear Parliament, Thanks to the presentation of Vice-President Valery Simeonov, the Bulgarian National Assembly declared 19 October at the same time as the Hungarian Parliament in September 2016. For the sixth time this year, we are celebrating the Hungarian-Bulgarian, Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day, commemorating the patron saint of Bulgaria, the Szent János Csodádévő Rilai. Mr. Vice President, Please accept the respectful welcome of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Now Varga Simeon's speech before the Bulgarian minority spokesperson will take place in a five-minute period:. October 19th entitled the Day of Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship. I give the floor to Congressman Varga Simeon, who describes the first sentences in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2021-10-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми НародноСъбрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Искам специално да приздравя нашите български гости и просланика на България в Унгария, които ще вземат участие в събитията на Деня на унгарско-българското приятелство на 18-19 октомви. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, as a representative of the Bulgarians in Hungary and as a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, to welcome you on the occasion of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day. I would particularly like to welcome our Bulgarian guests and the Ambassador of Bulgaria to Hungary, who are taking part in the events of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship on 18-19 October this year. Allow me to welcome all those who are celebrating with us today across the border from here and across the border. The 19th of October is of paramount importance in Bulgaria's festive calendar and now in Hungary: on this day will be the Day of St. John Csodádévő, the Saint of the Orthodox Church and the patron saint of Bulgaria. The saint is also regarded as a miracle worker in Hungary, and his relic also proved his supernatural power in the Basilica of Esztergom III. During the reign of our King Bela. His memory is preserved today by the bilingual plaque in the subchurch, before which this year, as every year, we pay tribute to the pilgrimage, prayer, and the flowers of commemoration. In 2016, the National Assembly of Bulgaria and the Hungarian Parliament unanimously declared 19 October a day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. The friendship between the two countries has been for centuries, despite the fact that their borders do not meet, so they cannot be neighbouring to each other. [[14.20]] After the difficult period caused by the pandemic and the cancelled events, we can finally remember and celebrate together on this great day, for the sixth time. It is a special pleasure for the Bulgarians in Hungary to officially hand over on 19 October the Bulgarian Cultural House in Budapest, which was renewed and enlarged with the support of the Hungarian and Bulgarian governments for some HUF 400 million, was built in 1956 by our grandparents, the Bulgarian gardeners who lived here, from their own strength and donations. We built in difficult, challenging times then and now, thus expressing our solidarity and our loyalty to Hungary. It has been proven that Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship is worth a special holiday, as the Bulgarian nationality in Hungary can play a bridge role in the cooperation of the two countries in almost all areas; a bridge with which the two states and the Hungarian Bulgarians can be closely linked. An outstanding example of this is that the Hungarian government provided HUF 2.6 billion in support of the construction of the new Bulgarian Education and Culture Centre, which was supported by the government of Bulgaria with an additional EUR 1 million. I would like to inform the Parliament and the representatives of Bulgaria that the plans of the new Bulgarian centre have been completed, and the construction works are expected to start soon with an official foundation, together with the representation of the Bulgarian nationality and the governments of the two countries. The Bulgarian nationality in Hungary, which is an active part of the Hungarian nation, has always lived along the cloudless relationship and friendship of the two countries, and will continue to do so in the future, which I can promise you. Our identity, our traditions and our faith are pillars of our lives, without which it would be difficult to live the present and establish the future. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to speak before the National Assembly on the occasion of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Allow me to express my thanks to the Government of Hungary, the National Assembly, to ensure the development and preservation of the Hungarian Bulgarian community's traditional aspirations by providing national resources and individual support. I also thank the Government of Bulgaria for its financial support to the Bulgarian nationality in Hungary. Finally, allow me to quote the words of Mr Lazar Ivanov, founder of the Association of Hungarian Bulgarians in 1914, which, to this day, are compasses of Bulgarian nationality in Hungary, how to stay who we are:.The future can be built not only with a hoe, but with an open eye and faith in God. , Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-18-30	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Varga Simeon. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés, who responds on behalf of the government.
u2021-10-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, Indeed, the decision taken in 2016 relates both to our historical roots, our past and our aspirations, but also to the present; to the present, this is also a day of friendship, through nationalities, in order to preserve and strengthen, and within the present, to the common aspirations and interests of the two countries. In terms of history, Christianity, as a force of preservation beyond faith, was certainly important in the lives of both nations, for either language, culture, or nation itself, or the strengthening of communities were provided and given by Christianity. It is also this holiday day, October 19th, which is linked to a Christian anniversary, the Holiday of St. John the Miraclemaker or Slav, by the name of St. Iván Bolgaro. He is the patron saint of Bulgaria and III. Our King Béla brought the relic back to Hungary, which had come to Hungary in a violent way, but he also showed the reconciliation that he had returned to Bulgaria at that time. It is a common historical past, like Ottoman oppression and destruction, 200 to 250 years with us, in the case of the Bulgarian people nearly half a millennium, and I must say that both nations survived, the miracle is that both nations are here, that is a miracle. But unfortunately, a terrible century of our history, perhaps the most inhuman century, is XX. The events of the century, whether the devastation of the First and Second World Wars, the inhumane years, the consequences of the so-called peace dictators or peace agreements resulting therefrom, and I add that the terror of the then terrible communism struck both countries, both nations. It is therefore possible to say, in fact, about living together from history and many of the common threads, that we understand each other and understand each other in the present. Therefore, it is very important for us, you Bulgarians in Hungary, to remain, to be strengthened, to remain here among us, and it is no accident that the Government of Hungary has supported the renewal of either the local government or the maintenance of the kindergarten, the renewal of the church, or the renewal of the Bulgarian Cultural House, as it has supported the renewal of many, many memorial sites in recent years, or we have also helped to maintain the traditional Bulgarian gardening efforts together. But the same is what you mentioned, and this is perhaps the most important, the joint implementation of the new Bulgarian Education and Culture Centre, which will certainly show the strength of this community, even if it is not so great in number, but strong in strength, and thank you for that. In addition, our understanding of each other also applies to the fact that we want to preserve both nations as Bulgarians and Hungarians, we want to remain in the Balkans and here in Central Europe, that is absolutely natural, and we are fighting the efforts to change this. We want to protect our borders, it's very clear, just as we suffered the Ottoman occupation at the time, we do not want to live a similar Muslim occupation. That is why we want to protect our borders, and Bulgaria has done so. Here, I would also like to thank the former Deputy Prime Minister, Valery Simeonov, who was the first to take the initiative in this region in order to build a fence and protect our countries. Thank you very much for this effort, and not only for the effort, but also for the action that you have done for Bulgaria and for the whole West. And thank you very much for your initiative on the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship in 2016 in the Bulgarian Parliament. However, in addition to defending our borders, we are also working together against ideologies, especially in order to protect our children, which are now being imposed on us from Western Europe, which will be harmful, useless, short-term, but will also have a destructive impact on us. Thank you very much for your speech, Mr Speaker, and thank you for the perseverance of the entire Bulgarian community, which, on the one hand, kept the Bulgarians in nationality, and on the other, became faithful citizens of the Hungarian nation. God bless you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-18-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-10-18-33	Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Anett Bősz, DK; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Ander, Balázs, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP; István Jakab, Fidesz. Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik. [[14.30]]
u2021-10-18-34	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2021-10-18-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 204. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that this mandate of Dr. Edit Juhász, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Government Office, was terminated with effect from 3 October 2021. Budapest, 1 October 2021 Sincerely: János Áder
u2021-10-18-36	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 14 October 2021 12.Bpk.762/2021/5. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. The Government has initiated, Honourable Parliament, that Parliament will discuss in an exceptional procedure the 2013 CXXXV on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. T/17313. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure and the consolidated debate will take place as item 1 of the agenda on 19 October 2021 and the final vote will take place on 19 October 2021. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I ask you, do you accept T/17313. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 111 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstention. In accordance with our accepted decision... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Congressman Márius Révész' voting machine didn't work. You voted yes, didn't you, Congressman? (To be indicated:) He voted yes, we added. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, we have the opportunity to present the amendments today at 5:36 p.m. Then we will now decide on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at no earlier than 12:00 on Tuesday 19 October 2021. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/17283 on measures to modernise individual procedures and further strengthen the security of citizens. The general debate on bill No 1 shall take place on Wednesday 20 October 2021 as the last item on the agenda until the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows that H/17309 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The decision to make a proposal for a decision. [[Representatives of Jobbik, DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue leave the meeting room.]] I would like to inform you that the ad hoc committee which appointed the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which had been set up by the National Assembly, has not been able to successfully designate, so the committee's mandate is 36/2019. was terminated on the basis of point 10 of the parliamentary decision. The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 124. In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to set up a new nominating committee and the decision-making proposal has been submitted by the Vice-President of Parliament, acting as Speaker of Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal for a new nominating committee have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the course of the decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament decides on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17309. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 110 votes to 7, without abstention. I would ask the group leaders to make their personal proposals for officials and members of the ad hoc committee, if possible, by 19:00 today at the latest. The decision on the personal proposal will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:40 p.m., we're moving to interpellation negotiations. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 14.40 14.42]] (President: Mr Sándor Lezszak) Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2021-10-18-37	I respectfully ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber for those who do not have an obligation to sit in. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr.Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. It's an address. The Minister for Innovation and Technology, László Palkovics, who is responsible for the subject, commissioned the Prime Minister for the interpellation, has appointed Mr Tamás Schanda as Secretary of State to answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-38	Mr President, Dear House, Orbán, a number of years ago, I recall that at a conference in Saudi Arabia, investors tried to attract the attention of working capital and to direct it towards Hungary by saying that he believes that the labour code is sufficiently flexible in Hungary and that wages are quite low once again. This attitude marks not only Viktor Orbán and his economic team, but I think that, by strengthening the image of Hungary by statistics, we better people do not want to compete with low wages, and we do not want to call any investor on this basis. The government seems very combative in the internal political space, or when it comes to dealing with its political opponents, but we see that the German car companies seem to be bowing to their will at any time. It seems that the government has chosen the interests of multi-company companies to defend the interests of Hungarian workers, as it is silent and essentially silent, when it has been revealed in recent days that under your slave law, Hungarian workers can be beaten from 80 to 800 thousand forints. I believe that such a solution would be unacceptable in any advanced market economy. We also see that two companies have already deducted, a metal industry and a plastic company have already deducted some of their employees' wages, and although we are very pleased that other companies have temporarily danced back, it is also positive that they have made an investigation into the prospect of communication and some kind of communication, but this negative climate was created by your slave law. We do not expect the wolf to become a vegetarian, we need multi-enterprises, banks, but we do not expect a multi-company to try to collect this amount in another form on its employees, and we already see attempts in this direction. We also see that, if two companies have withdrawn, several companies will be deducted, and now there are Hungarian employees who have 350 unworkable hours, not because they have chosen this path, but because the stoppage caused by the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic has made it impossible for them to continue working at their workplace. This force majeure is not due to the behavior of the worker, it is not due to him. There are those on whom you would like to pay the price of your two-month working time, to collect the employer who supported your employees in your home country as a result of the failure of the coronal virus. I do not expect the support of the workers from the multinational companies, but the slow approximation of the wage level to the European average; I would expect the Government of Hungary to make up for 80 percent of the wages lost in every case to finally face the multinationals on the Hungarian workers' side once in a while. However, my main question to Mr.Secretary of State is that he agrees with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who, according to him, wants to compete on the basis of the code of flexible work and according to him, very low wages, and on this basis he wants to attract capital for Hungary.
u2021-10-18-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-10-18-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is surprising that you are speaking about the protection of workers, honourable Member, you, who have joined forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány for his selfish and petty political aspects, under whose governance unemployment has grown to record levels in Hungary and there has been a record low employment. And you want to talk about it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , whose party president yells at Hungarian people working in the open street. Quite amazing, Your Honour. But of course, we are not surprised at this, because when during the coronal virus epidemic, Hungarian workers, Hungarian families, Hungarian people really needed you to try to give them a helping hand, the Hungarian economy, in order to keep jobs in Hungary, you were not willing to move your finger here in Parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Uh-oh!]] quite simply you and the entire left, like you, said no to all the subsidies, all the help the Hungarian government has provided to the Hungarian working people. So, if it were up to you, there would have been no wage support [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It wouldn't have been a credit moratorium, honourable Member. Allow me to remind you that there was a real need for more flexible employment because of the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and this has its results, since we have managed to prevent large-scale redundancies, unlike the period when your friends of principle, the crisis on the left, where Hungarian people working continuously and greatly were destroyed. So there were no mass redundancies in Hungary last year or this year against the failed crisis management in 2008, and we can now say that more than 4.7 million people are now working in Hungary, which is, by the way, more than the level before the epidemic. Honourable Congressman, You know perfectly well that the national civil government is on the side of the workers, and employers must act in accordance with the legal provisions in all cases and comply with the Hungarian laws. That's what we expect of them, and we'll keep it. Honourable Congressman, If you don't want to pursue a political hack campaign, not only in part, but in full, you acknowledge it in your interpellation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We have made it very clear in the past few days that the procedures mentioned in the press and referred to by you are not related to the amendment of the Labour Code at the end of 2018, no matter how much you try to create this false appearance. I suggest you read that law properly. Although, when you were supposed to vote on that, you were also part of the first big show on the left. Honourable Congressman, The cases referred to by you relate to an individual employer's procedure and are based on misinterpretation of the law and misinterpretation of the rules on working time. This was also confirmed by the social partners when we spoke to them. Employees' representatives agree with us on this issue, and they also said that there are problems not in legislation, but in interpretation of the law. [[14.50]] That's why we published a prospectus. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we're conducting a special official investigation into these companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-10-18-42	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State's reply didn't give him an opinion, because he threw up on me every amazing tops of the lie factory in Rogan. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's right!]] In addition, he did this completely unprepared. [[Tamás János Schanda: Facts...]] This behavior is quite unacceptable for a well-prepared secretary of state. If you had looked into the question, you'd see that I demanded the credit moratorium a week or two earlier than you thought. He wouldn't have said something so insufferable, I wouldn't even consider what kind of thing [[Tamás János Schanda: You didn't vote for...]] If you had read at least basically the material from which you could prepare for such an answer, you wouldn't have done so! The fact is that you have created tax haven states for multinational companies, and Hungarian workers have been rewarded with 18,000 evictions, and you have allowed enforcement bans to be enforced even in the worst epidemic months. It is therefore time, Mr State Secretary, that from the vassals of multinationals they finally become at least a little, an ant-boots of national emotion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I wish you every success on this journey.
u2021-10-18-43	Thank you very much. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. Therefore, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Dezső, representative of the MSZP, notary, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. The ability or the will is lacking to send an application to enforce the penalty claim against the Russian metro manufacturer? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Justice, Judit Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, commissioned the Minister of State, Pál Völner, to reply. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Szijjártó personally and actively shaped the negotiations and government decisions that resulted in the decision of the then Fidesz city leadership not to buy new trains on the Budapest M3 metro line, but to renovate the old Russian subway cars. The result of the decision is well-known: they acquired newly built metro cars that were renovated at a price comparable to new modern fittings, actually built at technological standards decades ago. In addition, they were delivered late and with a number of technical errors. After the negotiations for defective performance have come to a dead end, BKV Zrt. filed a lawsuit against the Russian producer to enforce the contractual penalty. On the basis of international legal aid agreements, it is for the Ministry of Justice to deliver the application to the Russian company through the competent Russian Ministry. This procedure is obviously part of the daily official routine. Nevertheless, the Russian Ministry simply did not receive the document sent by its Hungarian partner. Therefore, in August, the Ministry of Justice contacted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to send the application to the Russian Ministry of Justice by means of a consul. BKV Zrt. has not been informed of the state of service since then, even though it is now mid-October. You are particularly proud of your good partnership with Russia. The question is how, in the midst of such excellent relations, even the Hungarian government apparatus is unable to enforce traditional legal aid agreements. Mr. Secretary. Is it the ability or the will to get the BKV's application to the finish line?
u2021-10-18-45	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2021-10-18-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Metropolitan Court is the Budapest Transport Ltd. before it. To the plaintiff, Metrowagonmash Inc. defendant against 37J40146/2019. On 8 July 2021, he contacted the Ministry of Justice to arrange for the service of the documents of the proceedings to the defendant. The Ministry of Justice is the XXXVI of 2005 in force between Hungary and the Russian Federation. On the basis of the Convention of 15 November 1965 on the service of judicial and non-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters abroad, published by law, the documents to be served were forwarded to the Russian Central Authority of the Hague Convention, the Russian Ministry of Justice, by request of legal assistance dated 17 June 2021. In accordance with the practice, it was sent by post. On 24 August 2021, the shipment was returned to the Ministry of Justice with the letter that the recipient, the Russian Ministry of Justice, had not sought the document. In view of this, in order to ensure that the request for assistance and the documents to be served are forwarded to the Russian Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice contacted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs by letter dated 27 August 2021 to arrange for the request for assistance and the transmission of the documents by consular means to the Russian Ministry of Justice, by application of Article 9 of the Hague Convention. On this basis, on 24 September 2021 our Embassy in Moscow provided the Russian Ministry of Justice with a request for legal assistance and documents to be served. The latter informed our embassy on 8 October 2021 that the request for legal assistance is being processed in the Ministry and that it will be forwarded to the competent Russian court shortly. Our embassy has indicated that it will continue to ask about the state of play in the Russian judicial wallet regarding the execution of the legal aid application. The Ministry of Justice shall also regularly inform the Metropolitan Tribunal, which shall act. It is essential that the service of documents is carried out by the Russian court under the Russian party's law governing the service of documents. We are not in a position to influence the proceedings of the Russian court, and we have exhausted the possibilities of the Hague Convention. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask Congressman Dezső, a notary, to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-10-18-48	Mr. Secretary. I asked you if you lack the ability or the will to deal with this case. In my opinion, it has become apparent from his response that both the ability and the will are lacking. We could very well see that when it came to the conclusion of this treaty, the Minister of Foreign Affairs acted personally in this matter, looking for his Russian colleague. Obviously, this is about representing Hungarian interests for you. I perceive that you have not acted with sufficient force, inefficiently, to represent this interest in the past period. This is not good because I think that you can easily be burned by the fact that in an international conflict you do not represent the interests of Hungary. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should act personally on this issue, so that Hungarian interests can prevail. Unfortunately, I cannot accept your answer.
u2021-10-18-49	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will the Érdeks return the channel money? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. [[15.00]]
u2021-10-18-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Érd sewer company was founded in 2008 for the full sewerage of Érd and its region. The project with a budget of 34 billion has been implemented with EU funding. The grant agreement was signed at the time of the Bajnai Government, but the investment was completed already under the Fidesz Government. In order to ensure this, the municipality led by the mayor of András Mészáros Fideszes, who failed two years ago, took 250 thousand forints from each of the 17 thousand Erdish households participating in the programme. When the programme was completed, this amount would have come back almost entirely, but the families of Érd could not wait for the amounts paid. The previous management decided, towards the end of the investment, that although it could do so by receiving the support in the form of post-financing, it would not return 91 percent of the interest contributions of 250,000, instead it spent a large part of the remaining HUF 6 billion on road construction. Although there is no doubt about the justification of this so-called programme B, I do not know of another county-righted city, where three quarters of the roads would be bare, but this so-called plan B was implemented without consulting the public. In addition, this has become obsolete, since two weeks before the elections in 2018, Minister Lajos Kósa and his parliamentary representative, András Aradszki, promised a solid road cover for all the roads of Érd and its region within five years. A similar situation arose at Christmas Day in Heves County, except that there were some brave civil lawsuits brought against the sewer company, which he finally won, and he got his consent back. In its judgment, the court held that it was contrary to the provisions of the Water Management Act, i.e. it was illegal to spend the money collected from the public on road construction, which could only have been used by the company for sewerage. Two years ago, civilians in Érden, Diósdon and Tárnok filed charges for irregular uses, and investigations have continued with interrogations. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In addition, the subsequent audit revealed an irregularity in the procurement procedure for the project. The Fidesz municipality kept it a secret, but it paid HUF 1.5 billion. The fact was revealed by a journalist who did a thorough job. It also turned out that the network association, which was set up alongside the sewer company in Érd, was involved in the direct financing of the B-programme, so that they were legally trying to clean up this sham. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, who will then compensate the 17,000 orchards and thousands of walnuts, who rightly claim at least 90 percent of the 250 thousand forints they have paid. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-18-51	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, municipalities operate for the purpose of managing local public affairs and exercising public authority, which are free to decide how to control the implementation of an investment and what measures are being taken. You also know, I believe, that the Ministry of Interior is not entitled, in the absence of legal authorisation, to control the investments made by local authorities on the basis of their own decisions. It also does not have the competence to supervise the legality of the water utility company. After the settlement procedure has been completed, the municipality is obliged to repay it. The question arises as to the political intentions of the honourable Member for the plenary session of the Parliament. As far as I know, the channel program in Érd took place between 2008 and 2017. The EU programme part took place between 2008 and 2014, and between 2015 and 17 the original programme was not feasible and related investments were reported to have been made. The latter were part of an own-initiative programme, which could not be counted in the EU tender, which was essential for the operation of the system and for the treatment of the sewage treatment of the buildings in the rough. EU and State aid did not fully cover the costs of the programme, which is why, according to the news, there was a need for self-financing. When the program was closed, the Érd Channel Company made a settlement and started the settlement on May 10, 2018, the unused funds were allocated back to the members of the company. The contested amounts were used by the municipality to improve and build local roads. During the period in question, the Member's husband was the deputy mayor and municipal representative of Érd, and today she is the mayor of Érd, and she did not object to the decisions of the channel investment during the period incarnated. Therefore, I suggest that you contact the current mayor of Érd with your questions, which you have now addressed to me, who promised to pay back the channel money in the 2019 municipal campaign to the inhabitants of the city. I would also like to inform you that, under the current legislation, if the members of the sewer association demand money back, they will have to turn to the money-using municipality, and their claims can also be enforced through civil litigation. I ask the honourable Member, because I have answered all her questions to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-53	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your exhaustive response, which I cannot accept because the Ministry of Interior is currently responsible for municipalities and water. I mentioned to you that the violation of the Water Management Act has already been declared by another similar case, and there is an investigation at the moment. So what you have raised in your reply is that justice can be served in civil proceedings, I believe that justice will also be served by the courts. However, this is not enough. I think that it is not the first and last time that the issue of channel money comes back to Parliament because, by the way, irregularities have been identified in relation to the financial affairs of the Fidesz city administration in connection with the use of EU funds. For example, you did not answer this question. I think that it is entirely the former Fidesz city administration, where there were two Fidesz Vice Mayors, Károly Simó and István Bács. One of them is being investigated personally. Unfortunately, I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2021-10-18-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will the wages of law enforcement workers be increased to HUF 60,000? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2021-10-18-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For the next year's budget, I have submitted for many times, as I do every year, my proposal to increase the salary base to HUF 60,000 in uniform for law enforcement, defence and public service workers. We are talking about a problem that you are well aware of, but you are not dealing with, which is extremely serious irresponsible. It is also important to raise the salary base in a uniform way because the aim is not to siphon the stock from one stock to the other, but to ensure that every security organisation in Hungary has a stable, well-trained and predictable stock to work for the safety of people. We are talking about the livelihood and future of tens of thousands of people, without them we cannot build a well-functioning Hungary. For the time being, it seems to me that it is more important for you to organise hundreds of billions of forints of people in private fidesz foundations to fill all types of NER companies with public money. It doesn't seem to you that the first hundred problems are likely to result in another wave of disarmament. If this continues, for example, there will be no police force on the street to ensure the safety of the people, no firefighter to put out the fire, and no law enforcement worker to check the prisoners in prisons. So the situation is extremely serious and urgent, and you are also aware of that, but you are not using the right means to solve this problem. Increasing the salary base remains the only predictable solution for the stock. Currently, the average salary of a newly-equipped police officer is around the guaranteed minimum wage, and he receives 146 thousand forints from a newly-equipped police officer. How is that, Mr. Secretary? How can these people be expected to be out on the street all day long and guarantee people's safety? By the way, you can put your hands together that there are dedicated people who still pursue this profession, despite the extremely difficult circumstances, despite the fact that you do not provide them with predictability, but are doing so under extreme strain. [[15.10]] So this situation cannot be maintained, with a half-charged staff at extreme risk, it can also cause health problems in the future, and more and more people are leaving the herd. And if, by the way, the kind of propaganda you're doing, how successful the government is in this area, it would be true, not only 2% of the stock would say that they are satisfied with their working conditions. If they do not act urgently, then another wave of disarmament is expected. I have resubmitted the bill that says law enforcement, defence and public service workers [[The president's ringing the bell.]] your salary, the salary base, must be increased to HUF 60,000. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-18-57	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Well, it's a strange feeling to listen to your concerns and prophecies about decommissioning, underpaid, and bad salaries. I wonder why, when the left was on the government, between 2002 and 10, they did not do more to estimate the stock, not only that they didn't, but at that time 42 506 professionals left the organisation with early retirement, the professional staff was involved in this, and 24 227 of them were retired and early pensioners in the home affairs sector. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the contrary, in Hungary today, we can say that there is order and public security, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe today, and I would like to thank all members of the professional staff for their often trying service. It is a priority for the government to show this respect in financial terms, and we guarantee it year after year in the budget, which you do not regularly vote for, the necessary resources. Let us look at what we have done for the professional stock in recent years. Since 2010, wages have doubled. In 2015, we launched the law enforcement career programme, with an average salary improvement of 50 per cent of professional staff. Since 2016, the income of law enforcement workers has been steadily increasing. In 2016, we introduced performance benefits, with the government providing an additional HUF 12 billion per year for professionals. In 2017, housing subsidies were extended to HUF 2.8 billion a year. As of 1 January 2017, we have introduced the system of law enforcement health damage care, the essence of which is that professional persons covered by the service law receive regular salaries five years before the retirement age, so those who are unable to carry out the task will use this service five years before the old-age pension. In December 2019, professional stock received a lump sum of HUF 500 000 gross, with a 10% increase compared to the beginning of the year. From 1 January 2020, we will grant a 10-percent income supplement to the professional staff, which will be accounted for together with the October salary, for the second part of the performance allowance I am talking about 2021, for which HUF 7.2 billion is available. According to the Prime Minister's announcement, if the growth of the economy exceeds 5.5 percent this year, the government will provide a six-month police service allowance for professional staff, the so-called arms money, every three years at the beginning of next year. Those directly involved in the control of the pandemic shall be entitled to 10 working days' additional leave. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you can see, the government is committed to honoring law enforcement personnel, so it is constantly taking measures, and it is no coincidence that there are significantly more police candidates than before. And on the other hand, the fact that I said that during your administration, not only did they leave the field, but there was no substantial increase in salary. One more factor, let me draw attention to a specific fact. Our police officers protect our southern borders, defend Hungary's borders, and, at the same time, we achieve excellent results in Homeland Security, and every year the number of crimes that have become known decreases. I trust that this trend will continue, and we will be able to appreciate even more the service of professional staff in the future. Thank you very much. We are confident that you can accept [[The president's ringing the bell.]] My answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-59	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2021-10-18-60	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer because you did not answer my question: do you support my proposal that the salary base for law enforcement workers should be equal to 60,000 forints? By the way, I can see the propaganda, that's what you've been able to tell me. You can't lie to the stock, they feel exactly on their skin how the amounts you've said have actually been made, and thank you for not what you said. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was the last time the salary fund was raised to HUF 38 650 in 2008, and since then that is it, so it has not been possible to raise it with a single HUF during your 12-year governance. And in vain, he mentions the money of arms, and by the way, he waits for the money of arms, and at the most, they postpone this kind of wave of disarmament. And I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that it has been promised since the 27th of de-cember 2019, and none of this has been implemented to this day. Clearly, only one change of government can be a solution [[The president's ringing the bell.]] for the stock, so that salaries can be improved and a predictable way of life can be given.
u2021-10-18-61	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From his reply to the gullible Member, it is clear that they acted quite comfortably, comically, in a case which would otherwise be very damaging to taxpayers, because when it came to buying these Russian subway cars, there was travel, there was lobbying, there was everything when this Fidesz metro was needed, they could go to the Russians. And why do I say Fidesz Metro? I'm saying this because even István Tarlós didn't want this purchase, he wanted new cars, new subway trains, but Fidesz insisted on these Russian cars in order to develop the Russian thread here. And the question is, is that there is this military luxury machine that you use so many times, there are times when you go to Provence, there are times when you take the Prime Minister and his family to Rome for a conference. [[Dr. Pál Völner is showing the president a document saying this is not in it!]] "Sometimes, the Secretary of State travels around the world with him. Well, in this luxury machine, I don't know why Secretary of State Szijjártó couldn't sit in it when the Russian Minister of Justice first came back to this post office and act. Suddenly, this luxury machine couldn't get off, it looks like when it comes to taxpayers' money...
u2021-10-18-63	Congressman...
u2021-10-18-64	... when it comes to the money of 8 billion forints...
u2021-10-18-65	... please get to the point...
u2021-10-18-66	... when it comes to Budapest...
u2021-10-18-67	Come on, let's go!
u2021-10-18-68	...then suddenly this luxury machine couldn't get off, even though it was already [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] There was a problem in 2017 too...
u2021-10-18-69	Congressman, before I count your time, I would like to warn you to move on to the subject of interpellation. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-70	So already in 2017 there was a problem with these subway cars, 11 times the supplier contract was delayed, the then BKV CEO also warned the Russian party that the state of transport and delivered trains would improve radically, because they brought a lot of scraps, and even the then CEO of BKV said that BKV would make use of its penalty claim and would enforce it. So it's not a new problem that suddenly found on the table by the government. The new city administration has also set up a committee of inquiry which has revealed 18 series of faults in the fittings, the use of unsuitable materials, and an outdated suspension system. [[Dr. Pál Völner raises a document: It is not in it!]] You can wave the paper, Mr. Secretary. Fly the taxpayers' money, float it to Russia, and ask yourself why you were cut off by these subway cars. [[15.20]] So the question, Mr. Secretary of State, is with respect what steps the government is taking, given that you have such a good relationship with Putin and Russia, in order for taxpayers to get these eight billion forints back. How do you plan to persuade the Russian party to pay this compensation? Would you be so kind as to answer that? Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-71	Thank you. Mr. Congressman, Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, I would like to inform you that the interpellation is a tied form of opposition and that there is no derogation from the subject given therein. That, please, is something you should acknowledge, and please consider this in the answer. Thank you. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in three years, it might be possible to note the formal requirements of the interpellation that I am obliged to answer practically the questions that he has written, so that everything else he is performing should be performed in a different genre, because no answer is expected. What is the point of the whole story, if you had listened to Mr. Reliable's interpellation, you could have noted that the action could be enforced by the BKV, and they filed the application. As I mentioned then, on 8 June 2021, so four months ago, the Ministry of Justice was contacted by the Metropolitan Tribunal, and then eight days later, on 17 June, on the basis of the Hague Convention, we forwarded the application to the Russian Ministry of Justice. So here we are talking about stalling and stuff, and in light of that, it's a bit of a strong statement. On 24 August, so two months later, the mail came back with a postcard saying that they had not sought this document, so I say again on 24 August, and then on 27 August, three days later, we turned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to deliver this shipment to the Russian Ministry of Justice by means of consular service. This also took place on 24 September and was delivered with an oral list. It may have been necessary to write down the dates to show that practically everything that could be done was within the terms of office. On 8 October, the Embassy received information that the shipment was being processed and that it would be forwarded to the Russian court. I also said that in the response to the interpellation that the embassy will continue to be interested in the judicial wallet and urge this matter to be dealt with. So in a strictly technical matter, I simply didn't understand it, and I still don't understand how they get a correct answer, and they anticipate that this is unacceptable to them, and they don't understand the delay, even though the dates clearly indicate that today is October 18th, and on October 8th, the last information I provided was the last one. So, once you've had your strength, I ask you to accept the information. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-73	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-74	Thank you for the floor. It is difficult to swallow the fact that the Secretary of State refers to formal requirements here in connection with the interpellation, when we have not received a meaningful response to one of our interpellations in three years. So if we are talking about formal requirements, then you have something to be ashamed of! Returning to the question: the question was how do you plan to persuade the Russian party to get these eight billion forints back? The answer shows that you've been writing for months, taking months of legal action, which is your duty, by the way, but when Péter Szijjártó was last out in Moscow, it somehow didn't come up with the eight billion forints that are important to taxpayers. That wasn't important. But the Russian loan from which you finance your own survival was important, Mr. Szijjárto discussed it with the Russians. Mr. Secretary. Neither can those who ride the subway car who rot and fall apart accept this answer. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] not all Hungarian citizens who have paid their taxes [[The president's ringing again.]] They can't accept it, so I can't accept it.
u2021-10-18-75	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the Hungarian Government protect the results of the reduction of the rent? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The government not only talks about the protection of climate and nature, but also does so, as the adoption of the climate and nature conservation action plan and its implementation, as our aim is to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. However, this is only possible if the government also represents the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Bence of Turdai: It's time!]] Each country should play its part in joint efforts taking into account the extent of the damage it causes. The price of climate change should not be paid by the Hungarian people, but by the largest polluting businesses and countries, the largest climate disrupters. In recent months, energy prices have reached historical peaks in the EU and prices for natural gas and electricity on the world market have increased several times. This has led to a significant increase in fees in a number of EU Member States, as energy suppliers immediately shifted these burdens to the general public. However, the Hungarian government protects the Hungarian people, because this government is the government of the reduction of rent. In Europe, the Hungarian population still pays the cheapest gas price and the second cheapest electricity price, unlike the pre-2010 Gyurcsány period, when gas prices were tripled and the electricity doubled. The Hungarian government, on the other hand, reduced the price of gas, electricity and district heating by 25 percent in 2013 and 14. However, the reduction was not enough once, the low prices still need to be protected, including from an attempt in Brussels. Brussels' so-called green agreement seeks to impose new taxes on us on the basis of climate change, which would grossly raise the rent of Hungarian families. For us, this is unacceptable and we cannot allow Hungarian people to be blamed for the increased prices of the Brussels climate protection proposals and energy markets. If these plans in Brussels were to go through, electricity prices, heating costs and district heating charges would increase and fuel prices would increase, so the overhead will increase. Moreover, this will increase the cost of construction and increase the burden of Hungarian farmers. These plans are disrupting the results of the reduction to date and are therefore unacceptable to Hungary. On behalf of me and the Fidesz-KDNP Group, I can say that we will work to ensure that this does not happen. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the Hungarian Government protects the results of the reduction of the rent. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State, Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We should have no doubt: if it were up to the left or Brussels, Hungarian utilities would be skyrocketed again. This is what is happening in Europe, energy prices are rising sharply, and service providers in Europe are charging higher prices to families; we can say that there has been a crisis in Europe. In other countries, the retail prices of natural gas and electricity follow market price changes and have increased by at least one and a half to two times over the past period. Brussels does not take responsibility for its failed energy policy, in fact it does nothing against high energy prices, but it does not take responsibility for the fact that, according to the Brussels proposal, the climate protection package has a positive impact on energy prices. It leaves the Member States alone that most of its proposals, which it puts on the table, fall within the competence of national governments and which it does not allow any common European Union resources to implement. Anna Donáth, just to bring her here, a Member of the European Parliament on the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány said that she admitted that the cheap energy was over and that the green transition would not be painless. [[15.30]] This is what left-wing MEPs from Brussels are sending to the Hungarian people. It is also clear from this sentence, but it is also clear from all their other sentences that if the Gyurcsánys were once again in power in Hungary, they would increase the energy prices again to multiples, increasing the costs of the Hungarian families. The proposals of the Gyurcsány coalition are actually about increasing energy prices when they demand that the government introduce market prices for gas and electricity services. And Mrs Gyurcsány also wishes to gain good points in Brussels, when, in addition to the increase in the so-called green agreement, she would also accept that new taxes should be levied on Hungarian families on the basis of climate change. I'm gonna say this slowly so everyone understands that there won't be a gas price increase. It's not gonna hurt, it's not gonna hurt, it's not gonna hurt. We remember these sentences on the left, don't we, these sentences on the left? And there was a gas price increase, and there was an increase in electricity prices, and it did hurt the Hungarian people, because the left favored international service providers rather than Hungarian people. Between 2002-2010, left-wing governments raised the rent 15 times in total and all their decisions were in favour of the service providers. However, we, the national civilian government, will continue to defend the results of the reduction of the overhead, as we believe that a successful energy policy can be pursued if we do not burden the population with the cost of ever-changing energy prices. This government is the government of the reduction of electricity, and we stand by the financial burden that climate destroyers have to bear in order to achieve the climate targets, and not the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-79	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman to accept the answer to the interpellation.
u2021-10-18-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept the answer. I would add that, indeed, one of the biggest problems is that if the government had chosen the direction proposed by the left in recent years rather than the reduction of the rent, today we would have linked the prices of electricity, gas and district heating to world market prices, which would have meant that Hungarian families today would have increased their overhead to multiples. The fundamental problem with the European Union's plan is that it is a complex, complex mechanism through which companies are to bear these burdens, which, obviously, companies would continue to impose on families as they have so far. There is a certain calculation of this, according to which, on an annual basis, this would increase the household's rent by HUF 400 000. I understand that the green Marxist organization left, and especially the Dialogue, can make all sorts of suggestions without any responsibility, and criticize the government, but all of this, thank God, without social responsibility, remains a story for now. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Prescribe Brussels, how should Hungarians raise their children? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2021-10-18-82	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, An unprecedented and biased attack has been launched on our country because of the amendment of the Child Protection Act adopted this spring. The Hungarian left and their allies in Brussels and the LGBTQ propaganda machine launched a coordinated flood of lies against Hungary. Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that the parent has the exclusive right to provide their children with religious, philosophical and pedagogical education and education in accordance with their convictions. These principles are also clearly included in the amendment of the law that we have adopted. As a reminder of the adoption of the package of laws, the ban on pedophile crimes, the punishment for pedophile crimes has become stricter, the employment ban on pedophile offenders has been extended. The law prohibits child sexual propaganda in preschools, schools and media accessible to children. Brussels, on the other hand, wants us to allow LGBTQ propagandists into kindergarten and school, the European Commission believes that these institutions have rights that precede parental rights, although this is a child protection issue. Our country's commitment to European Community law, the Hungarian Constitution and the protection of children in Hungary remains unchanged. We guarantee the rights of religious, ethnic, sexual and any other minorities. The Hungarian Fundamental Law strictly prohibits, and our laws severely punish exclusion and discrimination in relation to minorities. The Hungarian government has nothing to do with how someone lives as an adult, if they comply with the law, but child protection is a state obligation, if the future of our children is at stake, we cannot afford it. Dear Secretary of State, On 15 July 2021, the European Commission sent a formal request to the Government of Hungary to initiate infringement proceedings against our country. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State where the infringement procedure is, what the government is doing to ensure that only the parent can continue to decide on the education of his own child in Hungary, and no one can force him to suffer his child to receive sexual education without his consent. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-83	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the gender-based attacks launched by Brussels against Hungary are increasing; let us only consider the invaluable retention of the payment of EU funds and the debate on the Child Protection Act, or the visit of the LIBE Committee in Hungary. These consciously organized, top-down actions are supported by the domestic Balliberal opposition, hoping to place political pressure on the government. The government represents the interests of the nation, even if they threaten us, even if we are being blackmailed by the wrongful payment of financial resources, we will not back down. The outcome of the national consultation speaks for itself. 97 percent of respondents rejected sexual propaganda. For more than a decade, it is obvious to us that if we are not in common with Brussels on certain issues, they will launch a political attack on our country by means of infringement procedures, on the grounds of immediately said reasons. I would like to inform you that, under the infringement procedure, on 15 September, we responded to the Commission's formal request in the context of the Child Protection Act. Given the particular nature of the procedure, the Commission may send a reasoned opinion to our country this year. The next response is likely to take two months. In the light of the Hungarian response to the reasoned opinion, the Commission may decide to refer the procedure to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I often get the feeling that many people criticize the Child Protection Act without taking a moment of their life to read it, interpret it. So what exactly is the adopted child protection package about? Pedophile crimes have been hindered from several directions, the punishment for paedophile crimes has become stricter, and in this context the statute of limitations and conditional release rules have also changed and the employment ban for paedophile offenders has been extended. We continue to believe that it is appropriate for underage children to be protected from content in the media that is not appropriate for their age, and for children to be given lectures only by persons or organisations with adequate qualifications. Our country remains consistent with the view that neither the Brussels Commission nor any other European body can dictate how Hungarian parents should raise their children in Hungary. [[15.40]] The bad example is in front of our eyes. More and more often in the West, they get close to unsuspecting children, what they call sensitivity, which I would prefer to call persuasive, because they expect not only acceptance from children, but also standing up for them. However, I would like to stress that the fate of the Child Protection Act is not decided by Brussels, but by the Hungarian people, which is precisely why the referendum initiated in this case can be an excellent tool to strengthen our country's position. If we are talking about the rule of law, then the referendum is the most democratic solution. Let us not forget that, since 1989, referendums have been an effective tool in cases of racial severity. The result of the referendum is a guide, since it helps to establish the rules on child protection in national competence in the way that people in Hungary think is right. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-85	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2021-10-18-86	Dear Secretary of State, I accept your reply. However, as a regrettable fact, I must conclude that the pressure on our country in Brussels will continue. Despite the fact that in the national consultation, as you said, 97 percent of respondents thought it was right that the law restricts sexual propaganda towards our children. They're not leaving. They do not dive, Brussels is still unable to accept that we do not allow LGBTQ propaganda into our schools and kindergartens. Since 2015, our country has been constantly being attacked and attacked because we have stopped illegal immigration, and now because we have passed the Child Protection Act. I also call on you to withdraw your general obligation procedures there in Brussels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-87	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: Why is a university student less valuable to the Government than a pensioner? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister László Palkovics, who is responsible for innovation and technology, has been appointed by the Minister. At the request of Minister Tamás János Schanda, Minister of State, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-88	Mr President, Before the elections, the government began to distribute a thousand billion forints to people, and the main beneficiaries of this division are, as under almost all governments of the last 30 years, pensioners. Although it would be the duty of the State to provide predictable and equitable care to our elderly countrymen, this is not the purpose of a one-off distribution of money. The pension premium of HUF 200 billion, which is now being paid and which is now being bid on by several of the left-wing opposition parties, actually has only one specific, real purpose: the purchase of votes. Retirementes are many, active in elections and easier to influence, so they always find resources to bribe them. Not to college students whose votes are not valuable enough to seem to compete for them. However, if you take the trouble, you can see that 100,000 young Hungarians have disappeared from Hungarian higher education in the last ten years. Instead of increasing the amount of money and subsidies per person, the opposite was achieved, the housing, study and life prospects of today's Hungarian university students are incomparably worse than they were ten years ago. Some data to support this: the number of students receiving study grants decreased, and the proportion of those entitled to regular social assistance decreased. Many students don't have dorm seats, while rent prices in the countryside have increased by one and a half times, in Budapest more than double. For a teacher's assistant starting a course Dear fellow Members, it is equivalent to HUF 150 000 net. That's half the amount a fast-food employee, restaurant server, makes. It is a shame, fellow Members, that the government that calls itself national values so little knowledge, diligence, commitment and service to the country. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when, on the one hand, the Government is finally willing to face the tens of thousands of student poverty that is currently being dealt with in substance by the Civil Response Movement. On the other hand, if you believe that the excellent situation of the Hungarian economy allows you to pay a pension premium above the pension increase, why is this benefit not available to students and teachers? Thirdly, if you are proud to announce that the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent over the past period, why do you not mention that during the same period, the student normative has only increased by half, by about 5 percent? Do you think inflation only affects our elderly compatriots, not young people? Or what other explanation exists that you do not compensate for the impairment of student scholarships and social assistance? In conclusion, why is a university student worth less to the government than a pensioner? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2021-10-18-89	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that I will also try to talk about the issues concerning higher education and youth that you have brought up in your speech, but first of all, allow me to ask you to stop this trenching that you started among the groups of Hungarian society, which you have brought up here in Parliament, honourable Member. Because what you're doing is a terrible policy. You want to confront grandchildren with grandparents, grandparents with grandchildren, and that is a dangerous thing, honourable Member. I suggest you stop using this technique. This is not civil, this is not conservative, honourable Member, digging trenches in society. Nor is it a civil, honourable Member, that you despise our elderly countrymen. You said sentences here in Parliament that would be shameful even to repeat. Of course, I know, honourable Member, that you do not like pensioners, because you voted against the restoration of the 13th month pension here in Parliament, with which, to your grief, I think, honourable Member, you agreed with the left that, during your catastrophic governance, you took a month's pension, as you took a month's wages from teachers, and left the young Hungarians to pay higher education, too. Honourable Congressman, I'm asking you to stop digging this trench, because I'm sure it can't be the civilian response you talk about regularly here in Parliament and elsewhere. Honourable Congressman, Let me also indicate in my reply that what was taken by Ferenc Gyurcsány, despite your vote, will be returned by the national civil government to the Hungarian families, so there will be a 13th month pension. However, the government is constantly expanding the scope of support and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, create a home, learn a language and find their place. We provide a personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 from January. This will affect one million young people, whose wages may increase by up to HUF 40,000 per month. That's a lot more of their salary. Our goal is to make Hungarian young people the winners of the future, so we renewed vocational training and therefore provide resources for Hungarian higher education of unprecedented size. Next year, the planned domestic GDP will amount to 1.8 percent of the university's resources, which will be spent on the operation and development of our universities. This is more than double the EU's spending. There is also a double increase in the amount of funding allocated to the model-shifting universities, and we offer twice a 15% wage increase for teachers regardless of their maintenance, so this is important for both state model changers and church institutions. The student welfare is also served by our college development plan, which includes 220 billion, in addition to which 48 out of 54 failed PPP schemes have already been replaced. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I could give you a long list of the measures we are taking for young Hungarians. My request is to support these initiatives. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2021-10-18-91	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, you're mistaken. I'm not the trenchman. [[János Schanda: Yes!]] It's you. What is the greater trenching than the artificially forming of a distribution system that contrasts the changing generations? Yes, I did not vote for the 13th month pension alone in this House, but I am proud of it, I would do it again, because I think that our grandparents deserve decent care and not giving out charity as a political favor before the elections. I would ask you to accept the demands of the Civil Reply, which would give students 80 thousand forints for the present pension premium as a bonus to university students, and with the remaining amount, raise student scholarships, social allowances, make sure that young teachers pay no less than the current KSH average wage, net 287 thousand forints, release student loans and introduce the student SZÉP card. These are the demands of the Civil Reply, and until these are met, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-93	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow, because the Member did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title "The high fuel price of the record requires immediate government intervention." By replying to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, and the Minister of State, Mr András Tállai, responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, I spoke about high fuel prices, to be exact, in order to increase the allowance per km for workers, which has been intact for years. This used to be 9 forints, 15 forints from 2017 onwards, but the current record high fuel prices should move and encourage the government to raise it to a minimum of 30 forints. Then Gergely Gulyás, Minister of Prime Minister's Office, did not reject this in his reply, perhaps even saw that he thought it was a good idea, the point is that he did not reject it. To stress this, I submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, which now expects the Parliament's commission to discuss it. First of all, I would like to ask you, and through you, the Hungarian Government, to bring this proposal for a resolution before the Parliament as soon as possible, not to wait months, because this current situation must encourage urgent intervention and urgent solution and must encourage us. But now I am speaking again about high fuel prices, as the process is still deteriorating. The price of fuels has reached such a level, just think that fuel prices have increased four times in the last two weeks and fuel prices will rise again the day after tomorrow. The analysts said it could reach 600 forints. Well, according to the current projections, it may not reach 600 forints, but at least it is so bad that these prices will last. These high prices must require urgent intervention by the Parliament, the Hungarian government, as high fuel prices affect everything, we can mention all sectors, starting with building materials, through food, and exploding price increases can occur. However, this can be prevented by reducing the excise duty or VAT on the fuel. Allow me to bring you a quote: If the petrol price goes above 250 HUF, we will prevent it from rising by reducing excise duty. This can now be put into effect. , said János Áder in 2005. I fully agree with the President of the Republic, so that we mention that now the petrol price is more than double what he mentioned. I therefore look forward to Mr State Secretary's reply on what the Hungarian Government intends to do. I would like to add that if you say in your reply that they are high across Europe and Western Europe, even at a price higher than the Hungarian price, I would like to remind you that in Western Europe, you do not have to pay with the weak Hungarian forint. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-18-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His interpellation, which he did not have time to complete, was rather extensive and diverse in the second half, and it was about quite a lot of things, such as what was asked of you in his last radio interview and how he replied. The point is, indeed, the price of fuel is high, which must be acknowledged, high, has increased significantly in recent years. But in the text of the interpellation, you acknowledge that fuel prices are, by the way, high and significantly increasing in all European countries, even in the world, as a result of the crisis. [[Robert Honkers: I asked you not to say that.]] For example, there is a two-digit increase in all Member States in the European Union. In addition to the crisis mentioned above, there are also statistical reasons for this, as last year there has been a significant price drop from one day to the next, and now we have to compare fuel prices to that low base. There is an average increase of 21 per cent in the European Union. In Hungary, the price of fuel may be a few tenths higher, but there are countries where prices have increased even more than we do. Slovenia, Bulgaria and Germany are among them. In Poland, now looking at the Visegrád countries, for example, there is 28 percent increase. All in all, I would like to say that this is not a unique case in Hungary; unfortunately, this concerns the economy of the whole world. As far as the tax burden is concerned, I would like to tell you that the rate of excise duty is regulated by the European Union and expects the countries to be what. In view of this, Hungary is ranked 28th in the European Union, since petrol is 0.34 cents per cent and diesel excise duty is 0.32 cents per cent. This is the lowest excise duty on fuel in the European Union. It is simply impossible to reduce this excise duty further, as the European Union still expects a higher tax from our country. As regards the comparison of prices, this is true, fuel prices are higher in three quarters or more of the countries, 80% of them than in Hungary. Higher [[György Szilágyi: And the wages too!]] Therefore, other countries are also struggling with high fuel prices, but Hungary is in a favourable position with regard to the final price due to the lower excise duty content. This does not mean, of course, that fuel prices are not high, but are high, but in market processes because, as opposition representatives, it must be recognised that fuel prices are not controlled by governments, but that market processes cannot be interfered with with one or two tax exemptions or a couple of reimbursement increases. Moreover, you are not very keen on voting in favour of tax reductions: since 2019, since you were a Member, you have not voted in favour of any tax cuts before the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-97	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked him not to compare the domestics with the fuel prices of other European countries, because there it is not the weak Hungarian forints to pay, but since he mentioned the high prices of fuels in which countries, he could also mention how high the salaries are in those countries. Because it would be nice to put it in two languages of the scale. He said it's controlled by market processes. I also wanted to ask you, only in my first speech I did not have time to refer to this either, Mr Secretary of State, because two years ago there was less than half the world market price for oil, but this does not mean that less than half of the fuel price in Hungary was due to such high excise duty and VAT. [[16.00]] Then allow me another quote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The state is profiting from high fuel prices. Either the excise duty must be drastically reduced by 20 percent, or the tax on petrol, said Viktor Orbán, President of Fidesz in 2004. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, Mr Secretary of State, I am presenting a proposal for a resolution with the content expressed by Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-18-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I felt that Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: - Should teachers strike to finally hear them? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, commissioned the Minister of Human Resources. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-18-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have tried to ask another ministry to respond, because in recent times we have seen that problems affecting public education have long been affecting not only the EMMI, but also other wallets. On October 5th, the Teachers' Union and the Teachers' Democratic Union announced that the government had left them no alternative but to form a joint strike committee. Teachers have been ringing the alarm since 2018. If the shortage of teachers, if the immeasurably low wages, if the extraordinarily high workload does not change, the education system will collapse, there will be no one to teach our children. According to the representatives of the trade unions, no substantive decisions had been made either then or since, even though, in March last year, strike negotiations were launched with the government, which was later suspended due to the coronal virus epidemic. Since no progress has been made since then, the resolution of the questions has become permanent. The functioning of Hungarian public education has indeed been critical, but not in recent months, but in many years. The government doesn't do anything. He did what he could to make things worse. By increasing the number of teachers' hours, requiring them to create a portfolio, he successfully deterred those entering the profession. Speechful figures: 15,000 people started teaching at universities seven years ago, 2100 finals last year, so that's how many were left on the field. That's 14 percent. Young people don't crumble at universities, we lose them in the first year of employment. The reasons for leaving the course will become clear if we listen to what they demand, rightfully, by trade unions. It's not us politicians, it's the teachers. From 1 September 2021, the minimum wage shall be the basis for the projection of the pedagogue fund. The guaranteed salary of non-peda-workers in the education sector shall be the first step of the civil servants' pay classes as defined in the Budget Act, with the minimum multipliers for the grade being maintained, as follows: A1 for the minimum wage, B1 for the guaranteed minimum wage, F1 for 130 per cent of the guaranteed minimum wage. The working time of those employed in the pedagogue should be 22 hours a week from 1 September this year. Pedagogical and pedagogical assistants, who perform their duties 40 hours a week, should be assigned 35 hours a week to reduce their workload and, like teachers, spend 5 hours a week regeneration and preparation outside the institution. My questions, Mr. Secretary: what are your demands? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which they do not, and why? How much wage increases can teachers expect? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-10-18-101	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think we all agree that the work of teachers should be valued, and that means both material and moral respect. We also agree when teachers say that they want to earn more, because we believe that this is their request, that their need is based on real foundations. This is why the government decided in its first cycle, when Hungary was in a very difficult situation, that the first large public employee group to receive a wage increase would be exactly the teachers. That is why there was a 50-percent, multi-annual, 50-percent wage increase programme there, and in the year of the epidemic, in the year of the crisis, the wages of teachers were not reduced, as you did during the previous crisis, when you took a month's wages from teachers, but increased. We were not only able to keep it on a level, but we were also able to raise the wages of teachers by 10 percent, and the government said that its plan was to raise another 10 percent in the next year as well. In addition, in parallel with the previous wage increase of 10 percent, there was a school principal, deputy school principal, salary increase of 30-50 percent compared to wages or allowances. So in recent years, we have also sought not to pass a government cycle without a wage increase for teachers. And if our economy is able to recover faster as a result of the reboot, it can rise faster, and in 2023 it is no longer possible to start a 10 percent wage increase, but a larger-scale wage increase, as the government decided in 2013 for a larger-scale, multi-annual, 50% wage increase. These are our plans, and these are the steps we've taken in recent years. Another HUF 108 billion surplus is available on educational lines in the approved budget next year. On the other hand, one of your leading politicians, Klara Dobrev, says that teachers do not need government business before the election, they do not need a wage increase. Speak to each other, please, Congresswoman, with your former Prime Minister's candidate. He says there's no need for such extra money, you say it's necessary. They should also talk to other fellow politicians, as András Fekete-Győr explained in detail how to eliminate the upper classes in other settlements than district centres, that there is no need for that. In Hungarian, he announced mass school closures, because he says that there are too many classes in Hungary. András Fekete-Győr was literally quoted. And what we do know is that if you shut down schools, like you did before, when schools were shut down, it was a teaching glove discharge. When you closed schools and member schools in 381 places, it involved the dismissal of 15,000 teachers. You said the numbers here, and I would like to correct it, because in the last recruitment period, there are now thousands more teachers than in the previous period, and you talked about the proportion of those who signed up for teacher training last year as a training teacher. That is a bit of an abstract comparison, Madam honourable Member. What did the students bring you when they were in government? The keys to the schools you closed. They had to pick up the keys to closed schools at the Ministry of Education while selling everything they had, even selling the National Book Publisher during their own period. Your Secretary of State for Education said that the time has come to make clear how many classes, how many students are trained, how many teachers are funded by the central budget today. The form of education that used to operate 8-grade training systems in all settlements is not sustainable. When you were in the government, honourable Member, you were not talking about a teacher's wage increase, you were talking about wage cuts, teacher's allowance, and you even paid for teacher's training in higher education when a general tuition fee was introduced. So we sat down at the negotiating table with the unions, the Deputy Secretary of State for Education [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Secretary of State Kisfaludy has started negotiations with them; as we have done before, we are always negotiating with them, and we are striving to ensure that teachers' wages increase by 10 percent next year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-103	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-104	Thank you very much, Mr President, I cannot accept it. You know, Secretary of State, in 2021, we're still talking about the period before 2010, it's pathetic, even for you. Mr. Secretary, you know, allow me to read you a piece of data from the latest data of the HCSO, if you no longer believe the other numbers. There were 6600 vacant posts in the second quarter of this year, 38 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. [[16.10]] You know, Secretary of State, I find that every year, as parents and as a practicing mother, there are growing problems with how many teachers are missing from primary schools, secondary schools and high schools. You know, Secretary of State, the biggest losers of public education in your government for the past 12 years, you know who they are in Hungary today? The teachers, the kids and the parents. The ones who raise children and the children who go to school. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You know, Mr. Secretary, don't point backwards, but sit down with the profession and accept those guidelines...
u2021-10-18-105	Congresswoman, you've had one minute. You've been going a long way.
u2021-10-18-106	I know, Mr. President, you're only giving someone 40 seconds, Mr. President... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] I know you can't judge the president.
u2021-10-18-107	I think, Congresswoman, you've gone over 20 seconds. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's because it's like this...]] Congresswoman, don't make me take the floor. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély takes a seat.]] Thank you. I gave them both 20 to 20 seconds more. I gave it to the Deputy Minister because you went 22 seconds further. I think that doesn't give us the right to go further than rejoinders. Thank you. Dear Parliament, So the congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. It's an address. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2021-10-18-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Surprised me a little bit. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would honestly be surprised if they were no longer working in the witch's kitchen of the Habony Works on the campaign of how unfair it is to accuse the members of the dear leader's own family and oligarch's friends of favorable financial benefits when the dear daughter of the leader and her family fled the country led by her father. And it's a small beauty that the eastern opening here, in the Turk Council, has been granted observer status, and yet the Rachels have not taken the path of escape to the Kikiks, but have chosen Spain instead. And now don't come up with the idea that if you go to the West a lot, you'll be able to reach the East since Columbus, provided, of course, that you're not on your way to the American continent. But to be kicked by the cat, it is on the way, in which it is good for the Rachels, at least, that we do not have an extradition agreement with some of the countries there. So I guess they're trying to get them to court in the spring, because they won't have a chance to do that, and why would they? OLAF, the EU Anti-Fraud Office, found that 17 cases of fraud mechanisms were organised in 17 cases during the renovation of 35 Hungarian cities financed by EU funds. Instead of starting criminal proceedings, the government abandoned 13 billion euros of EU funding and paid the Hungarian taxpayers' money for the far overpriced projects, which, in addition, have often shed less light because of the burgher execution. And let's hold on, because all this small family action means 1300 HUF for each Hungarian person, but the two companies involved in the case are Sistrade Kft., which was already liquidated in April. and three weeks ago Elios Zrt was wound up. And for its former owners, we know very well that billions, in his pocket, I mean. Of course, one of the owners is the dear son-in-law of the dear leader, István Tiborcz, husband of Ráhel Orbán, the Prime Minister, and once again his son-in-law. And, of course, not only the American continent, but we know very well that the Cayman Islands are on their way, so here's the rusty prick, that the property they took with them, stolen from the Hungarian state, will have a place. Mr. Secretary, the whole story is unscrupulous, so I don't say it's the most obvious cover-up. And what I don't understand is how you imagine that you're gonna get away with this without any punishment. Or are the Rachels preparing your reception in these areas? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-109	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-10-18-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! One of the little flaws is that he didn't put the tinfoil on his head when he was clowning. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's name.]] The other small flaw in beauty, as you said, is that you are the good friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány, if I can see the sign well, because you are sitting in the DK fraction, with Ferenc Gyurcsány in the lead, so you are also his fellow grouper, who led the most corrupt government, and then in the following years; let me just list a few things for you. Siemens case. According to OLAF, there was inside information, abusing huge money, it was corruption. It's a four-way thing. According to OLAF, and here I quote: in 2014, the European Anti-Fraud Office report on the construction of Metro 4 found that major metro-building irregularities and errors were committed. According to OLAF, there has been multiple suspicions of breaches of the European Union's financial interests, misappropriation, fraud, the acquisition of undue economic advantage, a contract in public procurement, a concession procedure, a restriction on competition, bribery, embezzlement, tax fraud, influence trading, a breach of the accounting system and counterfeiting of public and private documents. The report continues: according to OLAF, the irregular contracts affect about 60 percent of the total amount, i.e. HUF 272.8 billion, and I am talking about a total of 166,9 billion non-millions. Honourable Congressman, Read this report. It is worth continuing, as this is also linked to the fact that the purchase of vehicles was also carried out, with the purchase of Alstom vehicles amounting to HUF 22.9 billion. And what happened to that? So far, the UK Office for major anti-Fraud has accused four Alstom leaders of when did Ferenc Gyurcsány govern January 2006 and October 2007? In 2006, say, among the autumn speeches, a total amount of EUR 2.3 million was allocated to BKV officials as a member of a criminal organisation. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, I do not know if you have read the OLAF report, the report states on 10 June 2021 that 2200 irregularities were detected against Hungary between 2016 and 2020, which affected 1.42 percent of payments. This is lower than the EU average, 1.59 percent and significantly lower than many EU states. Compared to what you did before 2010, I think it is corruption and corruption-filled governance. Of course, it is also a small flaw in the current management of the city where Gergely Christmas is the mayor, but the management is in the hands of DK, DKs carry the entire capital to remember it as the bus tender company, it was recently done; they may also know the players who applied for it and carried it, they did not have references. Here's the electricity supply, here's the prolonged Chain Bridge renovation, and you can go on with the questions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for the suggestion that I could say all this in front of the Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-111	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. You have red ears! You're babbling. You're lying. He's just not telling the truth! But first, let's get back to this tinfoil helmet. You know, it's been a long time since you've done that, Mr. Secretary. That's just the size of a straitjacket. That's the cool one with you guys for a long time. What are you talking about, man? ! Well, let's have a look. György Bakondi, prime minister, sees refugees who wish to enter Hungary in all their guerrillas, even though most of the Hungarian youth is fleeing abroad! Well, my daughter fled to Holland because of you! The only difference is, he didn't take the family silver like Rachel Orbán! Well, talk about that, my good man. Stop babbling and babbling. [[Noise.]] [[16.20]] Well, that's amazing what you guys are doing. Don't you feel how pathetic this is? ! Well, they're gonna fall for that soon. Thank you very much, I don't accept the answer.
u2021-10-18-113	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will now continue our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-10-18-114	Mr. President. Mr.Péter Jakab is here, Viktor Orbán is not here, and we will wait until Viktor Orbán is ready for the win. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-115	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. One-party appointments or civil democracy? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-10-18-116	I respectfully accept Minister.
u2021-10-18-117	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, How long will they continue to build the one-party Fidesz overpower with their one-party appointments? That is my question, because we can see that you want to invade all the organs of the Hungarian state power, and unfortunately, this project has progressed quite well: we have already seen again today a bill granting protection to Péter Polt has been submitted to the Hungarian prosecutors. I understand that they are afraid that Peter Polt must be protected, they are absolutely afraid, and I would like to state it. Then another example of this one-party appointment: today, opposition parties have resigned from the appointment of a colleague to replace the media authority and the Media Council's resigned president, because this is outrageous, and the mandate of Monika Karas would expire next November, which she received for nine years, thanks to you, because you are now quickly resigning her to be appointed again for nine years, cemented with shame and shame, so that I remind you of her in the Media Council of a single opposition delegation you have not allowed in. In '19, the five opposition groups were able to agree on one single delegation, because we did what the country demands, and you are shamefully not letting this one into the Media Council to remain a distorted media situation that threatens decent civil democracy and the integrity and freedom of the elections in April next. So, in this distorted media situation, you are on the side of one-party overpower, but next April, our national unity government will finally correct and end this. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-18-119	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-18-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Everywhere in the world where certain officials are elected by a majority greater than a half, i.e. by a two-thirds majority, the termination of the mandate can take place only by such a majority. There's no exception to that. You can't find a normal lawyer who says otherwise. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-121	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-10-18-122	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Then it is a confession to the media situation, and this should be recorded in the walls of this House: already in the 2018 elections, OSCE observers stated that there was no fair choice because of the distorted media situation, and you have since then only bullied it and even distorted the media market. In addition, the EPP Jobbik stands for the direct election of the President of the Republic. I have presented my proposal to this House. What are you afraid of? From the opinion of Hungarian citizens? You also want to elect the President of the Republic in the moments after the last. Well, aren't you ashamed that your replacement system is being artificially extended? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Fundamental Law records it.]] No, no, this will not be the case, as Hungarian citizens also proved during the pre-election that they do have an interest in the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens in a decent civil democracy. We will do this after April, so that they will experience the restoration of this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-18-123	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The OSCE also found that the elections were free in Hungary, despite the fact that the OSCE mission could hardly be accused of excessive bias towards the government, but even they could not keep this from their announcement. As far as the members of the Media Council are concerned, the members of the Media Council will also be elected by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority, and in the future Parliament will have the option to elect the members of the Media Council by a two-thirds majority. The majority of the Parliament's members, how to create a two-thirds majority, are also decided by the voters. The difference is that after we believe in democracy, we respect that, and you do not believe in democracy, so you do not respect that. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-125	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What else can we expect? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-10-18-126	From the Prime Minister himself.
u2021-10-18-127	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: after three months, chaotic conditions. When do they realize they've made a mistake? Is that what the people of Hajdú-Bihar County are worth to you? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person to whom she is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I accept.]] Or he'll ask Minister himself. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-18-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is known that as of 1 July, the new on-call system was introduced in Hajdú-Bihar County, in principle on an experimental basis. From then on, the old on-call system was terminated, and the National Rescue Service took over the operation of the emergency services. Doctors came to me about this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What kind of doctors?]] And I would like to ask questions, Mr. Secretary, from the experience of the last three months. I'd like to ask you the questions. Is it true that the mayors and notaries claim that the new emergency medical emergency, which was introduced with a test character at stormy speed and ultimatum on 1 July, was introduced so quickly because of the fact that this situation arose because of an EU application? Where can this application be accessed, and did the urgency of the introduction really happen? How does OMSZ, as an operator of the general medical emergency care system in Hajdú-Bihar County, evaluate the provision of tasks for the past three months? Can you give me information about that? In several places, the system does not work so much that, in the absence of a doctor or a paramedic, it has also occurred that only an ambulance driver operates 24-hour on-call duty, and there have been two emergency officers who did not have a driver's license. Do you know, Mr. Secretary, that you haven't paid the doctors' on-call fees in over three months? What is the guarantee that they will receive this in hindsight, and when will they finally get their medical pay every month after the on-call? Secretary of State, doctors and patients are being used as guinea pigs in the county of Hajdú-Bihar. Secretary of State, are you aware of these chaotic conditions, and when will you admit that you have made a mistake, and when will you stop operating this system? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-18-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, who will answer the immediate question. [[16.30]]
u2021-10-18-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I do not know where your resources come from, Madam honourable Member, but the last time you attacked this system, you raised a letter or referred to a man whose husband, who had previously been involved in the operation of the watch, if I recall correctly, is in prison. I do not know where your current resources come from, honourable Member, you have produced such a letter before. First of all, irresponsible or not irresponsible. In Hungary, too, it has been for a long time that on-call care has been provided by the emergency services, where the same healthcare workers work, as in other areas of health, are equally competent people. Second, some of the calls are going to the emergency services, because if the emergency room can't take care of the patient, he's going to call the ambulance anyway. Thirdly, honourable Member, I do not know if you have missed your notice when the vice-president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber said that this is a model that is completely acceptable to him, professionally, and that has a historical tradition in Hungary, so there was on-call care. So, on the one hand, there are doctors there, the vast majority of local governments, the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the National Rescue Service, and they all say that this type of development, this type of model program, that ambulances perform on-call tasks, is a professionally correct, supported program. There is a step in this: we introduced it in a county to see how it works, it works now, in 2021 as it was years ago, and if it works, it can be considered whether this is necessary in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Nearly 8,000 patients were assisted, 20 percent of which had to be hospitalized, but 80 percent did not require further such intervention, no lifesaving intervention was needed, but some needed it. Patients' feedback is positive, workers' and residents' opinions are constantly collected and evaluated by the rescue service; their satisfaction is between Grades 4 and 5. 21 on-call sites connected to the programmes [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and all of them are equipped with special vehicles and equipment for highly qualified professionals on duty to the satisfaction of the county. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-131	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Secretary of State, I dare ask this question because I live there in Hajdú-Bihar County and experience what is happening personally. When doctors and assistants come to me with the problem, or, say, rescue workers, how many people have left the rescue service since then, and how many people are understaffed, believe me. Mr. Secretary. I also asked you a written question when I asked for information as to why it was introduced in Hajdú-Bihar County, why not in your county, let's say, there could have been this experimental character introduced. Give me a specific answer for once. Mr. Secretary. He described that detailed information had been provided to the city leaders. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] employees and residents, too. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!) In addition to the secret meeting of the city leaders, because this meeting was rather secret, no one else could have known about it, and some of the workers had received it, but tell me where the population was properly informed of the transformation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Mr. Secretary, for once in your life, stop lying and answer the question. Secretary of State, why [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] Hajdú-Bihar County?
u2021-10-18-133	Congresswoman! You had a minute.
u2021-10-18-134	... they're gonna extend it all over the country. [[The president's gonna turn the speaker's mic back on.]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Miklós Soltész: A little more applause! He deserves more.]]
u2021-10-18-135	Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the Deputy Minister in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Of course, we have tried to prepare this change as thoroughly as possible with the rescue service, so the municipalities have been given detailed information. That was then the letter of protest from this former circle of business, which you, honourable Member, were not exactly one of the most legitimate companies on the part of the leading companies. Well, on the other hand, we have provided detailed information through the municipalities and the press on how planning will be transformed, and these were public to everyone, and they are now. And the ambulance service, honourable Member, was in a difficult situation when you were driving this country, because in the year they were governed, they did not buy ambulances, almost none for years, because they were prepared to privatise the rescue service. Then you have spent 26 billion forints on emergency services, and next year's budget is 65 billion forints on this. $26 billion instead of $65 billion! When we took over the government, the ambulances were over eight years old. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It is now around four years, Madam honourable Member, with much more modern, much better equipped and much younger ambulances running on the roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-137	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The CXCI of 2011 proved to be unconstitutional. on an uneven correction of the law. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-10-18-138	Yes, thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-139	Do you accept?
u2021-10-18-140	Yeah.
u2021-10-18-141	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-142	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Several years have passed since the Constitutional Court ruled that the law on the regulation of invalid pensions was against the law, and for two and a half years Parliament has been failing to comply with the law in order to reach the same solution as the Convention on Human Rights. It was almost entirely up to the decision of your party soldiers, and they also decided that the withdrawal of state benefits from the most vulnerable was unacceptable. By the way, this has happened to a number of Newpest, angelic citizens, and we should therefore speak out for them. In April of this year, a law was submitted, in which a compensation of HUF 500,000 was promised, if they gave up all their rights, and then they would actually be satisfied with it instead of a sum of nearly two million forints. Interestingly, they do this at a time when they are stalling in other cases in eight days when they can arrange for the information to be given to those concerned, compared to this, the pension system now has two months to do so, and otherwise, if they report back, and when the payment is made... they pushed it out by March of next year. I think this is an abuse, an unscrupulous procedure for you to be doing this for several years. Dear Minister, Why are you stalling? I hope it's not to be used as an election trick, as opposed to the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-18-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-10-18-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not know that the value of today's Hungarian politics is still consensus, but when it is sometimes so casually and temporarily established, it also turns out that we do not agree, because on 28 April 2021 we adopted a bill here in Parliament, which made it clear that what you say is that until 31 December 2021 it is possible for those concerned to claim the payment of a simultaneous allowance of HUF 500,000, and if they do not do so, there is still a procedure that guarantees that the compensation of the previous violation of the law can take place after an official review. It is also proposed that the full payment be made by 31 March, which was supported by all parties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-145	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-146	Thank you very much, Minister. According to our calculations, your unconstitutional proposal cost these people one and a half million forints and its interest. Just the other day, I was talking to an old lady who was deprived of transport support, and we could tell her how much damage they caused. In return, you promise a half-million-dollar compensation, and only for a long time, and so calculated. I think that, on the other hand, you could have speeded this up, and in the best interests of the most vulnerable, you could have done so this year. So, one way or another, they insist on the looting of those affected, and they are not compensated, so I raise my voice, and that is why I do not accept what you have said. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-147	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-148	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear fellow Member, For a long time, I have not wanted you to answer arguments in Parliament, but my answer contained that the majority of governments must have made a mistake, although it was the good intentions, since we inherited one million of your disabled countries from you; I think it is right that we have reviewed this. There was a procedural problem that the Constitutional Court found to be contrary to an international treaty. [[16.40]] To make this right, we have adopted a law for its justice and compensation, and you have voted in favour of this legislation, and we are acting accordingly, and you are now asking us to implement the legislation that you voted in favour of and, otherwise, to implement it accurately and truthfully. I don't think that's fair. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-149	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-10-18-150	Thank you, Mr President, we will wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-10-18-151	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-18-152	Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-153	I'm sorry, I'm asking for your understanding, because there's a Deputy Minister in the room. I'll count the time. So, ladies and gentlemen, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas has given the Deputy Minister the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2021-10-18-154	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-10-18-155	You have the floor. 15 seconds count. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On May 25, I spoke once about a local case here in Parliament, and this is a Kistarcha case. Kistarcsai case because it primarily concerns some areas of Kistarcsa, and this is a certain stench. This stench can now be partially demonstrated that it was due to the release of the deposit gas resulting from the operation of the local landfill. For five years, the residents have been struggling to deal with this stingy-smelling gas. A civilian group was also set up and lynched to various authorities, superiors, to finally find a normal and definitive solution to their problem. In many cases, they were given answers as to why they moved there, knowing that it smelled and so on. Of course, they have also turned to the authorities, and have written countless letters, requests, and submissions, but unfortunately nothing has happened to this day. The green authority mostly claimed that they could not carry out measurements which they themselves accepted; I do not understand that, I mean, they themselves. I think it would be very important for these people to solve their problems at last, because the residents of Zsófialiget, Móraliget, Sandman, Simándyliget, Kerepeszép Hill have a legitimate expectation that they can live in clean air so that they do not have to fear their children, and it is legitimate to expect that if and if there is overwhelming evidence that this is caused by the operation of the local dump, effective action should be taken. I'm asking you who to turn to. Thank you very much. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2021-10-18-157	Thank you, Congresswoman. I hope the time frame has been sufficient for you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-158	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It has indeed raised this issue several times here, among the walls of Parliament, but I can say the same in a significant part as before: the government's priority is to reduce the environmental impact on the inhabitants of settlements, which is harmful to human health. This is particularly true for the control and investigation of stink emission activities. I have to say that the Environmental Authority has examined these complaints on several occasions, and at the moment, at the time of the announcements, it is going to investigate the site. These tests are, of course, a significant part sensory tests for the smell effect, and in no case have the experts of the Environmental Authority encountered this stinking effect. Why this is so, it's hard to say we agree on that. This may be the concentration of organic waste emissions, which may relate to wind, environmental elements, air pressure. A lot of things affect these stinking effects. These can occur not only in landfills or in a former landfill, but also in the vicinity of various animal protein processing plants or plants that, for example, process feathers. So in many cases these gases can occur, these stinking effects. I fully understand the inhabitants who live in these areas, in these areas, that this is extremely unpleasant, but in a large part they are not actually harmful effects, but sensory effects. However, the investigation of these will, of course, be ongoing, and if it is established where these stink discharges come from, the government will prosecute the operator. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-159	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor in a minute.
u2021-10-18-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, that was a fair answer. I am pleased that this is a step forward. But I want it to happen. Anyway, I'm talking about this for the second time, and I'm really glad you gave me that answer. I hope the people who live there will finally be able to relax and they won't have to continue to smell this supposed deponia gas from the dump. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-161	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-10-18-162	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for accepting the answer. We've witnessed a rare moment in Parliament. We should celebrate this with joy and even champagne. Thank you very much for your support.
u2021-10-18-163	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-10-18-164	We'd rather wait for the recipient of the question. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-165	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-10-18-166	I'll take it.
u2021-10-18-167	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. The only thing Fidesz learned from his defeat in 2002 was not that they shouldn't steal so much, because they're doing the opposite, from the realization of László Kövér, which he said was that we were on the government, not in power, they decided that the next time people kicked you out of the government, they wanted to remain in power. They're preparing for their defeat in 2022, and apparently all the independent institutions, economic resources and all the other things they know, they're trying to leave it in the hands of their own party soldiers. You have the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Curia, MTVA, the Ombudsman, the Board of Budgets, the GVH, the MNB, the SAO, and there is the NMHH. The Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities was established, including tobacco trading, judicial enforcement, gambling, concession contracts and soon the management of the Mining Authority, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office was established, and soon a leader will be replaced at the head of the National Atomic Energy Office. This means that you want to put Fidesz party soldiers on the front of all these institutions for 5, 9, 12 years or even life imprisonment, or have already done so. In addition, just to get to the economics, they plan to put the motorways, waste management, casinos and even the tramps into concessions for 35 years. In addition, the State's assets are transferred to so-called trust funds, again to 34 different Fidesz-owned trust funds. Minister, my question is: how democratic do you think it is that you want to remain in power even if you have been deprived of trust in the next parliamentary election?
u2021-10-18-169	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2021-10-18-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You think we're about to lose 2022, but a few weeks ago, you're here proclaiming that Gergely Christmas is going to replace us, and you weren't right about that. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: But we're afraid of him!]] Let's not rule out that it's not gonna be in the other one. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So I would like to assure you that we are about to win 2022. The beginning and end of mandates in constitutional democracies is usually the same as the fact that it does not necessarily coincide with parliamentary cycles, but at least the long list you've made here could have looked at the end of the mandates in advance, because, for example, the mandate of the President of the State Audit Office expires in August of next year. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] So the new Parliament will be able to elect the President of the State Audit Office. All other mandates shall be terminated in accordance with the legislation. And by the way, with regard to the head of the Atomic Energy Office, which has already been appointed, I don't think that even party political bias or professional criticism would hold up, we didn't even hear it after the appointment, which will not be in the future, but has happened more than two weeks ago. So I can only tell the Member that, as an encouragement, all these problems, which do not exist in principle, will not even arise in practice if the civilian government remains in office after 2022. I suggest you support this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-171	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. There you go, in a minute.
u2021-10-18-172	Once again, we are talking about the case that if the will of the majority of people prevails and you cannot continue to govern, your goal is to remain in power. We will definitely prevent this, because in 2022, the stakes of the election are not only to keep you on the government, but to keep the morally corrupt, rotten system that you have built, the people who have replaced it, whether you want to eliminate it or not. If so, it entails saying once again that Fidesz party soldiers should be removed from the head of independent institutions and given their place to those truly professional leaders. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Aha!]] Those who can carry out these tasks with responsibility. By the way, I would like to point out that it is not only against the Constitution, but also against the spirit and letter of your Fundamental Law, so that no one's activities are aimed at the exclusive possession of power, and that is, in this case, that is what it is. So I'd like to ask you again how constitutional you consider it to be in accordance with the Fundamental Law. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the practice you're conducting, given that the president is ringing the bell. The Karas Monika scandal, too. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Scandal?!]]
u2021-10-18-173	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-174	One is discouraged by losing the meaning of words and concepts. So, if I understand correctly, the totality of power means that if you win the election, we still have the power. I do not understand this very much, because the Hungarian Constitution gives clear guidance on the powers of the government, and these powers can be exercised by the government if it is established that if the majority of Parliament is acquired by the Prime Minister and the ministers are appointed by the President of the Republic, then it will be able to exercise it in its entirety. So what I can say is that it is also possible for you to win the election in this regard to allow me to have reservations, but if you win the election, you can form a government; if you win the election by a two-thirds majority, you will have the same parliamentary powers as any two-thirds majority in the previous eight parliamentary term. Such a constitutional democracy since 89-90. It's a shame that today there are forces trying to gain power that, even without a crime, want to kick it off. I think you should refrain from doing so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-175	Thank you for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, István Bajkai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Where can the hatred on the left lead? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The Hungarian government has always stood indisputably in Brussels for the protection of national minorities, which is why it is right to ask whether the European Left or the Left itself are aware that their Hungarian friends have come together with those who openly insult minorities in their human dignity. During the so-called show of the pre-election program, we have also heard comments that are particularly offensive to minorities. Ozd's better-than-thou deputy mayor's rallying photo, quoting Nazi terror, was well-wounded, after which, of course, in the left-wing media, the serene washing and the miscopy started immediately, that it was a so-called simple wave. But I could also point out, as an example, that Ferenc Gyurcsány was happy to campaign with the Szeged Jobbik who spoke earlier about the suppression of Gypsyism in an angry tone, and proclaimed the Hungarian race protection of Szalasi, which is painful and even tragic in some of our fellow citizens. Let us not forget, of course, that the hardest aggression is not far from the left, for according to Peter James, it is appropriate to smother a walker who walks a dog with a stranglehold, or just that Ferenc Gyurcsány threatened a citizen who did not sympathize with him while yelling in the open street. Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for left-wing cooperation led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was previously responsible for the physical punishment of children when necessary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell rings) I wouldn't quote any more of them. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask the Minister where it can lead [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the hatred on the left. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-177	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-18-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The fact is that we always listen with interest to those left-wing speeches that indicate the hatred of Hungarian public life, because it would be very easy to eliminate it. It would be enough if the left did not cause hatred, not only against this government, but if Hungary had a national government since the change of regime, then they always did everything at home and abroad to stir up hatred of the government as much as possible. (Dr. Adam Steinmetz in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Now, not lost in concrete examples, as you have listed many of these, but you can see that there is no common sense or good taste on the other side, because if we thought about the earlier statements of Ferenc Gyurcsány's newest Prime Minister's candidate, that if anyone had done so on the government side, he would have been executed politically in a few days by the left-wing press, which, as you can see, is strong enough to do so. So when it comes to the possibility of listing gypsies, when, without any foundation, communities, not public actors, children of public actors can be gayed, these are new phenomena in Hungarian politics, which are obviously embedded in the fact that the far left, the Democratic Coalition and the far right, Jobbik hugged and merged in a comrade kiss. We see the consequence of this in public life, this unprecedented hatred will be part of the election campaign, and the reason for that is that if we had to compare rationally the political performance that Ferenc Gyurcsány's government could claim with the political achievements of the last decade, then they also know that they would not have a chance to get into Parliament, so they have only one option to create hatred. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-179	I thank the Minister for his reply and give the floor to the Member in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I would just like to add two more quotes that we heard directly from Péter Márki-Zay. When it was about the issue of Roma catch-up, he simply stated that the statistics on who the Gypsy is and who the non-Gypsy is would not be from the devil. The second quote: regarding radical accountability, he said that I quote, "I don't want to say what candelábers can be used for in addition to posters and posters. We have to say that the cooperation that calls itself the left is actually specializing in hatred and wants to unleash hatred in this country. Actually, it's a hate coalition on their part. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, your examples also make it clear that the left has succeeded in finding a candidate for Prime Minister from outside the European culture circle, which is a guarantee that Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc will understand each other well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2021-10-18-183	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:.. Can we continue to expect the government to protect the Hungarians, or to give in to external and internal ideological pressure, and to open the way for migrants' inflow? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr István Németh Szilárd gave the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-10-18-184	Yes, thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-185	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-186	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Illegal immigrants have surrounded Europe and are coming along the Spanish, Italian and Balkan routes. Action against more than 80,000 illegal migrants this year is a violation. As a reminder, this number was 21 847 in 2017, 6506 in 18, 17 252 in 2019 and 46 179 in 2020 alone, and at the end of the last week the police acted against more than a thousand illegal migrants. For this reason, it is even more justified to maintain strong Hungarian border protection, as migration pressure at the border is persistent, the number of violent border-breaking attempts is constantly increasing, and the activities of human smugglers are increasing. Other refugee flows are expected from Afghanistan, as the institutions of the transitional Afghan government, established in September 2021, are not functioning. In this way, persecution of minorities can become more permanent and human, drug and arms smuggling can become even more dominant. Dear Secretary of State, I ask: can you continue to expect the government to protect the Hungarians, or do we give in to external and internal ideological pressures and open the way to the influx of migrants? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh Szilárd, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-188	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, there is enormous pressure on the Hungarian border, and this border also means the external Schengen border of Europe, and Hungarians protect not only their own country, but also the security of Europe as a whole, as against the Turks or even during the period of communism. Today, people can live in peace, at least in Berlin, Paris, Brussels, thanks to strong Hungarian border protection, among other things. Now, instead of Brussels contributing to the hundreds of billion-dollar costs that Hungary has spent since 2015 on border protection, they would like to thank at least Schengen for border protection, instead of attacking the whole country in the back and launching all kinds of imaginary procedures against us because we refuse to allow migrants into Europe. Those countries that have a land border, they have a new sense of migration pressure, and I am thinking of Estonia, Lithuania and, of course, of our brothers, Poland; they are building a fence, and for some reason, these fences are not such a problem as the Hungarian fence. The figures you have mentioned show not only that there has been a three-and-a-half-fold increase in the capture of illegal immigrants at the Hungarian border, but also that the number of smugglers has tripled in Hungary, it is organised actions. I can say that as long as there is a Fidesz-KDNP government in this country, we will protect the borders of Hungary and Europe and guarantee the security of Hungary and Europe. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-189	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-190	Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has always been at the forefront of border protection, which is what it is doing now. Thank you, too. Last week, a mutual agreement was reached between the military leaders of the V4 in order to preserve the stability of Central Europe, as the biggest challenge is the ever-increasing migration and the related smuggling of people. Due to the unstable foreign policy situation in Afghanistan, everyone is now building a fence, as the Secretary of State said, but no European leaders have yet recognised the results of Hungarian border protection. Hungary has used nearly HUF 500 billion to address the migration situation and strengthen borders. I note that the European Commission has, as far as I know, contributed only HUF 7 billion of this 500 billion to these costs and expenses. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The decision on Hungarian border protection was not only made simply, but the whole country lived through 2015 when 400,000 illegal migrants crossed the country, destroying southern areas, invading motorways, railway stations, sneaking in everywhere. We saw what happened. At that time, people decided in a national consultation that that was enough. This was then confirmed in a referendum in October 2016, just five years ago. This is why the government has built a fence, which is why Parliament has ordered the soldiers on the border, which is why the police are very determined to do their job with the most modern means of protecting Hungary and Europe from the wave of migration that has reached us. This will pose an increasing threat, even because it is a threat to health at the time of social security and here in the pandemic, which migration is a threat to health, in this period it will increase to many times in the Western Balkans. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-18-193	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, I give you the floor of Eszter Zsuzsanna Vítalos... Wait a minute. I ask you to understand that, in my reading alone, in my paper, the congresswoman was in the first place, and in the meantime there has been a change. So, Honourable Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Minister of State the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Tibor Nunkovich nodds.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-10-18-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I suppose I'm not surprised to ask you about the slave law. In fact, last week, several information was published in the press, which was later confirmed by the trade unions. In Hungary, thanks to the slave law and its legal background, there are several companies that, due to the past covidous epidemic, have had to give their employees job times, and now they cannot work with the employees, and the law gives them the opportunity to actually deduct these issued job times from their salaries. This has happened, but thanks to the great outrage, these companies have either returned their salaries or will be returned to their employees next month. This wouldn't have happened if you hadn't passed this shameful law in 2018 and hadn't been fooled over by Parliament, but it wouldn't have happened and it wouldn't have happened if you had followed Jobbik's proposal at the beginning of 2020 or in spring that would have given 80% wage support to companies and workers where there was a loss of working time. This is the money that companies are now trying to collect, unfortunately, in accordance with the legislative framework, but this situation needs to be changed. I would also like to note that I do not think there is another country in the world, but certainly not in Europe where such a work law would allow the Hungarian workforce to be drained at such a level, and otherwise there is not even a Prime Minister who would have sold his employees and said that the Hungarian Labour Code is sufficiently flexible and that the Hungarian labour force is quite cheap compared to its quality. [[17.10]] On this basis, I ask the Deputy Minister to withdraw the slave law or to put the Labour Code on a new footing. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-195	Thank you. I give the floor to Deputy Minister János Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am in an easy position, because today I have denied this false news and this misunderstanding to the question of your fellow Member, by the way, his fellow political group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. If you would listen to the Parliament's work and listen to the comments, then you would also be aware that it is basically a complete false report. The government was on the side of the workers and is on the side of the workers, the law must be followed by everyone, and all employers must respect it. The interpretation of the law that these employers have used and what you refer to is wrong is wrong. We have made this clear to them, made it clear to everyone, and the Hungarian government is launching targeted official investigations in companies where such abuses have occurred. Honourable Congressman, I repeat once again that the Jobbik faction may succeed for the second time, let us trust that basically there were misinterpretations of the law, that the rules of the working time were misinterpreted by these companies, the Hungarian government is on the side of the employees, and that we will investigate all cases where they have not acted properly. But by the way, honourable Member, my suggestion is that when you talk about wage subsidies, you should do this with caution, and I would also consider, if I were you, that I would hide behind the bench here, because, Congressman, you had the opportunity to help wage subsidies, decide on wage subsidies here in Parliament, and you said no. You voted against the support of Hungarian companies and Hungarian employees. Shame on you for that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Minister, I didn't want to exceed your current position here today in Hungary, so that the current government is on the side of the workers, I beg you, if that were the case, then this law wouldn't have been born! Then would it not be a code of work in Hungary, but do you know what it is? It is something that also supports employers, but also supports and protects their employees. This is currently not true in Hungary. You're still saying there's been a misinterpretation of the law. I beg you, if you worked on this law, maybe you shouldn't have left open gates in it, right? ! Because if there weren't open gates, there wouldn't be any misinterpretation. But it's okay. We'll fix it in 22. Thank you.
u2021-10-18-199	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Not only do we say that this is a misinterpretation of the law, but in the negotiations with trade unions they themselves say that in some cases there has been a real misinterpretation of the law in companies. Where appropriate, an official inquiry will be initiated and otherwise the employer's We're protecting interests. But, honourable Member, don't say anything about employee interests. Don't say anything about employees' interests by joining forces with the left and joining Ferenc Gyurcsány, under whom unemployment was skyrocketed, and employment was extremely low. On the other hand, thanks to the work of the civil national government and the work of Hungarian businesses, employment has risen to an unprecedented level in Hungary today. My request is that you acknowledge these findings. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-201	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Vitályos wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what can Hungary do if the opposition is the opposition to the country? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Minister Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: Yes, thank you very much.]] Before I count the time for your reply, allow me to give you a special welcome, because you have often spoken in Parliament as Secretary of State, but I understand that this is your first speech as a Member. Welcome, you have the floor.
u2021-10-18-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, Our country respects the criteria of the rule of law and believes in communities based on strong nation states. Our long-standing Christian culture ensures real diversity, against which Brussels once again attacked, which no longer includes the introduction of illegal migrants and the dissemination of global LGBTQ propaganda. Our family - friendly country protects children and leaves parents the right to have sex with their children only at their own discretion. The governors and domestic representatives of the European Left are also involved in the permanent offensive, as well as with our Polish friends, and they are not afraid to put economic pressure on our countries beyond politics. They do so by saying that it is time to put an end to the witch hunt against Hungary after the visit of the delegation of the LIBE Committee. Anna Donáth was also a member of this delegation, who makes efforts several times a week to insult our country at Věra Jourova, Vice-President of the European Commission. Dear Deputy Minister, Thanks to Hungary's opposition, it is not surprising that the European Parliament's legal committee adopted the left-wing motion, based on which the European Parliament can sue the European Commission for not applying the Rule of Law Conditionality Regulation against Hungary and Poland, in a confidential procedure on Thursday afternoon. It is typical that you are better informed, who also thought that the result of the vote would be known, and you have been bravely published about it. I think, however, that it is a legal concern that the President of the Legal Committee, Lázara Vázquez Adrian and the rapporteur, Sergey Lagodinsky, are the ones who did this, and in the newspaper Politico in Brussels. Excuse me, Comrade Virág, that's the verdict. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Typically, after the vote, Katalin Cseh publicly threatened the European Commission in a Facebook post that the panel would be sued if it did not apply the rule of law mechanism. Dear Deputy Minister, What can Hungary do if the opposition is the opposition to the country? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I've counted 17 seconds. Deputy Minister, you have the floor to answer.
u2021-10-18-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Rule of Law Regulation adopted by the European Parliament entered into force on 1 January 2021, under which EU Member States in breach of the rule of law risk losing EU funds. During the fight against the withdrawal of EU funds, Hungary and Poland intend to prevent the European Parliament and the Commission from withholding EU funds on the basis of said, inadequately defined criteria. Our action has been brought, on the one hand, with regard to the full regulation and, on the other hand, with regard to certain provisions thereof. The Hungarian position focuses on three main legal problems. On the one hand, the legal basis of the regulation is inadequate, as it empowers the EU legislator to adopt budgetary rules, but the regulation does not contain such rules, and Parliament and the Council had no power to adopt the regulation. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) On the other hand, the Regulation, by establishing a parallel procedure, infringes and bypasses Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the rule of law issues, while also infringes the principles of division of powers, delegation of powers and institutional balance. Finally, the Regulation violates one of the most important principles of the rule of law, legal certainty, which guarantees that the application of a law is predictable and predictable, both overall and in a number of specific elements. If this is not fulfilled, the legislation and its application will be self-indulgent, which is simply unacceptable to the Hungarian government. It is certainly regrettable that, thanks to the political pressure of the European Parliament, the Court of Justice has initiated an accelerated procedure, which is interesting because the Court of Justice generally takes approximately three years to consider and, as it stands, only six months to consider this complex case. We strongly believe that the conclusions reached at the highest political level by Heads of State or Government should guide the EU institutions and the attitude of the Member States to the Conditioning Regulation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-18-205	Good afternoon. Welcome. We will continue our work by giving Congresswoman the floor. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2021-10-18-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, Thank you very much for your response, and I very much hope that the strong position and perseverance of the Hungarian government will be a beacon on which Europe will find its Christian-Conservative roots. However, until this happens, we must be the guardians in our own home, in our own communities, showing the right direction. It is regrettable that, in many places, even some secular religious leaders in many countries miss this sometimes, who, dressed in civilian robes, seek political laurels, and then sold themselves to the left-wing liberal elite for 30 silver, which then denounces our country in Brussels. Personally, the people of Pilis-Duanakanyari, who are proud of their diverse ethnic culture, traditions and a thousand years of history, I can promise you not to be afraid that we will preserve our culture and protect Hungary, because we know where we come from and where we are going. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-18-207	Mr. Secretary, in a minute, please.
u2021-10-18-208	In the case at hand, it is interesting that, pending the examination of the action for annulment, the Commission cannot finalise its guidelines for its application or initiate measures. However, Parliament is putting it under pressure, which is an open political action, so it has nothing to do with the rule of law criteria. It is no coincidence that they are in a hurry, since they may have a clear goal of interfering with the Hungarian parliamentary elections, by riding on the issue of the rule of law. We had the LIBE Committee, and didn't forget to visit our country shortly, Didier Reynders, Commissioner for Justice. So it is clear to us that they are trying to put as much pressure on the Government of Hungary as possible by arguably speeding up the rules of procedure, and thus to help the failing opposition, which we see on the side of Brussels that it is actively involved in. We're not gonna let this go. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-18-209	Dear Parliament, This concludes the item on the agenda for immediate questions. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate of the Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/16380 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, to speak on behalf of the Justice Committee. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-210	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr Kozma Ákos Ombudsman, Mr Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet Deputy Ombudsman Mrs Bándi Gyula Deputy Ombudsman! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 26 May, the Judicial Committee discussed the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020 and, with its support, decided to submit the proposal for a decision under discussion. On 8 June, the Parliament held the general discussion of the report and the proposal for a resolution in a balanced debate, recognising the thoroughness of the Ombudsman's report in every detail. This is also expressed by the fact that no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled by its representatives, so as chairman of the committee, I have only the current debate on the Commission's reports. I would like to thank the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Committee on Sustainable Development for their position in support of these proposals. On this basis, I ask you to support the H/16380 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020. adoption of a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-18-211	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Kresta Traján, Romanian ethnic advocate, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2021-10-18-212	Thank you. Onorate Domnule Președinte! Onorat Parliament! Onorate Domnule Ombudsman, Onorată Doamnă Vice-Ombudsman, Onorate Domnule Vice-Ombudsman! Mr President, Dear House, Dear Commissioner, Madam Vice-President, Mr Vice-President, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 11 May 2021, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Section 2, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and Dr. Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020 B/15278. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, his deputy for the protection of national rights and the apparatus of AJBH considered monitoring, evaluation and control of the enforcement of legislation in the interests of nationalities in Hungary as a priority in the reporting period covered by the Covid-19 epidemic. Their activities have helped to a significant extent to prepare the necessary amendments to national minority legislation and to provide technical support and parliamentary acceptance for their justification. In the face of the difficulties caused by the epidemic, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, moving to the new headquarters implementing organizational and several Methodical renewals, and in this context, the Deputy Commissioner and colleagues responsible for ethnic matters, continued their activities in 2020 with the usual high-quality professionalism, thoroughness and creative spirit. The detailed report showed that the tasks of the Equal Treatment Authority ceased at the end of December 2020 were taken over by the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and that, as a positive change for citizens, it could examine not only closed but also ongoing cases. The case number shows that this is one of the most demanding fundamental rights protection activities on the part of citizens. On the basis of the changes, since 1 January of this year, the Directorate-General should not consider matters relating to ethnicity in such a way that the opinions and opinions of the Deputy Commissioner and of her colleagues have not been taken into account. His staff dealing with all issues related to nationality in the area of nationality have been integrated into the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality Secretariat. In 2020, despite the challenges, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality carried out intensive professional activities, in which he examined 351 individual submissions, initiated 20 ex officio procedures and issued 12 priority professional documents. The structure of the submissions in the area of nationality changed somewhat in 2020 and the AJB Office sees a tendency to raise a higher number of general complaints involving all nationalities rather than individual maladministration, but more in principle. The number of complaints from the classic nationality area has decreased, and the number of requests due to the situation of the social crisis has increased, but within the number of cases of classic nationality there is a shift towards education, minority self-governments, elections, censuses, individual and community naming issues. Based on the report and the experience of the past years, we value the cooperation of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities as meaningful and effective, and we trust that the joint work will continue effectively. [[17 .30]] On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in the 2020 plenary session. Thank you very much for your attention. Vă mulțumesc pentru atenția cu care m-ați onorat. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-10-18-213	Thank you very much. Members' speeches may follow. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vejkey, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-10-18-214	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to express my thanks to the Ombudsman and his deputies for their efforts in the epidemic situation. As a resume of the parliamentary debate, it is a fact that the report by the Commissioner and his alternates on the activities of fundamental rights in 2020 fully complies with the requirements of the law, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/16380. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-10-18-215	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of Belize on the publication of the Agreement on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17143. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, a presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Belize on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports T/17143. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 34 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is of paramount importance for our country to have a close relationship with Central American countries in terms of cultural, economic and diplomatic relations. For this reason, on 28 May 2021 the ambassadors of Hungary and Belize signed a bilateral agreement deepening Hungarian-Belize relations. The Agreement provides that nationals of the other Party with diplomatic, service and official passports may travel to each other without any visa or administrative burden. Cooperation is also developing in a very wide range of specific sectors, not only in the area of administration. An excellent example of this is the area of education, as the ambassadors signed an educational cooperation agreement for 2021-2023 on the basis of which Belize also participates in the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme in this academic year. Dear House, The conclusion of the agreement was initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Belize, and this is also appropriate for our country, as the assessments carried out as a result of the possibility of an earlier visa waiver agreement between the Central American country and the European Union did not reveal a safety risk. It is important to mention this because, as a general rule, EU competence in the European Union is to determine whether third-country nationals are visa-free or visa-free, while Article 6 (1) (a) of EU Regulation (EU) 2018/1806 of 14 November 2018 allows EU Member States to grant visa waivers to nationals of otherwise visa-free States with diplomatic passports or service passports or official passports. Belize has granted a unilateral visa waiver to citizens of the Member States of the European Union since 1990, which means that Hungarian citizens can stay in the country for 30 days without a visa if the passport is valid for at least half a year at the time of entry. However, the aim of the new agreement is to ensure visa-free entry for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports in Hungary and Belize for up to 90 days visa-free stay in Hungary and Belize. In view of this, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-217	Thank you very much. Now I ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. We now have representatives' speeches. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary again... [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-18-218	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill in the vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-219	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the XCIII of 2021 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and on the coordination of defence and security activities. the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the law and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/17054. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee, will now give his opinion. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the XCIII of 2021 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and on the coordination of defence and security activities in the various domestic laws. T/17054 on the amendment of the Act. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 26 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of 2021, we adopted the law on the coordination of defence and security activities, which, in conjunction with the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, created the framework for our country's renewable defence structure. The bill adopted then imposed legislative obligations on all sectors, and now we have the first package of proposals drawn up by the home affairs sector, which seeks to introduce six defence laws into the new system. They are, of course, mainly technical amendments aimed at creating legislative coherence and terminology. Most of the changes concern the disaster management law. The amendments include a flexible, bottom-up protection structure that leaves control of protection, for example, to the extent that the weight of the event does not justify action by the general government. Laws on police, law enforcement and the protection of classified data provide simple conceptual clarifications and refer to the legal institution for coordinated defence activities in the Water Management Act. The proposal consists of such and similar technical amendments, which will allow for a smooth transition to the new defence structure that will be created by 2023. In view of this, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-18-221	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Kontra, if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Once again, after closing the debate, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-10-18-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal in tomorrow's vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-223	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for a Hungarian military engagement in the TAKUBA casual battle force and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is H/17144. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[17.40]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/17144 H/17144 on the role of Hungarian military in the TAKUBA casual military force. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 35 votes in favour. Dear House, In the proposal for a resolution before us, we will have to decide that the soldiers of our defence will play a role in the operations of the TAKUBA occasional combat force, which would like to help the countries of the region, in particular Mali and the Republic of Niger, to establish stability in the Sahel. The Hungarian Government's position on asylum issues has long been clear, and the main element of which is that problems need to be resolved at the place where they are created. This will enable the population of regions affected by various crises to thrive in their homeland, to work in decent conditions and to do so for their livelihoods and for their growth. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the Sahel area has not been called such a region for a long time. Since the Arab Spring, civil war has been on the rise in the countries of the region, and Islamist terrorist groups have been trying to dominate the area, who have recently been trying to strengthen migration flows towards Europe, as they see financial potential in them. So far, efforts have been made under French leadership to achieve stability, and current efforts are pointing towards the establishment of a European anti-terror military task force. Participation in TAKUBA's operations is entirely in line with the Government's efforts, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the proposal and the participation of our soldiers in the counter-terrorist mission. Thank you for listening.
u2021-10-18-225	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author again, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I will inform you that decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali, signed in Bamako on 7 March 2013 and in Koulouba on 8 March 2013, relating to the Agreement on the Status of the SERVAL Forces, lodged between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali, on the announcement of accession to the Additional Protocol on the regulation of the status of non-French forces of TAKUBA, signed in Bamako on 8 March 2013, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17146. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, a presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee, Mr Dávid Héjj, rapporteur of the committee, will be presented. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the announcement of the accession of the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali to the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali on the status of non-French forces, signed in Bamako on 7 March 2013 and in Koulouba on 8 March 2013, to the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali on the regulation of the status of non-French forces of TAKUBA. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 35 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear House, Two international treaties are attached to the proposal for a decision on Hungarian military engagement in the TAKUBA casual combat force, which concern the recognition of the mandatory scope of the acceptance declaration attached to the protocols on the status of multi-national forces, i.e. non-French forces. Two separate international treaties are necessary because one concerns Mali and the other concerns Niger. During the general debate, all speakers expressed their support for both proposals, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs attached a clarification and clarification Commission amendment. In view of these considerations, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-18-227	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] It says no. A statement by its Members may follow, as is the case with the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has not produced a rapporteur. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Once again, it is my duty to ask Mr. Secretary of State if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports to be submitted to the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the legal arrangements for the intervention of the French forces in Niger for the security of the Sahel, signed in Niamey on 25 March 2013, and to the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the regulation of the status of French military personnel in Niger in the framework of French intervention in the security of the Sahel area, signed in Niamey on 19 July 2013, and the discussion of the draft amending proposal between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the promulgating of accession to the Additional Protocol on the status of non-French forces of TACUBA. The government referral is T/17145. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will be presented first in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the committee rapporteur will tell you. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the accession of the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Niger to the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the legal arrangements for the intervention of the French army in Niger for the security of the Sahel, signed in Niamey on 25 March 2013 and the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the regulation of the status of French military personnel in Niger in the framework of French intervention in the security of the Sahel, concerning the declaration of accession to the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the regulation of the status of non-French forces of TAKUBA. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 36 votes in favour. Dear House, As I said earlier, two separate international treaties provide for Mali and Niger, the latter being T/17145. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as the Commission's amendment on Mali, has tabled a proposal which contains only one technical clarification, and should therefore be supported in the light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-18-229	Thank you very much. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr Szilárd Németh, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. A speech may be held by Members. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary?
u2021-10-18-230	I'm following the previous practice, thank you very much, no.
u2021-10-18-231	I understand, so I can tell you that you do not wish to speak, and I inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-10-18-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I usually address the situation of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and the current and general problems affecting the region. I would like to talk about such a very, very long-standing issue, and this is the problem of public transport and public transport in Pécs. Here we can talk about very serious corruption scandals, failing reforms, austerity, withdrawal, and now we can see that the government is a hypocrite, so we can say that it has started a campaign on the situation of public transport, but this is hardly helping the municipalities, hardly helping the city of Pécs. We know that there will be a lot, a lot of work to be done here after the change of government. Here, in general, public transport, public transport reform and the replacement of the fleet will be a task that will have to be solved by the next government working responsibly. It will also be a very, very important task to restore the funding of municipalities and to address the constraints and the harmful effects of austerity that this current government has caused. But accountability will also be an equally important task, which has always been lacking, the discovery of serious corruption crimes, and the work that will not only get us to the surface, but also to those political criminals who were behind such a serious corruption case. In the city of Pécs in 2014, it was formulated that a new bus fleet was needed in the city in connection with a previous scandal. The news came that there was a used bus fleet in the Netherlands, which could be suitable for the city, and the various procurement procedures were launched. The local assembly, the municipal body, received various information on the basis of which an EU international public procurement was launched, which practically took place in spring 2015. Then it was not long before it became clear that there was a very serious, hundreds of millions of dollars of damage to the city, and that we were faced with one of the most serious corruption crimes in the history of the city. At that time, as a municipal representative, I used all the means at my disposal, and finally, I filed a complaint in this case on suspicion of a particularly high financial disadvantage in the economy. Many, many years have passed, but the case has not yet ended, it is obviously in court now, but we do not see the responsible, so we are not even close to having a real accountability. At the same time, it is a very, very serious development that, based on the information requested by the various authorities, we have seen that previous or current politicians can become involved. We know that the winner was announced in this procurement procedure on 6 March 2015 and that the contract was concluded on 30 April 2015. But between these two dates, on 13 April 2015, the secondary defendant also appeared in the Netherlands, where this particular acquisition took place, and according to the indictment, he appeared in a bank with a bribe of EUR 900 million, and as a result the Dutch authorities began to take action, and the scandal exploded. At the same time, a passenger list recently requested revealed that on 9 April 2015, two politicians, two then MPs, Péter Csizi and Erik Bánki also traveled to the Netherlands. Péter Csizi is no longer a Member of Parliament, but Erik Bánki is also a Member of Parliament. We also know that the third-rate defendant admitted his guilt in the preparatory phase of the trial, he received two years of suspended imprisonment for five years and 179 million forints of confiscation. At the same time, it can be seen that Zsolt Páva, the former mayor of Pécs and Péter Csizi, former Member of the Parliament of Pécs, have already been summoned to court. For the time being, there is no mention that the current Member of Parliament, Erik Bánki, would receive such an invitation as a witness. But it is quite clear that what has happened here in the fidesz era in Pécs has been a truly amazing and serious, hundreds of millions of dollars worth of damage to this city that has already been cheated and sold many times. After that, what we have seen here in recent years has been particularly serious. We know that these scandals have occurred here in the past fidesz period, and that is why it would have been worth it to the city of Pécs to receive support from the government and the National Assembly to support a new fleet of buses. This was repeatedly rejected by the majority of the government. So what I can tell you is that the solution to this task falls to the new government to be elected next year, just as it is to be accounted for and to seek out the names of true sinners. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-233	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, representative of DK, asked for a speech:.Külpest Guys 1956 Memorial of the XV. on the uprising of the district sixty-five years ago and the resistance to arms The title is given Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-10-18-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In connection with the external districts of Budapest, we had the history of the 1956 events processed by a professional historian, and this became the title of the book, and I gave this to my post- Agenda comment, as I would like to commemorate the events that occurred 65 years ago in my constituency, the XV. in the district and in part in Újpesten. Sixty-five years ago, in Rákospalota and Pestújhely, and in Újpest, similar things happened, as on Rákóczi Road, during the procession to the Radio. The same atmosphere, and many of them also participated in the Rákóczi Road parade, and the next day the repetition of that manifesto began, and in fact a small revolution in Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpesten started. I think it is important to remember events not only because it was a round anniversary, 65 years ago, but because there are victims and perhaps heroes of this event, local heroes. The first event was an invasion of the police. They decided to go to the police. It is estimated that we have little information and data about the poverty that has caused this anger, and the courage to show up to the police without a weapon shows that the local population has no longer tolerated it. Luckily, the local police commissioner didn't give orders to fire, and after the arguments, the district police department was taken over by local revolutionary heroes, or I can say they're revolutionarys. The main aim of the police occupation was to take control of police movements and, on the one hand, to bring out weapons and access to weapons. The same happened in the neighboring district, in Újpesten in the same way, but there was a shooting, there was an order of fire, and there were victims. Among the dead, there are also cancer palaces, because they went over to help out with Cancer Palace after they already had a gun. Unfortunately, these events occurred at the time. They were simple factory workers, leather factory, iron factory, plant oil factory, construction cooperative, so the simple workers working in the local industry didn't even think about it when they got up in the morning that they might not even be alive at night, and so they did. [[18.00]] Their demands were the same as before the Radio. Among the main demands was to step out of the Warsaw Treaty, to divide the ÁVH, to march out the Soviet soldiers, to investigate Stalinist lawlessness, to cancel the ticket system, and to see the demands of many similar things on the leaflets of the time and on the remaining documents that commemorate it. To this event, the district erected statues and plaques, and so we remember these people, who were district heroes and brave revolutionaries. On Saturday, October 23, we will be wreathing at the kopja tree of reconciliation, as well as at the cemetery where 78 deceased names are erected on the plaque to which we go every year, and we will remember them with grace. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-235	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, spoke with the title of our joint affairs. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-236	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. Well, it's been a long time since I've seen my fellow members of the government. Now I look at the clock, it's 6:00 p.m., and I have to say again that I am disappointed because there are very few people in this Chamber. So the summer has passed, and what have you done to solve one of the biggest problems in Fejér County, the Ironworks, for 4500 Hungarian jobs? [[He's taking a break.]] Well, that's it. The big stinking did nothing this summer to save 4,500 jobs. Let us be a little nice to you because you did this summer, for example, your foundation in Dunaújváros tried to stop, among other things, the Mayor of Budapest. I don't know how that helps the Ironworks, but you've worked hard on this. But if this collection of signatures against the mayor of Budapest has not helped the Ironworks, then perhaps the peace process will. Because it's also heavily organized, it's also heavily organized in Dunaújváros, and people will be transported by buses. I don't know, maybe this miracle weapon will work, because none of their work this summer has done anything for the Ironworks. This morning I came to Parliament, and then I ran back to Dunaújváros, because we started a memorial park. A memorial park on the first director of Ironworks, Borovszky Ambrus. He built and led the Ironworks for 25 years. Miklós Miskolczi, citizen of Dunaújváros, remembered the director with the following sentences. He had several billion forints in his hands as the director of the Ironworks. Yet, a one and a half-bedroom apartment in Dunaújváros began and died in a one and a half-bedroom apartment in Dunaújváros. He didn't have a yacht, he didn't have billions in his pocket, he didn't have any privacy, he did his job, he built the factory and he built the city. That's how important Ironworks are to us. The municipality's trying, and we didn't give you a suggestion, so we put it on the table, how to help the Ironworks. There were proposals that would cost money, proposals that would have been free. You didn't do anything. They did nothing when the collective agreement was terminated in an unprecedented manner. They have done nothing, and they do nothing to this day, when they see that the workers have been paid in two instalments for a long, long month. They do nothing when uncertainty forces more and more people to leave the factory. There's a fantasy in that factory. In addition to repeating myself, it ensures the existence of 4500 Hungarian workers, providing the livelihood of ten thousand families. He's the largest employer in our business. The international demand for products manufactured in the factory is high. So the company has a fantasy. You should just stand there, say encouraging words to the workers, propose a solution, or, as a state to the state, contact the Russian Velesekonombam and help clear the ownership background so that the sale is easy. But instead, what are you doing in and around Dunaújváros? They want to stop the Mayor of Budapest. That's what I had to do. That's what I had to do. I say many times that I'm fine down in Dunaújváros, so I'm not stinging to sound my voice here, but believe me, they're giving me enough drugs to do everything I can to keep their representative from coming back in 2022, and to make a change of government, because believe me, we're gonna do a lot better than that. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-10-18-237	Thank you very much. After the day, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-day speech:. Clean water in the glass and bathtub in Szőlősgyörök! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remember, for some thought here in Parliament, the success of this pre-election, which has come to an end in the last few days. Indeed, we can talk about success, as more than 800,000 Hungarian citizens have expressed their views and decided who will be the challenger and, if possible, the conqueror of the representatives of Fidesz next spring. He has decided who will represent our regions, who will represent our country. Therefore, thank you very much to all the people who have personally participated and voted at our tents despite the cold weather in autumn, and also to those who have done this online, thank you for the participants in the organisation of the pre-election, the ballot counters and everyone who have contributed to this success. Not least, congratulations to the winners, congratulations to our joint Prime Minister candidate, Péter Márki-Zay. Dear Parliament, In my smaller country, Somogyország, and especially in Szőlsgyörök, the supply of drinking water is not a success story either, to put it mildly. In 2013, more than 300 million forints were spent to renovate the well providing drinking water insurance for Poland and its region, but this did not go very well. More precisely, it succeeded in a terrible way, although the promise was that the investment would minimise the harmful content of fixed drinking water, establishing the long-term right of those living here to a healthy life and to a healthy environment. This was the promise, and more than 300 million forints were spent, and yet during the summer months, this well is not able to provide for the increased amount of water, including the drinking water needs of people living in the vineyards. However, the Hungarian Fundamental Law also provides that everyone has the right to a healthy life, a healthy environment, including access to healthy drinking water. On the other hand, more summers have passed in Szőlősgyörök since the water from the Györök well, which smells of brownish, black, carbon-like sediment, is flowing from the taps through the broken water pipes. It is not advisable to consume this water anyway, but it is not advisable to drink it, but to bathe in it, wash dishes with it. It destroys the boilers, it destroys the pipelines, it has caused a lot of inconvenience to people, and all by paying the water charge, the canal fee, and the vineyards, but if they want healthy water, they have no choice but to buy bottled water in the shops. [[18.10]] Well, over a year ago, I drew the government's attention to this problem, and they didn't give me an answer. Therefore, I asked Mr. Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, who, in fact, spread out his hands and called on me to ask the municipality about the solution of the problem, they provided the money earlier; I would add that this is only partly true, because this unfortunate and unsuccessful development was made from European Union resources. I would like to, and I would fight to avoid throwing this responsibility like a ping-pong ball, because according to some surveys it would cost only HUF 50 million to expand the capacity of the Polish well. The second alternative is the renovation of the vineyard well, for which there is no cost calculation, but I assume that, since it is owned by the municipality, the municipality will not be able to cover it. So the question remains that the Government of Hungary is willing to spend money to finally get clean water into the glass of the people of György. I very much hope that this will happen soon, and I am sure that this will be a priority for the new government, and we will also benefit the people of the vineyards, the people of Somogy, because access to healthy drinking water is a fundamental right. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-18-239	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Ms Anett Bősz, representative of DK asked for a speech with the title 'Gondolatok' about the Nest Children's Association in Érd and the Day of Children in Public Care. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-240	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the last parliamentary day, a day has passed with us that has been offered as a noble cause for the benefit of those involved. October 7 was made a day for children living in public care by civilians and other organisations who launched a media campaign to pay more attention to an increasingly growing social group, an invisible social group in Hungary, who are growing up as children but not as a family. Today, nearly 23,000 children live in state care, and another 140,000 children are in danger of being taken out of the family at any time. Most children are treated for abuse, neglect, addiction, illness, or death. As a regular supporter of the SOS Children's Villages and as a man who has spoken in order to build the institution of adoption more rationally and empathically in this country, I must say that I can support this initiative far-reaching. The other day, a couple who had tried to adopt for more than a decade, and imagine that this more than 140,000 children had threatened to take them out of their families, and tens of thousands of others wanted a loving family, did not receive an adopted child, or even a phone to see someone who might be waiting for them. I pay tribute to those who temporarily, such as the Nest Children's Association in the Érd, have the greatest love for the small and the great, so that they can return to their biological families as soon as possible. In such cases, parents are helped to take care of their children as soon as possible, to get past their rehab courses, to overcome temporary difficulties in payment, to overcome crises that are not good for their children, and therefore to have the greatest respect for the Nest Children's Association and, of course, all those who are doing for these children. SOS is in Children's Villages and other institutions where children grow up without ever having a family. They serve as an amazing service for children who have not been given to grow up with parents and brothers. I therefore find the media cooperation that would like to devote 7 October to these children and their protectors to be far-reaching. And we must also talk about the fact that young people, who live in public care from a very small age, will often be regular visitors to social and homeless establishments. They are called by professionals as if they were born homeless. This means not only lost fates and lost lives, lost adulthood, lost childhood, but also a loss for partners, for the luckier social groups, because we do not know people who have had a longer journey to get a roof over their own heads, we do not know people who did not know what kind of family they were growing up to, but who eventually became successful family mothers, successful family fathers, successful workers and members of society who are willing to do it for all of us, but above all for themselves. This will not only harm those who need to be cared for forever because they have lost their families as children, but also those who are luckier and grow up in families. Days such as the Day of Children in Public Care are the best opportunity for us to look not only towards those who have more empathy and expertise, but, for example, towards the institution of adoption, towards people who have been trying for a long time to have a biological child, and then, after a while, they decide to be more heartlike, to be someone who has longed for parents, just as they have longed for a child, and to find each other. Indeed, a well-functioning, efficient institutional system can serve this well, and it can help us to become a family, and we can finally see success stories like those that, as an otherwise adoptive parent, my fellow Members here shared with us when we talked about adoption, so that there may be people who can hear it all their lives, that, yes, I have adopted you, and that means that I will love you forever. So let us pay attention to those who are in the care of the state, pay attention to those who only need temporary care, and they must be important not only to the government, but also to the entire Hungarian society. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-18-241	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik, an independent representative, called "About the Civil Hungary" came forward. Here you go.
u2021-10-18-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House of Parliament, Hungary's first opposition election has taken place in recent weeks, and the lessons learned are relatively easy to draw. On the one hand, there is an amazing demand, especially among young people, for political generation change, for real change. The voters have made it clear that they do not request either from Viktor Orbán's robbery government or from the disaster government before 2010. They also told these voters that they were sick of it and that they were bored to death with the world of political sects, political dogs and outdated politicians. Sunday evening we had a glimpse of the world in which we could all live. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members who are not sitting in the Chamber right now to ask themselves how much more we could have done for the real change if there had been clear conditions in the first round if there had been real competition in the first round if they hadn't eliminated the civilian candidates if they hadn't allowed DK's blackmail, so that instead of two turns, the pre-election rounds that elected the local candidates would have been one turn. What happened was that the pre-election, which initially started as a classic, old-wing party, wore all the unpleasant consequences of the musty, stale-smelling party offices, the withdrawal or not of the pre-arranged candidates negotiated by the parties. [[18.20]] But then what happened, ladies and gentlemen, was that Péter Márki-Zay came and apparently hundreds of thousands of young people had hacked this left-wing party into an opposition pre-election. And it was very strange or comical to watch the polls on Sunday night, where they were shoving around, elbowing each other with opposition politicians, who a few days or a few weeks ago weren't even in the tree line to get everyone to the stage and get some spotlight. You could see the forced smile on the faces of people who were not really flag bearers of the revolution that Peter Márki-Zay proclaimed, but sufferers. They were just like, if this revolution can't be stopped and beaten, at least they're trying to take the lead. On behalf of the Civil Reply Movement, I can congratulate Péter Márki-Zay for his fantastic political achievement over the last few weeks. He's got a tough, hard time ahead of him. Not enough to stand up to the Fides, but he will have to keep looking over his shoulder to see that the people who were struggling a few days ago to fit on stage are really behind him. In addition to many clean-eyed, honest, committed opposition politicians who want to benefit their country, they will, unfortunately, have to fight those principles as underwear, in the corrupt swamp of the NER with several business-related politicians who will also struggle to fit on the lists and get on that stage. And we have to face it honestly. It cannot be said at the same time that we will replace the opposition and that we need everyone to join forces, and only together can we succeed. The exact opposite of that is that we can only succeed without them if we want to make a real difference. And let us not believe that because it is an illusion to believe that last night there was a change of opposition. We've only taken step zero. Hungary has a chance not only to get rid of the government, but also to become a real political renewal. But for this chance to become a reality, it will be shown by the development of the next weeks and months. In the meantime, in the political community of the Civil Reply, we continue to struggle to ensure that this change, the revolution of the cleans, announced by Péter Márki-Zay and voted by Péter Márki-Zay's voters and supporters do not stop halfway. We are building a community that represents a purely future against the forces of the past; it is able to transcend the ferocious, hateful and yet lifelong political sects that have fought uncompromisingly against the pension-demagogy that has been putting Hungary to rest for decades and represents the interests of young people, intellectuals, middle class and university students; which once again raises the flag of the bourgeois Hungary that the Fidesz has thrown away and the left has never carried. This is our mission, and we're ready for the task. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-18-243	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. Goodbye.
