u2021-09-21-0	Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Sándor Szabó will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Presentations before the agenda will now take place. Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán likes to show himself to a commanding general who will go to war against an enemy that threatens the country. This is what he did in 2011 when he announced the fight against sovereign debt. Perhaps even you, my fellow pro-government Members, remember that you said, I quote: "A nation can be conquered in two ways, with a sword or debt. And the commanding general was right, our Prime Minister, because at the end of 2010, the debt-to-GDP ratio was extremely high, 80.2 percent, well above the Maastricht 60 percent threshold. But after ten years, at the end of 2020, the debt-to-GDP ratio was 80.4 percent, i.e. nothing could be cut off from the high value of the previous period. But let us not be unfair, let us count on the fact that in 2020 there was a Covid epidemic, so we could also be indebted to the crisis. In 2021, however, the Hungarian economy had already split again, with GDP rising by 17.7 percent in the second quarter. Experts say that GDP growth will be above 6 and even 7 percent per year. And the debt-to-GDP ratio? Well, after the temporary decrease, just after last week's record-sized issue of foreign exchange bonds, this rose to over 80 percent. Prime Minister, it should be announced that despite 11 years of unbroken combat, the battle has been lost, debt wins, victory over our economy. This victory is a very big one, because if we were to count that the Orbán government had used the amount of private pension funds, cash savings to 10 per cent of GDP, as well as the EU grants of 4-5 per cent per year, if we took them out of the funding, we would find that the debt/GDP ratio would be around 150 per cent, i.e. about one and a half times our one-year GDP. This would certainly make us the first in the European Union. The Fidesz polling camp often uses the figure of speech that our dear, good Prime Minister and our dear good government. I fully agree with this, and I can say exactly how expensive it is, because at the end of 2010, the debt was HUF 21 794 billion, now that we have taken on the bond loan of 1600 billion, we get a figure of over 41,000 billion. This means, by the way, that our debt has increased by 20 000 billion over these 11 years, and the Orbán government has managed to double its debt. If we divide this 20,000 billion into 11 years, we get that every minute our debt increases by HUF 3.5 million. So while I'm making this little five-minute speech, you, your government, have charged the taxpayers with $17.5 million. [[Dr. Pál Völner: And the inherited debt?]] So that's how expensive the Orbán regime is for us. So the task for the opposition, I think, is quite obvious and clear: we urgently need to get rid of the Fidesz government that has fallen into the disease of fiscal alcoholism. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas announced that he would take on more credit! You're talking about Christmas!]] No later than the spring of 2022, of course, because taxpayers will no longer be able to finance this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas announced that more credit would be required!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-21-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-21-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, I was pleased to hear the part of your speech in which you expressed your view of the otherwise conservative economic philosophy that the smaller the country's debt is, the better and the bigger it is, the worse it is. I just don't understand why you're sitting on that side of the parliamentary horseshoe, not on this side. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So this is what I cannot put together with the previous statement, because, as you said very well, the economic policy between 2002 and 2010 had just failed, on the one hand, to indebt the country before the crisis, while there was a economic activity in the world economy, while increasing the level of indebtedness, on the other hand, creating an unhealthy economic structure in which this debt was not supported by work, capacity, economic growth, but was built on aid, and when the crisis struck, there were no welfare measures, no measures to create jobs, no measures to encourage investment, but a further degree of debt was about financing the political system. So it was a type of debt that pushed the country to the bottom of the abyss. On the other hand, as you said after 2010, the Fundamental Law, which you and your fellow parties are talking about should be thrown into a trash can, first included in the world debt rules, which said that, with the exception of a permanent decline in the world economy as an exceptional situation, a budget cannot be adopted in Hungary that does not result in a reduction in public debt. This was something that governments before 2010, although there was no constitutional rule, or perhaps because of that, could not have fulfilled once. After 2010, we have always been able to comply with this rule, and that is why we have been able to make a proper out of the level of public debt. Of course, when there is a global economic crisis, we are not alone in the world, so it is worth looking around, it is worth comparing with Eurostat data, it is worth comparing the situation in Hungary with the situation in other EU countries, we need to stimulate the economies, everyone collects resources for this, every state is actively interfering, and let us see how Hungary's positions stand in this respect. We see that Hungary's positions are not bad in a regional comparison. For example, look at the extent of Austria's debt, or look at the degree of debt in the southern countries for which the EU recovery fund had to be created at all, France's numbers, Greece's numbers. Countries with serious problems, which are also eurozone members, are not only a threat to their own budgetary stability, but also to the budgetary stability of the euro area as a whole. On the other hand, Hungary, taking the opportunity to raise funds from the market here, the issue of bonds mentioned by you shows that the confidence of market participants in Hungary is unbroken, and this was not the case before 2010, and we have used resources from the market for economic recovery, job creation and investment promotion. [[9.10]] Thanks to this economic policy, today, one and a half years after the outbreak of the Crown Virus, we can say that we have returned to the level of economic performance before the crisis. Before 2010, in the crisis of 2008-2009, where were we at this time? There was no such horizon. Then we talked about how to avoid bankruptcy. Moreover, the Fiscal Council is in operation, and we have just had a meeting of the Fiscal Council, and they are the guarantee that if Hungary finds its way back to economic growth, then the rule of the sovereign debt brake laid down in the Constitution will also apply. I can respectfully inform you that it will prevail. Finally, I would like to return to my initial question: I do not understand what you are doing on that side of the Parliament horseshoe. I don't think the voters in Baranya understand either. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-4	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group, also submitted a pre-meeting address on the issue of domestic and school violence. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-21-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I have brought this subject to Parliament, because it has a sad topicality, because in recent times, news of a family tragedy has been read, and unfortunately, of the suicide of a student who was bullied at a school. There are a lot of these topics, lots of hidden cases, we know. Unfortunately, I also know of abusers who have had to endure a form of inter-relationship violence on a regular basis in the past or even today. There are a lot of children who are abused at home, who have inadequate circumstances, we know. They tightened up the law, which I found very good, and I supported it, but I think it's not enough in this situation. We should do much more - society, the government, the parliament, the legislation against these cases, and prevention should be given much greater care. There are no words to a mother's feelings when she needs to know that her son committed suicide because of regular school abuse or harassment. And then we didn't talk about the online harassment, the abuse of each other, the different adjectives that even politicians get on both sides. I think that we need to take urgent action, and that we will therefore present another bill and a proposal for a resolution, in case it will give you any thought and take more steps to prevent these cases, especially because of children, because the child is the first, as we know. I would be very pleased if the legislation would accept that people who regularly use violence could be subject to some kind of psychotherapy treatment or other decoy treatment, group therapy, to a decision on the degree and nature of therapy that would be sent to. Let's just think that those who are caught in a DUI will also be sent to a kind of hijacking therapy that should also be applied in these cases, of course at cost. So I'm not saying that the state finances this, I'm saying that either as a set punishment or in the event of parole, or in any event, if such an act is discovered, and this goes to court, let's say that these people are sent to treatment, because the abuser, whatever he receives, will abuse his partner, if any, turn against children. Now you don't have to tell you, because they read newspapers, and there is a website that deals with this, where children describe as adults how they were abused in their childhood, whether by family members, neighbors or by anyone. But I simply think that much more needs to be done for this prevention. For example, there are social advertisements that could draw attention to this, since domestic or domestic violence is not a private matter. It's not personal, and the victim isn't alone. Of course, it should also be said that victims also need help. School psychologists have too many children. In many cases, they can barely solve it. I'm sure there's not enough school psychologists, but then we'd have to increase their numbers with some sort of incentive. For example, a scholarship programme could help young people to learn school psychologists, and their wages should also be put in shape and increased in order to carry out this task. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think there is quite a problem in this regard, especially now, after the pandemic, mental illness has increased, and we need to do something urgently. We can never stop this until there's a single case like this. I know what I'm saying is dreamy, but it's important to strive to reduce the number of these acts of violence both in school and in families or in relationships, because the victim is not alone, we are not leaving them alone, you are not leaving them alone. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-21-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank the congresswoman for the fact that in her comments I always feel the willingness to help, and indeed the fact that we are talking about the fallen, about wanting to improve, so we are not, in fact, getting involved in a political debate, which unfortunately happens in many other cases. The Congresswoman was also in this House when she was like this, so to speak, after severe tragedies, the Ministry of Justice prepared a package when we tried to regulate the criminal part of this matter by perhaps creating the strictest regulatory system for offenders in Europe, who were involved in relationship violence or even serious crimes, and have areas where others are threatened in their environment, victims. We know that we have excluded these people from parole here, for example, in the case of crimes against life, in order to achieve a longer period of prison prevention. It's the meanest and easiest way, but obviously it doesn't solve the basic problem. Then, in the case of crimes committed more widely to the harm of relatives, the court may only authorise such crimes on the basis of an exceptionally thorough examination, on the basis of an individual consideration, and in the case of serious crimes against persons, compulsory protective supervision is linked to the post-jail period, and there is also a requirement to establish a code of conduct for the protection of victims, including retention. In the case of minor offences committed to the harm of relatives, it is also mandatory to impose protective supervision in the event of suspension. We also use decision-support instruments for granting conditional release. Here, the correctional institute must add to the submission a summary report of the sentenced person, a psychiatrist's and specialist's opinion on his mental state in the case of a convicted person with a limited set-off capacity, and the probation worker may also ask the victim for clarification when he prepares his opinion, so the other party will be heard to ensure that those aspects are respected. In the Health Act, we also provide for a compulsory psychiatric treatment to be initiated by an unsub with a limited set-off capacity. The same applies if the prisoner's mental state is later subject to a change of degree that justifies it. So the Ministry of Justice is also fighting against criminal law. But what, by the way, is necessary for most of the cases raised from the side of prevention or vision? In 2018-19, 5 new crisis centers were established in order to deal with the violence in connection with the existing 15; 19 so-called halfway houses, next to the existing 6; 7 crisis clinics and 7 secret shelters were created next to the existing 1. The National Crisis Management Information Telephone Service also receives calls from all over the country 24 hours a day. We also help victims of human trafficking. [[9.20]] All with state aid. Currently, there are three such institutions with 12-12 seats, including 2 so-called halfway houses, which provide accommodation for victims for up to five years. We know that the Hungarian Ministry of Justice operates victim support centers, we are creating more and more now in Eger. But all the proposals that the congresswoman has mentioned about how we can be more effective, how we can integrate elements into the legal system, whether through the school system or through the help of existing or new institutions, to make progress in this area, are what we look forward to. I promise you, we're gonna deal with this seriously. There has been peace in this area so far, because we have a common interest, and it cannot be the subject of politics that victims should not be victims, and if there are, their help should be maximum. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-8	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Oláh, DK Group, spoke with the title of Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The first three waves of the epidemic showed that the government, in addition to the epidemic, had sent its troops to fight the local authorities. Contrary to, say, Germany and Austria, where the municipalities received additional resources, given that they are still much closer to the people than the government, the government did not give extra resources here, but went towards the withdrawal of funds specifically. But not only did he draw funds, he kept secrets from the municipalities. You, honourable government, refused to disclose to the municipalities how many people were sick in the territory of that municipality, how many people died, how many people got the disease and how many people were vaccinated. You, please, have kept secrets, withheld information all along, and, of course, have also harmed the fight against the epidemic. We know that there was little money, so little money, that you can vote for the 70 billion for the hunting exhibition. Now we are looking again at an extension of the emergency, and the rhetorical question is right that the government wants to return the abstract resources to the municipalities. Will the government finally not distinguish the municipalities from being oppositional or pro-government, but from providing funds for something, will the opposition authorities also benefit from these resources? But like I said, that was a rhetorical question. The real question is that you want further withdrawals, prepared with a secret source withdrawal recipe, respected government, respected Fidesz MEPs. There is also a very serious problem with this emergency. Here were the August 20 celebrations, the Pope's successful visit to Budapest, and the hunter's exhibition is announced on huge posters, but you have banned voting, honourable government. You have banned democracy because you do not allow interim elections. An interim election cannot be held in Hungary today. What is the reason why celebrations on 20 August are allowed, hunting exhibitions are allowed, but interim elections are banned at the same time? Why do they not allow people to express their will, finally vote, and democracy to prevail during the interim elections? With all due respect to the surprised faces, I see that you are now faced with the fact that there can be no interim election, so with great respect, I ask you to amend the regulation that the interim election is prohibited. I think the right of people who can't choose this time of year is being violated. Once again, you can go to a hunting exhibition, there is no need for it, hundreds of thousands of August 20 celebrations can be held, but a small municipal, district or small settlement interim election is not allowed. I ask that you wish to amend this, to allow people to exercise their democratic rights, or that you only need to have the hunting exhibition, but it is not interesting to be able to exercise their democratic rights. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-21-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the situation of the municipalities is concerned, I see a huge difference between the attitude of the government and the attitude of the left-wing authorities. We were indeed involved in a difficult epidemic, in economic difficulties, and we saw that left-wing authorities did not want to take part in the fight against the epidemic. Instead, they tried to create political battle stations in individual municipalities, even claiming that they did not have enough resources if the reality completely contradicted it. Allow me to bring you some numbers to support that. Local governments received 17 percent more resources than last year, and at that time I did not even talk about targeted development resources. And this government started its activities by taking over 1,400 billion debts from the municipalities. This is a debt, honourable Member, which you have brought together during the time of left-wing governance. If you mean business tax revenues, where it would indeed have been expected that left-wing authorities would have supported a common burden sharing in the control of the epidemic, so if I look at the business tax, I see that there has been a 50 percent increase in the industrial tax revenue of the municipalities, Budapest, between 2014-19, and under these circumstances you say that there has been a withdrawal of funds. So not only did the government, the state, take over the debt of the municipalities put in a difficult position by the left, but they could even increase their tax revenues, i.e. their financial room for manoeuvre improved. He says everything about this, that Budapest is sitting on more than HUF 100 billion in funds, of course, in different instruments, but it has a margin of manoeuvre, compared to that, we have heard nothing but lamentation about how and why Budapest cannot participate in the epidemiological defense. This ship has already sailed, honourable Member, and we have overcome three waves that left-wing municipalities and the capital have not taken part in the fight against the epidemic at all. Of course, there was a much more serious case, such as going against the vaccines. Even yesterday, there was a left-wing speech that was highly incontrovertible to certain types of vaccine. It's not a job, it's not right, honourable Member. As far as general economic measures are concerned, you were talking about withdrawals. I don't have much of an illusion. What I see is that despite the announcement yesterday by the Prime Minister of anything that helps millions of Hungarians, it represents support and you ignore it. It is really difficult to have any dialogue in this way, that not only do we not expect you to praise the measures, it is never the opposition's job, but the fundamental facts are not taken into account and their own voters are also misinformed. I would like to ask you: when a decision is made that is not about withdrawal, will you at all inform your own voters about it? Like how the government extended the credit moratorium? Or that we've decided on a family tax refund? This alone affects more than 1 million families and represents hundreds of thousands of refunds. The whole year's paid taxes can be returned to the families. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You will only give back something you have taken from them!]] The government also supports the increase of the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, only the agreement between employers and employees is needed, but for its part the government provides all the support. The pension premium can exceed HUF 50,000, plus we can give back two weeks of what you took from your 13th month pension. So we could basically list hours of measures that are not about withdrawal, as you said, but support for many generations, many social groups, so that the municipalities mentioned by you would have room for manoeuvre in order to give all the support to the people living on the ground. What, on the other hand, do you have in mind other than the fake news campaign? The same recipe that's already broken. If we listen a little bit more to something called the primary, then we hear one thing out of it: tax increases, family support cuts, retirement, pension cuts and the relaxation of employment incentives. I am sorry that the municipalities support this policy. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: The question about the interim election has not been answered!]] And what has become of it under their government? Technically, it's an economic meltdown. We don't want to see this again. [[9.30]] As far as interim elections are concerned, I do not know where this has come up as a specific need to investigate. The rules are clear and clear in the pre-election period. And by the way, I think it's all a distraction. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that they couldn't even organise their own pre-elections properly. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Lajos Oláh: Midterm election! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]]
u2021-09-21-12	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Shame! Shame! Dr. Bence Rétvári: More bitcoin!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please continue your dialogue elsewhere, not at the moment. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-13	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Yesterday we listened to the Prime Minister, we listened to you [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] I would have expected the Prime Minister to talk about the things that have a major impact on Hungarian families in Hungary today. I would have expected Mr Orbán to start by answering some questions. The price of wood was 160 percent higher in Hungary according to a survey, and not only according to the survey; the price of petrol at the new historic peak, the price of gas oil is still higher, the price of both reaches 457 forints this week; the purchase of the license increased by 10 percent in just one year; the rate of inflation reappears so that some headlines from the past few weeks are less and less likely to be covered with the crown. After the outbreak of the Crown Virus, inflation started to rise in the spring, and after more than eight years, the rate of increase rose to more than 5 percent. Hungarian inflation has been one of the highest values in the European Union's Member States for months, with lower price increases everywhere in the surrounding countries. According to the latest data from KSH, consumer prices were on average 4.9 percent higher than a year earlier in August 2021, and inflation is predicted to be above 5.3 percent in the area of November and December. Ladies and gentlemen, If a family goes shopping today, they face the extent to which food prices increase day by day, month by month. You know, cauliflower soup is slowly more expensive to cook than a stew. We always talk about how to feed healthy and well for Hungarian children and families, just know there's nothing to eat. I don't know how you've been to the store or the market lately. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] How Hungarian families can buy fruit and basic food today. In recent months, we have seen a drastic increase in the prices of vegetables and fruits, the highest price increase being shown by food oil, with an annual price increase of over 30 per cent, even in August. The work meal increased by 9.2 percent, margarine by 9.1 percent, poultry meat by 8.9 percent, flour by 8.2, buffet goods by 7.2 percent, restaurant food by 7 percent over the past period, and I would also like to mention the brutal increase in petrol and gas oil prices. And you come here every day and sing a hymn about everything in this country, but you don't talk about how to stop this price increase in Hungary. Now, let's talk about the price of building materials. You keep telling me how much you support home-building, housing, renovation, you know, after an announcement like this, we see prices getting out of hand. In January, a cubic meter of wood cost about 100,000 forints, now there is where a cubic meter of wood can be purchased for 260,000 forints in my own area. You know, the support that is now being given in the renovation of the house, the 3 million HUF is not only taken away by the rise, but it is not enough, the price of the building material is much more expensive than the amount of support they give. The president of the Hungarian Competition Authority called the conditions prevailing on the construction material market wild west in Hungary today. Meanwhile, you're talking about rebooting, about getting everyone a raise, and yesterday, the Prime Minister announced the tax refund to the families. You know, they're just giving back what you've been taking. Let's talk about family allowance. In the last 12 years, the family allowance has not increased by a penny in Hungary. They're just giving back what they've taken. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And the family tax relief?]] We could talk about family tax breaks. The family tax relief of single children and three children, since they were introduced, has not increased, the level of support has decreased, if you look at inflation only rapidly. And you are talking about how you support Hungarian families? Well, the smallest number in Hungary is the number of people receiving unemployment benefits, and even in Hungary there are tens of thousands of people who have no benefits anymore. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They don't get one. I think that we should have talked about this yesterday, not only about the well-being of Hungarian families. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's about reality, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2021-09-21-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we are talking about inflation, let us place the Hungarian processes in international processes! If he had also mentioned that inflation is increasing in all the countries of the European Union, and it is true that Hungary is in the first third of the European Union in terms of inflation, for example in Poland 5 percent, Estonia 5 percent, Belgium 4.7 percent or Lithuania 5 percent, so what is happening in Hungary is not an individual case. 'Cause you don't tell me what the reason for that is. Well, obviously the reason there is a pandemic, and there must be appropriate economic action in the pandemic countries, of course, this is different from country to country. Hungary has chosen that keeping jobs is more important than anything else, so it gives support, gives budget support for new investments, tries to increase and strengthen the economy even in times of crisis in Hungarian. One of the effects of this is an increase in inflation. But inflation is increasing not only in the European Union, but also outside the European Union, so it is the same for the United States, where inflation is above 6 percent or let us not talk about Turkey, where it is approaching 20 percent! It is true, however, that inflation, price increases, must be protected and the population saved. You would be right about the dissatisfaction in this speech if you hadn't said a word about how pensions are going, how incomes are going in Hungary; you obviously didn't say anything about it because they have been above inflation for years. The government has no economic means against inflation, its method is a market economy, the law requires the Hungarian National Bank to have a task and an obligation. This does not mean that, of course, the government does not take action indirectly, such as in terms of building material price increases, it has taken the steps that a government could otherwise have taken. Let's go back to how the government defends itself, how it disposes of higher inflation. By providing a higher pension, by supplementing pensions and ensuring the real value of pensions every year since the Fidesz government has been in place since 2010. Not in your time. There was a crisis in your time, but then there was a decrease in real income, a decrease in the value of pensions, and also a decline in the value of pensions. For example, they took away the 13th month pension. I am very pleased that when the Fidesz government submitted that it would return the 13th month pension taken by the MSZP, it would start to rebuild, and you voted for it. This means that you do not agree with the fact that you have acted against the crisis, against inflation, by reducing the incomes of pensioners, by agreeing with the Fidesz regime, and I suggest that you continue to monitor and follow it in the future. [[9.40]] If you monitor the government's actions, such as what it does to counter the price increase, you will give more votes in favour of the government's proposal. How can real income continue to grow since 2013? Believe me, inflation is a problem, it's higher and it's a process, but it would be a much bigger problem if people's incomes didn't increase with it, and there weren't lots of car parks in the stores, because they couldn't park, they had to build a parking lot, because people couldn't fit, so many people were shopping. In English: consumption is also growing, and this indicates that the government will take appropriate steps against rising inflation price increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-16	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group:. Are you listening or listening? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Since July, Hungary's public opinion and Hungarian citizens have been concerned about the fact that it is true that the Hungarian Fidesz government is listening to their mobile phones using Israeli spy software, which is used by otherwise-called "lator states" in an international comparison to monitor their own opposition. No, dear fellow Members, terrorists don't talk on cell phones about where they're going to detonate next time, I'd like to send a message to you. You boycotted the National Security Committee's meetings in July, confession number one. Yesterday, for 30 years, you have encrypted the confession of the National Security Committee 2. If you had nothing to hide in this matter, then the four Fidesz Members would have appeared at their workplace in July, the Minister of the Interior would have appeared at the meeting, the Minister of Justice, who pointed to his secretary of state in the press, and everyone would have said what had happened and reassured Hungarian citizens. No, you didn't make that confession 3. I think that the decision of the European Parliament, in which there has been a great consensus from the far left to your principle friends to the far right, has been condemned by everyone. You, therefore, continue to hinder the National Security Committee, the main committee of Parliament, in order to reassure Hungarian citizens that you are not listening to them. I think that this matter should be appreciated in the process we call the continuous development of the one-party overpowering of Fidesz. I would also like to give you another example of ectantism. The news is sad, because by 11:00 last night, János Halász called an ad hoc committee to vote for members of the Media Council, of which I would be vice-president. Now, let's remember what happened last time. Despite the fact that the five opposition groups agreed that only two opposition members should be elected to the Media Council, you swept this down and even went on, the five opposition groups could agree in advance in just one member, and you also prevented one opposition member from becoming the Media Council that judges living and dead, and then, of course, no wonder what the media situation in our country is like. I would also like to mention that international observers from the OSCE have already stated that they may have been considered free, but in no case fair. After all, a balanced civil democracy, in which we believe in the name of the People's Party Jobbik, works in such a way that a well-informed Hungarian citizen is well-informed, so that a well-informed Hungarian citizen does not make a wise decision about the fate of his country and who leads it. I am sure that, despite the fact that on 7 April 2018 the ugly thing happened, which was difficult for me personally, because my first job was the newspaper of Kisalföld in Sopron, when all the county newspapers, like in the old communist times, I remember it, you too, comrades who were members of the MSZMP, unlike me, appeared with practically the same front page, the same photo of Orbán and the same equator. Well, congratulations. You have achieved greater media freedom in Communist times, towards the end of the 1980s, than at present. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Sit down!]] I have to say that just because someone can still write their opinion doesn't mean freedom of the press, no matter how much our Prime Minister clowns in a kiosk. No, that's not freedom of the press. Freedom of the press is that the only civil weekly, the Hungarian Voice, must be printed in Slovakia because, due to the Fidesz one-party overpower, no Hungarian printer has undertaken to print it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then Katalin Cseh!]] This is for a living on market terms, only on subscribers, and not on Hungarian taxpayers' money. But here's the good news: our future national unity government [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: led by Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] we will also restore media freedom and reassure Hungarian citizens that we will not be listening to them [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány and the rubber bullet! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Because we listen to them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar applauds.]]
u2021-09-21-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, wishes to reply. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, the law is binding on everyone, it is binding on citizens and public authorities alike. The national security services of Hungary carry out their duties in order to protect the independence and constitutional order of our country. Honourable Congressman, Since May 29, 2010, the Hungarian national security services have neither conducted nor conducted illegal surveillance. Public bodies authorised to use concealed assets are regularly controlled by institutions independent of government and government. The National Assembly, assisted by the National Security Committee, shall carry out parliamentary control of national security services. The Ministry of Interior and the services under its direction shall regularly inform the Committee of the activities of the services and of any current national security issues. The management of the Ministry and the management of the services shall regularly respond to the invitation of the Committee on each occasion and on several occasions each year. The National Security Committee is led by a opposition politician and is currently your party partner. Ask, Congressman, whether there was a committee meeting where the government or the staff of the services appeared or did not appear. Please, do it. They showed up every time. As regards yesterday's part of the question, yesterday's closed session of the National Security Committee informed the Minister of the Interior of the issues you mentioned. Honourable Congressman, As far as the media situation is concerned, I would like to say that the media is free in Hungary, please don't say anything else. There is freedom of the press in Hungary. If you look at the media situation, see what media works in Hungary, then you can see that opposition media can also operate freely in Hungary, and the offer of opposition media is rich. Please, for your own self-esteem, Congressman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: The paper is not printed in Hungary!]] do not compare today's relations with those before 1990. If you were working at the Kisalföld newspaper then [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It wasn't then! In '92!]] I don't know what position [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: In '92! Hello?]] But please don't compare today's affairs to that. In Hungary there is freedom of the press, the media is free. I ask you not to deny this for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-20	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda: on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A series of absolutely amazing and coordinated attacks have been launched against our country on the basis of the law on combating pedophiles and child protection adopted during the spring session. [[9.50]] There have been countless unsubstantiated rumors, political accusations about the law, and thousands of lies and slanders. A whole range of Hungarian left-wing and Brussels allies, as well as NGOs serving LGBTQ propaganda, threw a full-blown fire at Hungary because we said that the education of Hungarian children and, in particular, sexual education is exclusively the right of Hungarian parents. We must also state from here that Hungary is committed to child protection and that the issue of children is the most important thing for us. Brussels is trying to get LGBTQ activists into kindergartens and schools, and we refuse to do so. Of course, the attack on the Child Protection Act was again wrapped in a rule of law robe. When their perspectives were sent, it was clear where the wind was blowing, because they tried to attack our country with a harsh legal argument. Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also clearly states that parents have the exclusive right to ensure the education and education of their children in accordance with their religious, philosophical and pedagogical beliefs. And who in the European Parliament is dealing with this matter? It is quite outrageous that, due to a gay revenge porn, the European Parliament has left the case of the Hungarian Child Protection Act to a final two-year sentence. Hungary respects everyone's human dignity. We have nothing to do with how someone lives their lives as an adult, if they comply with the law, but child protection is a state obligation, and we cannot allow it here. It is clear from the foregoing that Brussels considers that their parents' exclusive right to raise their children is overwritten by the interests of international organisations dealing with LGBTQ propaganda. Brussels obviously does not like the fact that we stand up for the protection of our children, and unlike many Western countries, we refuse to allow sexual propaganda into schools. That's why they're using the usual tools: blackmail, threats, procedures. However, we do not back down. Of course, Brussels also uses its Hungarian allies, as the left did not support the Hungarian people in this matter either. András Fekete-Győr, one of the candidates of the left-wing prime minister, said that he would support transgenders teaching education for preschoolers and schoolchildren. That is the position of the left today. In the Bored Left Prime Minister's Candidates' debate, a number of people said that they would immediately repeal the laws adopted by Parliament on combating pedophiles and child protection if they came to government. According to Peter James, such a law is not necessary. Let's be clear. So if it were up to you left-wing representatives, sexuality could be self-proclaimed in kindergartens and schools. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea, spread her arm, "Don't tell me, I agree."]] "Sex change, homosexuality, or even pornography, "to promote it. Shame! We had to stand up for the children because you, along with your allies in Brussels, are willing to turn a bedroom question into a child's room question. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Therefore, the final word on this issue will be for the Hungarian people. Even if Brussels blackmails Hungary by withholding recovery money, there will be a referendum on these issues, not Brussels, but the Hungarian people will be able to decide on the matter. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I would like to point out to Mrs President here on the left, to an independent Member, that, obviously, the left-wing fellow Members have been monitoring the speech of the Member through the screens. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We were sitting here, when we adopted this particular bill, and indeed, this is a strange situation, just as the left didn't take up it, standing by Brussels, the European Union Parliament, which wants to force the Member States of the Union to spread the LGBTQ propaganda without disturbance to minors, even by entering public institutions. You can see practically the kind of profiteering position that we have seen with Gergely Christmas that we are not talking about this right now, right, about migration, but the same position can be seen with them in relation to this law. So what's the law about? On the one hand, pedophile crimes are severely punished. This was also a demand for the left, but this package of laws was not voted on. The other part, which was also raised during the debate on the law, is that they understand that we are punishing it more severely, but why we are not doing so in order to prevent this, we are protecting children from any harmful effects. And then the part of the regulation that serves the protection of minors, which stated that it is only the right of parents to define sexual education, and no organization has the right to advertise sexual content either in kindergartens or in schools that is not part of the curriculum that parents have not asked for and to which parents' consent has not been requested before. After all, as it turned out, which was not yet known in the course of the debate, everyone here has referred to why such a regulation is necessary, since no one knows specific cases. It turns out that in two high schools in Budapest there have been such actions, and in a high school in Budaörs it was actually a transvestite who appeared, and without the parents knowing about it, promoting what excellent doctrines they preach. And the other thing that is most outrageous is that, after the law was passed, which is short enough for anyone, if they could read it, tried to make it appear as if this section on the protection of minors was a paedophile for groups with different identities. It's not that. It is about these groups not being in contact with minors in that form. And if they could see that, and according to fundamental rights, parents have such fundamental rights, so that they can define this kind of educational area, so that their children can benefit from it, then they can also see that, for example, a LGBTQ community or part of it does not have such a fundamental right. As an individual, he has a right, a fundamental right, which he has been able to exercise since he was 18 years of age, to live and to abide by other laws within society as he pleases, and this kind of restriction does not appear in the law. So all the slanders that are also manifest in Brussels, and it is indeed interesting that the Hungarian language says that cabbage is entrusted to a goat, so they entrust such an area to a criminal who has practically committed a crime in this area. How do we expect him to carry out an objective investigation and to establish that we could really do this within the framework of the law, the EU Charter and the Fundamental Law? And to which we will insist, hard and to the end, that this is a matter of national competence. And once again, we are faced with the fact that the European Union Parliament is trying to remove powers from the various decisions and resolutions of the various Member States, and, unfortunately, since Mr Juncker, we know that the European Union Commission is a political committee, so it is no longer a guardian of the law, but a political engagement, this case also proves that they want to decide on a political basis and impose sanctions on Hungary. All we need to think about is the long haul around the reconstruction fund, which has been openly linked to this issue, and this means that there are problems with the functioning of the Union, so if nothing else, this indicates it as litmus paper. What we can say in summary is that this is a national competence, and as long as there is a national government in Hungary, parents will decide on raising their children. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-24	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor. [[János Halász buckles his microphone.]] Take your time, Congressman. We'll count this technical time difference, time delay. I would ask the staff to arrange the clock so that it can be restored when Congressman begins his speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The largest international event in recent weeks has been the withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan. [[10.00]] The military superpower gave up the fight against the Taliban and, surprised by its allies, left the country to its fate quickly. Today, again, chaos and civil war are underway in Afghanistan. According to most analysts, under Taliban rule, the country will once again become a hotbed for Islamists and terrorists. And tens of thousands of people have already left this country and are on their way to Europe. We also see that, without the situation in Afghanistan, the migratory pressure in Europe has increased this year. The Balkan migration route has been refilled and migrants' access has continued to be supported by Soros NGOs with money and organisational assistance. We Hungarians also experience this at our borders. There is also a worrying rise in the number of illegal cross-border attempts in Hungary and the activity of smuggling networks is also increasing. Compared with the last year, the number of illegal immigration attempts has multiplied. Until mid-September 2020, we've stopped 22,000 trespassers. This year, it's 73,617 people. There has also been a significant increase in the number of captured smugglers. By 15 September this year, the number of smugglers caught was 719, a three-fold increase compared to 2020. The trend is clear: Hungary is afraid to prepare for another wave of migration, even during illegal immigration in 2015. At the same time, it is reassuring that the border fence is still in place, and the strict rules of the legal border closure remain in place. We could also count on the exemplary service of our police and soldiers, who will do their best to guarantee the stability, sovereignty and security of our country. Thank you for your sacrifice, your service. Dear House, It is also clear from the results of the recent national consultation that the government can continue to rely on the support of the Hungarian people in their fight against illegal migration. One million 423,000 people completed the questionnaire for the national consultation. 98 percent of respondents agree that an epidemiological migrant stop is needed for the two years after the outbreak and that borders should be completely closed for migrants because they can introduce new viral mutations in Hungary. Even greater, 99 percent agree that there is still no need for compulsory distribution of migrants and that it is not possible to force migrants into any country. Dear House, Unfortunately, the opposition has also attacked this national consultation as usual. Remember, there wasn't a national consultation that didn't involve even feet. They even attacked the consultation on families, and some of their representatives even went to the point of openly tearing up the consultation sheets. What is even more outrageous and dangerous is that, in addition to the consultation, the defence against illegal migration is constantly being attacked by the entire left, and even still openly pro-immigration. The Gyurcsánys constantly criticize border protection measures, break down the fence and let migrants in. It seems that on the left they do not want to acknowledge that the Hungarians have already said no to immigration. We remember very well when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that Hungary would benefit greatly if he accepted immigrants. And we can see that nothing on the left has changed. A few weeks ago, Gergely Christmas fell when she told a German liberal magazine that they were still pro-immigration, but they should not campaign in Hungary. We Hungarians don't want any of this. Such statements repeatedly prove that the protection of the country cannot be left to the left. To guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, we must stop Gyurcsány and Christmas. The government can count on the Fidesz fraction in the fight against illegal immigration. With the full force of our artwork, you stand by the government in this matter as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that Hungary must be protected and Europe protected. The American failure in Afghanistan has created a situation that could result in millions of migrant waves in the period ahead. Hungary's position is clear. Afghans leaving their countries must be kept in the region and not brought to Europe. Hotspots and refugee camps must be set up not within European borders but outside them, help must be brought there, and not to bring trouble to Europe. Dear Parliament, This year too, especially in recent weeks, the number of illegal cross-border attempts has increased significantly on the Hungarian border sections. This year more than 76,000 migrants were captured at the Hungarian border, more than three times that of a year ago. The number of captured smugglers tripled. The strengthening of the refugee wave carries the risk that terrorists and Islamist extremists in the crowd can enter Europe. In contrast to the left led by Gyurcsány, the government represents the interests of the Hungarian people and does not allow us to be forced into the compulsory resettlement quota of migrants. The only solution in the European Union to address migration is to give the right of treatment back to the Member States. The Hungarian government continues to pursue a clear policy: we do not allow migrants in, we maintain the border fence and we ensure border protection. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We also take the strong position in the Brussels debates that we reject the resettlement of migrants. The national government won't let them turn our country into an immigrant country. We protect the Hungarian borders. 98 percent of respondents to the national consultation also reject the mandatory distribution of migrants and consider the migration policy of the Hungarian government to be correct. We need a strong police and military presence at all times to ensure border protection. Since migratory pressure on the southern border will continue to increase significantly, new forces may need to be transferred to border protection. I would also like to emphasise here that the police and soldiers are working together to protect the borders, and the Government of Hungary can, if necessary, provide the necessary force to protect the Hungarian southern border as it has done before. And allow me, honourable Member, honourable Parliament, to thank the police and soldiers at our borders, their often trying service ensures the safety of all of us, and we can say that Hungary is a safe country, one of the safest countries in the world and Europe. Due to the migratory pressure on the Hungarian border and the events in Afghanistan, the government extended the rules of the crisis caused by mass immigration by six months. The government continues to provide sources of countering illegal migration. I would also like to remind the honourable Parliament here that in the 2022 budget, which we adopted this summer, the necessary resources are provided by the government. This year, too, we have the resources to do so, and in 2022, we also have the resources to fight illegal migration. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary will always stand up for the protection of Hungarian people, Hungarian homeland and European borders. Thank you to the Fidesz fraction for supporting this fight. We hope that this cooperation will continue to be effective in the future, and that Hungary will remain safe and that Hungary will continue to be one of the safest countries in the European Union and the world. Thank you, honourable Member, for your speech. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill amending Act I of 2021 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic will follow until closure. The government referral is T/17053. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the approved emergency proposal, it is possible to submit amendments until the general debate is concluded. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-21-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Hungary is fighting the Crown Virus pandemic with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes. However, the new viral variants spread across Europe, the delta virus variant bringing the fourth wave of the pandemic is already present in Hungary, therefore increased protection is essential. The Government therefore proposes to extend the scope of the Coronary Virus Plague Protection Act until 1 January 2022. [[10.10]] The general justification of the proposal also states that, if the epidemic situation permits, the government will initiate the lifting of the emergency situation before the law expires. The basic goal of the government is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to make a swift and effective decision. Thanks to one of the most successful vaccination programmes in Europe and the world, some 5 859 814 people were vaccinated in Hungary until 20 December 2021, of which more than 5 553 346 were already vaccinated at the second dose. At the end of July this year, Hungary was the first to allow third vaccination against the corona virus in Europe, with the possibility of having more than 525,000 individuals until 15 September 2021. Taking into account the recommendations of the World Health Organization and Hungarian medical scientists, epidemiological experts and international examples, we also allowed children and minors under 18 years of age to be vaccinated in Hungary. The reason for this is to prevent the development of pandemics in public education and education institutions, as the new virus variants can unfortunately pose a risk to the health of children and young people. 185 000 of the students made use of the vaccine against the corona virus in summer, so almost 40 percent of the Hungarian students were immunized against the corona virus before starting school this summer. Hungary will continue to provide free free vaccination for the population and a new vaccination campaign will be launched soon. Dear House, Due to strict protection and the use of effective vaccinations, the impact of the epidemic is more moderate, but the Covid-19 pandemic has claimed more than 4.6 million human casualties worldwide in just a year and a half. In the case of the delta virus variant, it is regrettable that the average age of uninoculated people, those who are in need of hospitalisation and those who have died is also decreasing, so the risk of developing a serious or moderate infection in adolescents and young adults who are not treated with chronic disease is not negligible. Therefore, vaccines are now the only effective means of effective control of the coronal viral pandemic instead of quarantine, compulsory masking. In the area of emergency protection measures, the government shall follow the principles of gradualness and proportionality. We are monitoring the measures applied by other European countries, we are taking good practices and we are learning from deterrent examples. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In order for the Government to be able to take all the measures necessary for effective defence in a timely manner, it is necessary to adopt this bill as soon as possible, and I therefore ask with respect that you support the proposal. Thank you for your attention and for the support of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-30	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government announced an extraordinary legal order, the deadline expires on 15 October and requested an extension until 1 January, for a total of two and a half months. I believe that we have two years behind us that have accumulated a great deal of experience and that we want to make use of these experiences in the next period. Here, both in Parliament and in the country, there was a lot of debate about all the virus treatment used by the operational tribe and the government. I believe that one of the best countries in Europe and the world has handled everything that has fallen on us recently. There was a lot of debate about where to use a mask, the good restrictions, the time limits when we couldn't leave our homes or institutions, whether they were right. It was indeed a difficult time, since there has not been a curfew since World War II. But what we have seen is that people, citizens, and all those who were entrusted with the treatment of the virus have behaved and worked exemplaryly. I'm thinking about doctors, nurses, police, education, commerce, agriculture. It is just a detour on agriculture: if we do not sow and harvest in agriculture, we cannot eat, because wheat must be sown, harvested and grinded to enable us to eat next year. They had to do this by losing a lot of people. It was a very interesting time for these two years, and they hurt us a lot from the opposition side, why we took the steps we took, why we got a vaccine from what they thought we shouldn't have. I think that in recent years we have never questioned where a vaccine comes from, we have not researched the origins of a medicine, but now it is strengthened, and I think that the operational tribe, the government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has made the right decision to bring vaccines from anywhere in the world in order for as few people as possible to die. The past period has shown us that we have made the right decision, because this year the country can make some 7 percent economic growth because it has gained benefits that neither Europe nor any other country in the world has been able to deliver. The Secretary of State has just indicated here that some 5.8 million people have already been vaccinated. We have a very big request for the other citizens, because there are only 400 thousand of our countrymen over the age of 60 who have not been vaccinated yet, and we would also like to use vaccinations in the downstream age groups. If we can do this, we can realize that there will be no infection like the first, second or third wave. What has happened recently is also due to the fact that the government has been tasked with making a decision quickly and in a matter of moments. The decision mechanism for the committees to negotiate, bring it to Parliament, and Parliament will decide does not allow for immediate rapid assistance, so I also ask the parliamentary parties, the opposition, to help us to vote unitedly for the extension of this legal order, and then we will be able to say next year that Hungary is one of the first countries to get out of this huge problem and problem. I trust that opposition parties will also feel the responsibility and make the right decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, but he is not in the Chamber, so we will continue our work and give the floor... After I cannot give it to the opposition representative, because Zita Gurmai is not here, who would be the next Member, so I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[10.20]]
u2021-09-21-33	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been almost a year and a half since the world and Hungary in it have been living in a new era because of the coronal virus epidemic. The past period has completely transformed all of our lives. Today, in the fight against the pandemic, we have broken the third wave of Covid, but the fourth wave is already knocking on our door. This means that the epidemic will have a fourth wave, as shown by the numbers. Therefore, the government proposes to the Parliament to extend the extraordinary legal order until the end of the year. The establishment or maintenance of a special legal order has already proven to have helped to protect against the epidemic and to ensure the sustainability of our country's capacity to act during the pandemic. Ladies and Gentlemen, After three epidemic waves, we know what works against the virus and what doesn't. We can't fight the virus with masks and restrictions, just with the vaccine. That's how we beat the third wave. That's how we can control the fourth wave. If enough of our countrymen are vaccinated, then we don't have to go back to closings, we don't have to go back to using the mask, but we can continue our normal, normal lives. Therefore, I urge everyone here to take the vaccine, because it can also avoid serious diseases and hospitalization. We have enough vaccines in our country, so anyone who wants to can be vaccinated. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the threshold of the fourth wave, due to its unpredictability, it is essential to ensure the possibility of increased and effective protection. The aim of the bill is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs by extending the deadline. Over the past year and a half of the fight against pandemics has demonstrated that the exceptional and temporary legal framework previously adopted has served these objectives well. With the adoption of the bill, effective and rapid decision-making can be ensured in order to provide a flexible response to the difficulties caused by the epidemic. If the epidemic situation allows, the government will initiate the lifting of the emergency situation before the law expires. Ladies and Gentlemen, Under the Fundamental Law, the government can determine the scope of its emergency regulations until the date of the mandate given by Parliament. Under the current legal provision, emergency government regulations will expire on the 15th day following the first day of the autumn session of the National Assembly in 2021, i.e. on 5 October. It is therefore necessary to revise the deadline for the existing authorisation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the T/17053 amending Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-35	[[The screen shows the name of Dr. László György Lukács. The sound system isn't working.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Does it work?
u2021-09-21-36	It's working, yeah.
u2021-09-21-37	Thank you very much for your support. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The content of the proposal before us can be summarised very simply: it is essentially about amending a provision. The majority of the governments amended Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic so that it would expire on the 15th day following the first autumn meeting of the Parliament in spring. This means that the law, including the emergency situation, will expire on 5 October 2021. However, the government does not want this, because it is now proposed that the emergency should last until 1 January 2022, as you say, in order to maintain effective and rapid decision-making. But let's see how we got here. The law on the basis of protection against the epidemic and regulation governance was originally adopted by the Parliament with effect from 90 days in February, i.e. at the end of May, the government would have given up regulation governance. However, this was not the case, because the date was quickly amended so that the emergency would last until the 15th day following the first day of the autumn session, i.e. Viktor Orbán still does not want to release the full power of decision, as the current proposal would push the regulation out of his hands until next year. This is the third time, Honourable Parliament. How determined and foresightful is the government that has already changed the dates three times? Fellow Members! Since February 22, 2021, there has been continuous regulation governance in Hungary, and what has been achieved by it? We have lost more than 30,000 of our countrymen; twice as many victims as we have in Austria. Is that what effective regulation governance means to you? Or is that something else you mean by efficiency? For example, that you can do anything, even by going against the laws. Because what did Fidesz really use regulation governance for? They gave money for things that had nothing to do with disease management: capital increases were made in certain companies and they supported Fidesz organizations. Tell me, what does the construction of the MotoGP track have to do with the control of the epidemic? Or is it called effective anti-pest control that a record amount of foreign currency debt has been paid to the Hungarian families? Just a week ago, the Hungarian state accumulated the biggest debt of all time in one day when the Government Debt Management Centre issued a bond equivalent to some EUR 4.5 billion. Or do you think it's an effective defense to start a war against the authorities? You have done everything you can to ensure that the leadership of the settlements can do nothing about government withdrawal. Therefore, it was stipulated that no new tax could be introduced and that no local service fees could be increased, and even the local business tax was quickly reduced, in order to prevent the municipalities from accidentally developing. The Fidesz settlements, of course, were helped out in the naughty way. How shameful is it that people who didn't vote for Fidesz are being punished in violation of their oaths? ! And, of course, we cannot forget that they have decided to privateise public universities on the basis of the control of the epidemic and to give hundreds of billions of forints of national assets into private hands. Is this what you consider to be effective governance? May I ask the Parliament to continue this? There may be only one eligible element in this proposal, but this is already included in the current law, namely the possibility for the government to eliminate the emergency situation sooner. I think you should use that right as soon as possible. Not on 5 October, but not on 2022, but on the end of the regulation, because you are using the regulation as a club. They are not using this mandate to protect people, but to use it for their own benefit and abuse it for their own political interests. This is in neither Hungary nor the Hungarian people's interest. [[10.30]] Let's end this fidesz amok run, which you call regulation or emergency government. The sooner, the better, since your government will end in the spring of 2022 anyway. Thank you so much for listening. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2021-09-21-38	Dear Parliament, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, who would like to speak now, but who is not in the Chamber. This brings to the floor the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill would, for the fifth time since the outbreak of the fifth Covid Act, the pandemic last spring, make a decision on the basis of which Parliament would decide on the continuation of emergency measures introduced in the Government Decree beyond 15 days. The legal solution used, as if the aim were to avoid even the appearance of consistency, is still different from what has been done so far. This proposal will only rewrite the expiry dates at the beginning of October by 1 January in the Covid Act adopted at the beginning of the year, as if it were just some kind of legal process. However, all of us who are sitting in this room know precisely that, despite the short scope, this is a fundamental decision, which is a formal miscarriage of parliamentarism. However, we all know that the extension of the Bianko legislative mandate granted to the Government is now completely unjustified from the point of view of constitutional and disease control. The continued maintenance of the emergency since 4 November does not require any uncertainty about the fourth wave, as the government can at any time repeat the emergency in the event of an immediate need for measures other than the laws. The Parliament also met continuously during the most serious periods of the first three waves, and we all know that, so the rapid ex post approval of extraordinary measures would obviously be guaranteed now. Moreover, the government's current epidemiological communication is clear that the new closure and the substantial tightening of the rules, which is exactly what the emergency would really serve, are being excluded from the Prime Minister's attention yesterday. Dear House, The government has just spewed the country out of taxpayers' money with the slogan that the country is working. Don't get any illusions. If we have failed to get back to normal parliamentary operation and constitutional law in this working country, we will not succeed in December. The governing parties therefore clearly plan the months preceding the general election for next year so that their government has the opportunity to reach into the functioning of the political system at any time by regulation, and this is obviously the main objective of extending this period. Then the government alone will decide how to initiate a referendum, just as it did in the summer when he wanted one of these; or whether or not to have election meetings; perhaps to depart from the legal order itself. The problem long ago is not that Fidesz is using a truly extraordinary situation to expand its sphere of power, but that the multiple extensions of powers, which we can admit to the Parliament, are beginning to be increasingly humiliating, the foundations of Hungarian parliamentary democracy. A mandate that is included in this bill is not voted by a Member of Parliament who has something to do with it, and we will do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-21-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-09-21-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I arrived a little late, but of course we won't miss the lead speakership. It is also important for the main speaker group to express opinions similar to what we have just heard in the speeches, because it is a bill that affects the coming period, the daily lives of people, legislation and the order of the state in all areas. If you like, we are dealing with one of the most important legal institutions in the next half hour, here in Parliament's walls in an hour. One thing is clear from the bill: Viktor Orbán is steering the country from an emergency to an emergency. This is what has been happening in the past slowly and a half years, and if we look more closely at emergencies, we can also see that in addition to the health emergency, there is another: the immigration emergency. There will soon be more emergencies than normal legislation, the normal situation and the normal state in Hungary. If we have to live in such a country, because such threats threaten us, and a government is constantly prolonging these emergencies and thus carrying out its own special powers, it should be said that this government is not doing its job fairly and is unable to operate the country safely in a normal, fair democracy according to the proper legal order. Or that is the other situation, and perhaps this is one of the solutions to this question, that Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, has been drunk from the power he has received, from the opportunities available to him in the regulation's governance, and he wants to take advantage of them. Clearly, for what the government has done over the past period, there is no need for any authorisation again. You promised, and this was the end of the previous debate at the beginning of the summer, that, if possible, the emergency would be eliminated as soon as possible. I'd like to ask you why this summer there was no opportunity to put an end to this emergency. Explain why during the autumn war or the period leading up to this, there was no way to restore the normal legal order! If the country is functioning and vaccinations are working, why does the normal legal order in Hungary not work? This is one of the most important issues, since we have all seen that in the summer it was already possible for people to live their everyday lives partly free of restrictions and even completely free of restrictions. This would have meant that the government should also have guaranteed legislation on everyday life and the state's functioning in everyday life. Compared to what we are and are now in today, I will give you just one very simple example: if you look for a government agency that happens to be in the health sector, and one of the funders of Hungarian health care and the administrator of social security, they are not able to answer a simple question, not only within 15 days, but slowly within 90 days, which is the data available to them in the public interest. In 90 days, referring to the epidemic, they can't do their job, even though you claim that everything in this country has returned to its old order. In any case, you have to say, and I don't think you can tell anyone if in July life is back to normal, why the legislation couldn't go back to normal, why the government needed extra authority, and why you're asking for this extra authorisation again, when he claims it's all been done properly. One of the criteria for extending the emergency situation, you said it would be an effective disease management. Well, if you imagine effective disease management as a result of the previous waves, when, unfortunately, in the third wave, Hungary has preceded the number of death-related deaths in the last few days in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we also regret, because it was the result of a very important ally in the region, and indeed Hungary, that was the result of the government's relatively well-started vaccination order and vaccination campaign that slowed down by summer, and in the European Union, the countries who had been in a worse position before us, and who were in the first and second vaccinations, have passed by our side in proportion to the criticisms of the first wave, there were many shortcomings. They also asked for a special mandate, and they also asked for the availability of regulation during an emergency, and they did not make good use of it. Hungary's defense against the virus has left a lot to blame, and the cost of which has been paid by people, society, by the fact that 30,000 of our countrymen have unfortunately died in this disease, in this virus, and we have all suffered a serious loss, whether in terms of friends or family. We believe that the government did not properly use the licenses granted to it, even when a two-thirds majority of you voted in favour of this mandate. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will certainly not be able to vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[10.40]]
u2021-09-21-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató has arrived, so now his speech. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-43	I think we're all a little surprised by the fact that the government has said such an expo to a bill of this weight, which has caused a bit of disruption on the agenda, because it is not a simple technical matter here, but it is not about the way the government has tried to set out to extend the deadline a little here, but there is nothing really important going on. The essence of the delegation law is that the government asks for further months to make decisions without any substantive control; the government requests authorisation for further months to maintain an extraordinary legal order. This is obviously unacceptable, and there is no epidemiological justification for this at this stage. The government has not, by the way, come up with such a thing; we have not heard such a thing in the expozee, nor in the justification, such substantial information, nor predictions of what the government expects in the fourth wave of the plague; what measures it intends to take, referring to this law, we do not know this. I continue to maintain my opinion yesterday with enough eloquence that this bill, and this extraordinary situation at all, has nothing to do with disease management. It didn't have anything to do with the summer either, so I have to add many examples. No one can tell me what the logic is in the fact that in this current epidemic situation, let's say major events and some major events can be held without restrictions, in others it is important to have a vaccination card, it is important to have proper control, but, let's say, interim municipal elections pose an extremely serious threat to public health, but these can't be held for a year and a half, since then there have been vacant seats. But I could give you a long list of examples, it is quite obvious that it is not a question of legal conditions for a coherent defence and a coherent defence, but of the fact that the government has fallen in love with the possibility that, by the way, it makes decisions without even parliamentary control, even the brave 133 should not be burdened with sitting in here, and there is no need to listen to the opposition's such concerns and censures, anything and the opposite of anything can be made public in a pleasant midnight Hungarian Gazette. We also see that it is clear, or at least let us put it this way, that there is still a strong suspicion that, by the way, the main reason for this is that the government likes to make financial decisions, so that they are essentially outside the budget. So the current method of using money, the real budget, as these funds flow out of the budget today, is not in a thank-you way with what the Parliament adopted last summer, we indicated that this would not be good, but it has nothing to do with what was brought in with the amendment of the year. The thing is, I get it, you guys like to spend money, and you like it when it doesn't go public. That's what we need most of all regulation governance, which requires a delegation law, and that's what you need this type of opportunity to do. And that whenever you think of something and you don't like it, you feel that something is dangerous to the government, then suddenly it becomes dangerous from an epidemiological point of view, and you declare rules against it. You will tell us that there are economic measures, such as the credit moratorium, which are welcome and desirable to maintain. There's no argument here. But we already passed a law on this in June, I remind my fellow Member Nacsa, who is surprised here, which said that, by the way, these laws will remain in force, and that they can remain in force even after the existence of an extraordinary legal order. You said at the time that it was necessary to accept it until the first day of Parliament, but otherwise it could be terminated earlier, because you will see how the epidemic is going to turn out. Thank God, this summer, the epidemic went well, and the extraordinary legal order was maintained regardless. This proves clearly that the two have nothing to do with each other; the extraordinary legal order is now a wonderful opportunity for government to govern outside parliamentarianism, and it has nothing to do with epidemiological control. But if this was the end of the story, I would say that we are not surprised, we know how your Fundamental Law works, we know what you think about constitutionality, we know what you think about the rule of law, everyone else knows, it's clear, and from now on we are not surprised, or what you think of exercising power. However, there is a tragic aspect of this story, because the fact that you communicate in a messy way in the case of an epidemic, one minute you say that the fourth wave is coming, it is necessary to extend the authorisation law, because who knows what will happen, and the next minute you talk about how, after the success of the vaccination campaign, the vaccination works, Hungary works. I do not know which of Béla Merkely and Prime Minister are taking his quotes from the other, but in any case they all say the same text in a specific way. Now, which one's true? There is an epidemic threat, and it is justified to extend the authorisation law, or the vaccination works, Hungary works [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You clearly don't understand!]] Here is Europe, and even the most successful epidemiology defense in the universe, everything is wonderful. This question is not important because of your relationship to reality for anyone who has common sense, could have doubts or doubts about how consistent and based on the facts the government's propaganda is, but because, dear fellow Members and respected government, it is causing confusion in the minds of people. Since the beginning of the epidemic, you have considered epidemic management only as a propaganda product. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: Oh, my God!]] they do not provide real information, they do not provide credible, reliable information [[A statement from the ruling parties: You're kidding!]] And that is why, for example, while the vaccination campaign was successfully launched, Hungary is no longer one of the top riders of the vaccination in Europe, because a significant part of the people cannot decide when to believe you, when they say that there is an epidemic threat and need to be vaccinated, or when they say that there is a successful defence, there is no danger and there is no need. I ask you, not first, but again and consistently, to stop this kind of legal ambush, to return to normal parliamentary function, at least take the trouble to vote. It may not be a problem for Congressman Nacsa to have no say in important financial decisions, for example, I understand that, but the fact is that my constituents are interested in what public money is spent on, and I would like these decisions to be made in Parliament. So, on the one hand, I think it's clear to everyone what this is about. I really don't hope so, but at least do one thing, really, because, by the way, these lives depend on them to communicate clearly and clearly about what's going on with the epidemic. I do not insist on the Prime Minister doing this, and I would prefer it to be done by a more credible person, but let someone come forward on behalf of the government and tell me what people should expect in the fourth wave, tell us what measures are needed or may be needed, tell us what the real situation is. Because this is the basis for having at least a minimum of confidence in the epidemiological defense, and believe that this kind of loss of trust is a real and serious threat to the health of many people, including, where appropriate, their lives. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-44	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, independent. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Movement does not support the extension of the emergency and we cannot contribute to any closure at all in the future. [[10.50]] These also have consequences: the closure of the coronal virus can result in death, but the government and vaccine manufacturers tend to forget about it. At the same time, we need to ask what the consequences of the closures that affected children, for example, are; how long it takes or how long in health it takes for two million Hungarian children to move normally for a whole year, because they did not keep their physical education classes, and you even believe that playgrounds had to be closed by children who, by the way, had much less danger to the older ones than the mutants of the virus. They have also taken irrational and inexplicable measures in the past period that have really affected children and, by the way, their parents and families. That the number of suicides has increased, and that the number of suicides in Hungary has not been so high in the last thirty years, it is also quite clear that it is the result of closure. They're also death victims. When we talk about how many victims this virus is going to take, we should include them, because the closure that they have made and forced to make is the result of an increase in the number of suicides. But the number of divorces has also increased. Several Hungarian compatriots have decided to end their marriage during the closure period, and these events will be carried forward by Hungarian society over the next decades. But I could mention obesity, which is the result of this irrational closure of sports habits. Some measurements speak of 50 million kilograms of extra weight in terms of total population, so ten million Hungarians have become heavier by a total of 50 million kilograms. How long will that take? Obesity, which will have consequences, for example, for a sedentary lifestyle, obesity for cardiovascular diseases, has also reduced the years of health and, at all, the years of life for the whole population. So if we're talking about closure, we should mention these. But what has also resulted in a direct death is, for example, a lack of interventions in health care. Just the other day, I received news that a 44 - year - old father had died because he had not been subjected to the screening tests prescribed for him. There was a 12-year-old girl and a 6-year-old girl without their father, because of the closure and the unilateral transformation of the whole health system, screening after her esophagus narrowing had not been performed twice for a whole year, so they didn't notice in time that she had cancer, they only discovered it in July, and we don't have this father anymore. So if we're talking about an emergency, if we're talking about closure, we need to talk about these cases, and we shouldn't keep this quiet. The attitude of the government towards the uninoculated is amazing. The communication that we say, Péter Szijjártó continues that the undisposals cause the social, economic and health damage is a truly amazing stigma; moreover, it is not true at all. The fact that you dare to treat the uninoculated as second-class citizens is shocking. People who pay taxes in Hungary, who pay social security in Hungary, refuse to provide healthcare. That's a really scary, totally cheesy thing to do. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not true.]] Making vaccination mandatory for health workers is another blackmail against their own workers, please. Healthcare workers have the right, and every Hungarian person has the right to decide whether they want to use the vaccine or not to use the vaccine, but the stigmatization of their work being taken away from these people is absolutely amazing! What do you think you're doing? ! And they're not gonna stop here, Gergely Gulyás has already talked about how they're gonna make vaccination mandatory in new occupational circles, deprive people of their sovereign decision-making rights. That's insolence! And so is the fact that the elderly begin to vacate their homes. Do you think the elderly haven't thought about getting themselves vaccinated? But they remembered, only they decided; who did not want to use the vaccine, he decided that he did not want to live with it. Just because they start to visit them in their homes doesn't mean they're forced into communist times. It is absolutely amazing, and we protest that they are treated as second-class citizens, they cannot move into colleges, they cannot start university studies, and they are not provided in health care if they need any intervention. It was another lie for you, the Prime Minister and Gulyás Gergely, that the vaccination will solve everything. Orbán said that if a sufficient number of Hungarian citizens were to be vaccinated, there would be no need for anything, and the Prime Minister took it about the beginning of the summer to achieve the graft that will make everything in Hungary great. Compared to this, it turns out that you believe that we will not be able to achieve this by the end of the year, because until then, the government is asking for authorisation again. But Gergely Gulyás lied even more, for in April one of the government briefs said that there would be no need for a third vaccination. That is what Gergely Gulyás literally said in April, and now he is pushing for the third vaccination by Gergely Christmas and Viktor Orbán shoulder to shoulder. Well, what's been said so far hasn't been proven. The statistics show that there are more people in the hospital at the moment, and there are more people on the ventilator when nearly six million people have been vaccinated in Hungary than a year ago when zero but zero vaccines were available to anyone in Hungary. There's more on the ventilator, and there's more in the hospital. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including Lőrinc Nacsa: And why?]] Well, that's how much the vaccine works, and that's how the vaccine solved it. Today's news is that an Olympic swimmer was hospitalized for coronal viral infection after two shots. The dogma of August is that it is important for people to be vaccinated in terms of the spread of the epidemic, because the vaccinees are able to empty fewer viruses when coughing. This was also decided by the detection of Public Health England, and Gábor Kemenesi published in Hungary as a virologist that in the case of the delta variant, this is not true either, so the vaccinees are emptying the same virus or even more viruses in some cases than the uninoculated ones themselves. But what is the biggest problem, my fellow Members, is the vaccination of children. The MiHazák Movement is the only party against vaccination of children, and research in Great Britain and a statement showed that more of the vaccinated adolescent boys were hospitalized there, six times as many were hospitalized because of the side effects of the vaccine, because of heart muscle inflammation, as many as were hospitalized because of the coronal virus. So what we see is that the virus is less dangerous to children than the vaccine itself, and the Hungarian government is also promoting vaccination of children, and Gergely Gulyás has now announced that not only children over the age of 12 but also children over the age of 5 will be vaccinated in Hungary. But there are other actors in this epidemic who cannot go without a word, and these are the vaccine manufacturers. [[11.00]] They're the ones who can't be held responsible for anything, but nothing. Nothing! Whatever happens to any person who has been vaccinated, no one can be held responsible. A 26-year-old girl's family texted me, who received the vaccine in the midday hours, went to bed last night, and never woke up again. A 26-year-old girl. He was a health worker. Maybe he wouldn't have been vaccinated if they hadn't made the vaccination mandatory. And whose responsibility is that? Not for the vaccine manufacturers? The government doesn't? What should this family do? What should this family do? Who do you want them to turn to? Don't you feel that you have a responsibility, or should the vaccine manufacturers who made these vaccines have a responsibility? Doesn't anyone have a responsibility? But not only do they not take responsibility for the lives of people, they do not take responsibility for the health of people, but they do not even take part in the costs. And it's a purely chemical issue that's the responsibility of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, During the closures, many Hungarian people lost their jobs, hundreds of thousands of families' livelihoods were threatened. And what did you do? Government debt has been increased, while multinational trade chains have gained enormous additional revenue. Why didn't they tax them? Why didn't you tax the extra profit of these multinationals? Why didn't they have an epidemic solidarity special tax on them, on vaccine manufacturers and other pharmaceutical companies, on casinos that could have been open even when everyone else had to close down from catering facilities to sports facilities? They didn't have any special taxes on them either. And not to the giant tech companies that have also increased their profits to the same extent as never before in life. So what happened was that the Hungarian people lived with closure, they lived with resignations, the children couldn't go to school, the people's livelihoods were threatened, others lost their jobs, they were miserable, while the multinationals were brutally rich, and you did nothing but raise public debt to a level that hasn't been seen since the Bokros package in Hungary. There would have been multinational companies, they could have been taxed, but you chose to make our children even indebted. The Hungarian Movement therefore protests against the discrimination of the undisposaled, we do not accept compulsory vaccination, we are against vaccination of children, and we cannot support any closure in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-21-46	Dear Parliament, It was not easy for me to listen to the congresswoman; I think her oath also obliges her in this House. It's not for propaganda, it's for something else. Responsible debate. I think that my fellow Members and members of the government will provide the necessary answers. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group.
u2021-09-21-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The first time I pressed a button was when Gergely Arató said a lot of nonsense about extending the emergency situation, but I am forced to respond to the speech by Mrs Dóra Dúró, who talked about the fact that there are more people in the hospital and on a ventilator right now after the run of most of the vaccination campaign than last year. Congresswoman, don't you feel the connection with your anti-vaccination campaign that many people don't get vaccinated by posting giant posters all over the country, talking about vaccination, like yesterday, Zoltán Varga, DK, who also attacked vaccines? Doesn't your political community feel the responsibility of constantly dissuading people from vaccination? Experts told us, virologists, doctors told us that the fourth wave will be the wave of the uninoculated, the uninoculated will be in serious health situations and the uninoculated are most at risk. Don't you feel the responsibility of coming here and talking like that in Parliament, talking about vaccinations and talking about vaccinations, Congresswoman? I would like to say that I hope that, when your children were born, you also had them vaccinated so that you could take them to kindergarten, protective services, and so on. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The two are not the same at all!]] You claim, honourable Member, that you do not receive health care for those who are not vaccinated, which is also an overt lie. There's no such rule! In fact, everyone gets the health care they need, regardless of whether they're vaccinated or not. We're asking everyone because it's the only way to stop this plague from getting vaccinated. This is the national minimum that DK did not comply with its resolution proposals, Jobbik did not do with its speeches, and now you do not do enough, because people are constantly being bullied against vaccination. I think it's a shame, and I'm asking you to stop and not put more lives in danger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró in two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-49	Dear fellow Member, The government, together with the Balliberal Block and vaccine manufacturers, is engaged in one-sided communication. They're just talking about the benefits of vaccination. I've told you facts and figures that were also from reality, and you're anti-disposaling me. I don't think it's a responsible attitude to serve the needs of vaccine manufacturers and push vaccination into the nose and mouth, but to give people as much information as possible so that they can make their own responsible decisions. I'm not making the decision for anyone, but I'm trying to give you as much information as possible. For example, in the case of delta variant, about which the concept of breakthrough infection has to be understood, Hungarian health portals also write, as 70 percent of newly infected people in one state in the United States, i.e. 70 percent of newly infected people received both vaccinations, and I am not saying that they received both vaccinations, but they were infected. So the vaccinees are also able to pass on the infection, and this contradicts what the professionals previously assumed was less contagious. I didn't come up with these things, they're information that's available to you, but they don't tell people that in order to serve the needs of vaccine manufacturers.
u2021-09-21-50	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group, in two minutes.
u2021-09-21-51	I didn't intend to get involved in the debate between these two far-right parties. But now I think that at some point I would like to speak very clearly. There may be a dispute between us and Fidesz that, for example, all vaccines have been authorised in a way that is comforting or not. There may be a dispute between us and Fides about the data that you publish on the effectiveness of vaccines, rather selected, credible or not, or which is credible and how they are interpreted. But what I have to reject most strongly is what Congresswoman Dóra Dúró does, who brainstorms data without a link, without any scientific background, I cannot decide whether without knowing it or without describing it, but what she is doing is incredibly irresponsible, because she has created a mood against vaccinations without any scientific justification for what she is doing. And one million times, Fidesz can say that the opposition is anti-vaccination, it will not be true, but this is indeed anti-vaccination, it is indeed an atmosphere that endangers people's lives.
u2021-09-21-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance in writing. A speech will be made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member. Here you go. [[11.10]]
u2021-09-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill for extending the emergency situation caused by the corona virus epidemic is very short, not only the operative part, but also the justification; it is only that the government intends to extend the emergency to Parliament until 1 January 2022. There is no valid justification in the legislation, so there is not much to talk about. One thing can be said: that a Member of Parliament will vote, whether or not. I will certainly not vote in favour, not only because there are no existing circumstances that would be justified, and the other reason is that, over the past year and a half, the government has demonstrated that it is abusing the mandate of an emergency on a large number of issues and that decisions are taken by way of regulatory governance in matters which fall within parliamentary competence. I would like to use the possibility of speaking to look back on the process of the coronal virus epidemic, whether it is the health aspect or the government. I must say that the last government speech, lecture, which was indeed professional, was linked to the epidemic and suggested that I was speaking to a responsible thinker and a responsible government person, at the meeting of the Defence Committee on 11 March 2020 was a speech by Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth. It was the first one, and it was the last one since. This was the speech of the only truly prepared government official, because at that time there were no strong government ideas from economic circles that resulted in unjustified procurement, overpriced and reckless measures. Ildikó Horváth then made it very clear what type of virus we are dealing with, this is a flu virus, he said that we still do not know which age groups, what genetic and physiological characteristics he will bring down more than the average flu, but based on professional experience he asks us to wait a little, see how the epidemic will spread, who will be affected, the health care system must be put in a position to receive a sufficient number of patients, and he asked political parties to be dissipated there, to be considered, and not to make statements that are suitable for dissipating citizens. This was for me. The government statement. We didn't even get out of this meeting when left-wing opposition parties announced that we should immediately close all schools, start closing the borders and closing everything, and I couldn't say anything else because I'm a thoughtful man, and I like to wait for something to happen, so that there are no excessive measures that cause confusion in society, and I stayed alone, who said, "But please, where will you put the children, and what will happen to the working adults, and how do you think about the care?" So I can tell left-wing opposition parties that they have done their best to drive the government into the consequences of closure. Let me see... [[Gergely Harvestó: Obviously the government was terrified of us, that's all!]] Take a look at your statements at the time. And since the last 11 years are about nothing but the left and the Fidesz throwing each other into all sorts of forced political decisions, you are pandans of each other, and all those who are able to think rationally in politics are second-rate, because the press only brings down your stupid statements and your reckless statements, and that puts people into even more uncertainty. I have to say that a significant part of yesterday's parliamentary speeches and I have to say that both the ruling party and the opposition were so foolish, so unable to overcome important issues and make professional-based statements, not to mention when 30,000 dead people are told by a Member who takes responsibility for it... Well, I'm shocked. I'll tell you what, I'm glad that's all there is, and do you know why I'm happy about it? Because I am aware of the health status of Hungarian society, its general health condition. And when this epidemic began to spread, I prayed to the Creator that for many decades the poor health of Hungarian society in all international research has not been the cause of more people dying because of this epidemic than in other countries in the world. We have to start by appreciating this year and a half of the situation that this has come into our country. The Gyurcsány government has begun to dismantle the CDC, Fidesz has finished. By 2017, the administrative and health organisation of the CDC was at such a low level that it was a disaster. This is how Hungarian society received this epidemic. What I have just said: for decades, every statement shows that Hungarian society is for some reason more sick than the average, even though, whether you like it or not, the standard of living has improved over the past decades, hygiene conditions have improved, it's amazing how the diagnostic capabilities of the health care system have increased, the knowledge of doctors and specialists has increased, and the training at universities has improved, so what? the frustration caused by lifestyle, thinking and political confusion, which is why Hungarian society is sicker. That's where the outbreak came in. As a result of years of activity in the health care system, many medical staff have gone away, and health care has a permanent shortage of doctors and nurses. That's where this outbreak came in. So if a responsible politician in this country says that in an optimal situation and under optimal conditions, and everything was available to handle this well, it is not telling the truth. This is partly the result of the relations generated by the current government, but to a large extent the activities of the past 20-25 years. What's gonna happen? The government does not do that by opening the Fundamental Law, opening the Health Act, opening the Disaster Protection Act, in which it is perfectly described what to do in such a situation, no; it begins to build a completely new legal environment. Why? 'Cause in the meantime, they've figured out how much money they're gonna make. Think about it. There are 2600 medical personnel in Hungary that can operate a ventilator by 2600! So even though I put 10,000 in hospitals, there's no one who can turn it on, who can run it professionally. What's going on? Twenty-six thousand will be acquired or donated to another country, or there will be at least 23,000 unpopulated in the warehouses. HUF 270 billion was unduly paid. There is a very serious problem there, and whether you like it or not, fellow Members, you have to admit that these data are duly requested by any citizen, let alone a politician, and I do not understand why the government has to develop a factor of mistrust that it does not disclose important data. One, he refuses to say how many people are affected by the tests they've done. We only know the number of tests, but how many people are affected, we don't know. I'm, like, three tests, I don't know how many million, so I'm sure it doesn't affect as many people. Why is that important? It's important because we have a population, we need to know how many people have been tested, and we need to draw conclusions from how many of them were positive. That's just one reason. Then they refuse to tell us how many people were hospitalized because of the complications or severity of the disease caused by an effective coronary virus. Every time I ask the minister, he refuses to answer that question. Can we just say, why are you hiding how many people he put in the hospital? Probably because then it could be compared to the number of people who died, and probably such a huge percentage of those who died compared to those who went to the hospital that the government does not want to say so much. [[11.20]] And then the next thing I know, I don't understand, why don't you just tell me the number of diseases. 'Cause we all know the infected isn't sick, that's just infected. He will be sick when the virus in his system generates a disease that the healthcare system, or if he is lucky and has a mild course, can heal himself. The reason why the actual number of patients would have been important was because they call non-infected people cured on the website, which is not true again. Of course, it could be said that the reason he's hiding this data is how many people actually got sick, because again, the statistics would deteriorate, which is the number of patients and the number of people who died compared to each other, if we compare it, it shows it. So secrecy is an extremely serious problem, and this, in society, has also generated frustration in addition to closure. You have to understand, my fellow politicians, that in society, even healthy and spiritual, this has been an incredible frustration for the past year and a half. There was no differentiation, there were a lot of unjustified restrictions, which in no way showed that we got along well, that is, some data was better than if it had happened without closure. In the middle of Hortobágy, the 15 enthusiastic villages had the same closure as Budapest's I. district or the V. district. So there was no differentiation, which made life extremely difficult for our citizens, and frustration was greatly increased by the fact that government domination, on the other hand, was unlimited. People couldn't travel, but the military machine called the government machine and the private jets of the oligarchs could fly to exotic and very popular places popular among the rich, unlimitedly, and after closing, it turned out that the wealth of large companies, the oligarchs, the richest, had increased by 30 percent, while the number of ordinary people suffered terrible losses. So a democratic-minded man, a politician who does not listen to this connection, does not draw the conclusion and does not think that in the long term political and people, as well as government and people, can lose confidence so much that denial of democracy will come and it is very bad for everyone, and it is very bad for you too. Believe in democracy, please do not judge our country, society or international space. I'm gonna talk a little bit more about saboteurs, because they were. In the healthcare system, not in the emergency, trauma, care of Covid and not in the obstetrics, there was a huge amount of doctors who refused to receive patients in areas outside, even though they received complete equipment and complete protective equipment, so they could care for patients without risk. As a result, many people's health loss has become much greater, and God forbid, many have died. In public administration, in justice, the lazy ones, because there are decent ones there, but the lazy ones refused to work. They complain about surveyors, architects, water people that they couldn't get basic data, because if they didn't want it, then they didn't work for the official, saying there's an epidemic and they're defending themselves. Unbelievable! This will be easy to look at, because doctors will be able to compare the patient's diary and the number of cases handled in public administration and see who refused to work during this period. In the meantime, in the Covid classes, intensive care, trauma classes, obstetrics, people have made an amazing sacrifice for their day-to-day work, and you may not even know that many doctors from these classes have been sent to the Covid classes or to a rennet doctor. So they took care of the entire practice, and then they worked to get society out of this madness. A hundred words have one end, the government creates uncertainty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the consequences of this must be borne by him. Thank you.
u2021-09-21-54	Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. Allow me first to welcome our fellow Member Gábor Bányai back to Parliament [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That was yesterday!]] who, I believe, in the context of this item on the agenda, is the most credible on this issue, and, unfortunately, following the very serious traumas that he has experienced, perhaps the most sincerely expressing his position. Congressman! Welcome home. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I have to be a little careful of honest, deep thoughts, because I could really tell you something that everyone who opposes anything about the law here would see differently, and I'm not sure we have to discuss it in front of the public television. First of all, I thank you, all my 198 fellow Members, for thinking of me, when I had no hope, and thank you very much for praying for me, because where science is stuck, indeed, as the Speaker said yesterday, something else happened, someone came to help me return, and I am grateful to him too. But especially to those e-workers who nursed me, each who could extend even one life, even if saved, we especially thank you all. After all, the palms raised by the e-workers have grown under a great burden, because they have been under enormous strain, and there are still many threats to them. I thought that Gergely Arató would be the rudest Member to whom I had to answer and I wanted to speak, but I was very shocked at the comments of Mrs Dóra Dúró, because what he said, citing only my own example, in citing my own seven months, does not stand in his place, almost none of it. I mean, you've paired things with each other that aren't logically or professionally compatible, or you've got a grudge against an opportunity that I don't think there's anything else about vaccination, because if I could have had it, because I was assigned to the GP just a day later, when I had to listen to the clacking of the ventilator. I'm really sorry I didn't get any of them in time. I would like to say to you that until February, as long as I remember, I did not really hear words supporting the vaccinations from the other side, here is the screaming, howling of origin that I have heard, or a joint campaign against vaccination with protesters against vaccination itself. I think it's life-threatening. That's what I said then, and even that it really hurt me that I couldn't get, let's say, a vaccine sooner, because I fell into this disease so much that it practically killed me twice. But it is that a Member of Parliament, who belongs anywhere... as Congressman Nacsa said, if we cannot put together a national minimum and we cannot argue with the majority of the population, society, voters, before saying one thing, and do not doubt anyone who is afraid of Chinese, Russian or American, German vaccination or any of the things that follow, I think this is not a good policy. In fact, I'm saying that this is basically a collective suicide call for a part of society that still doesn't want vaccination. We know from the fourth wave that I got my own dose from the British variant that this Indian delta variant is much more virulent. Everyone should be prepared for this, that it will not be easy, there are two or three million adult Hungarian citizens who have not yet received almost one or just one vaccine. Why would they be in danger? Why are they in greater danger? Because vaccination itself doesn't protect us from infection, of course, we tell everyone, but it can protect them from being as serious as myself and many, many, tens of thousands of our countrymen. [[11.30]] When I was at the Kiskunhalas Epidemic Hospital in the ICU, ITO, they told me about it afterwards, because I couldn't have any experience of my own, there were 40 of us at the same time in that class, two of us survived, two of us. We don't know why anyone's left, I don't, and we're not talking about creating centres in the country's university hospitals who will know how to use this special ECMO device, and we're talking about a 50-year-old device. I've had my share of those speakers who fought against me after my recovery when I checked in on my social networking site. This machine can save lives, but it takes at least six professionals at the same time, who not only come out of, say, cleaning staff, but also vascular surgeons, heart surgeons, cardiologists, interns, and who knows what kind of people they are at the same time. It can't be operated any other way. There are few such machines in the country, but there are few others. It's a special device that's the last resort. I was lucky, too, because a machine was released in Szeged, there was no more. In fact, I'll tell you worse: we know from the plasma of blood that the plasma of infected people is medicine, they couldn't get it for me when I was in danger, but they had hours to live. We can't get the covids to give more plasma. I can't give blood yet, but I'll give it to you as soon as I can, and it'll hold my body, because I had a complete exchange of blood, because 16 units of blood is a lot of blood that's been replaced, and I'm about to be drained of other people's blood. Why doesn't the opposition promote these? The government's trying, because this plasma would be a lifesaver for those in Covid. Why aren't we talking about this? It's true that there's been an increase in suicides, which can be proven. Of course. But what would we have done if we hadn't shut our countrymen down? What would have happened then? Will more people get infected? That's what would have happened at the events. I was terrified when the government at times facilitated this part of the austerity to keep us away. Seriously, I went to midnight mass scared and sidelined because I knew that part of my immune system that was connected to my lungs was weaker, but we got away with it. Thank God we got away with it, but what if there weren't any lockdowns? What if our kids went to school? In fact, it wasn't easy. The fact that kids can't move at home, I think that's impossible, because all the kids want to move, so they didn't need to move. The connection, the children's relationship with each other was missing. That's what you can complain about, but there was no other way. If he had brought the disease home to parents thanks to another parent's child, it would have been an even greater disaster, more people would have died from this disease. I'm very sorry for those who have lost any of their family members. That nearly 31,000 people didn't die because of bad decisions made by health workers or by the government, or whatever you say, they didn't. Well said Andrea Varga-Damm, the health of Hungarian people is much worse. That this is due only to mental causes or to nutrition, this could be another topic of debate. There is much to talk about, but let us not compare it to Austria or Germany, where they live much healthier. Just one example: in Hungary 80 kilos of vegetables and fruit are eaten by Hungarian compatriots, 200 kilos in Austria and Germany. It's obvious that we're behind in this. Regardless of prosperity or economic growth in any sector or our pockets, it is true whether it is a representative or a simpler person, although we are in a much worse state of health, which is why there are many more deceased. Immunisation of those who work there. I had another race this summer because we don't talk about post-Covid anyway, we don't even notice that because we know there's a post-Covid, but we don't know what it is. I've had, like, 12 symptoms since then, which I haven't had before, which makes me limp, which makes my hair fall or whatever, so it's amazing, or the blood pressure gets out of control. In addition to the deceased, the number of sufferers still suffer from Covidon's passing, and it was not the easier version to just run through us like a child. They're the ones we should be arguing about, how to integrate them back into society. I know military men who were by my side, we were in the hospital together. He can't go back to his profession right now because he can't run, he can't have muscles, because muscle loss in a covidos takes two weeks. I didn't gain 5 kilos, I lost 28 kilos, maybe it looked good on me, but my legs got so thin, like wrinkles. But that's not the point of what I had, but someone has to deal with them. That would be a better topic than talking our fellow Hungarians out of vaccination. I also prescribed depression, for example. It's something amazing in covidos. People who were locked up, locked up, and got sick, and for them, it was a lot easier, and they didn't suffer the infection. I don't know who picked him up, who went to the hospital, who was on the ventilator, but I'm reporting that twenty-thousand-thousand respirators, this crazy amount of machinery wasn't bought by the government on its own accord. They told the professionals that that's all they need, and the fact that they can't really handle it anyway is many. They've been trained, by the way, some people online, some people live to use these machines. But what if all these people had to be placed at the same time? It's just that no one knew how this virus would come at us, not Ildikó Horváth, not the Minister, not us. This virus is not a flu virus, so let's just say it's a flu type, but it's a lower respiratory tract, it's the worst part, so we can't fight it any other way. We were funny to say that the Szeklers said that they would use the brandy to solve the defense, because it would flush the virus down and destroy it. Now there's the fourth wave, and it's got them too. So the schnapps aren't helping either. They always said that in the part of Romania, in the part of Transylvania where Hungarians live, the Szeklers, the virus does not spread so much. That's not true. That's why, we don't know who to reach, I'm just giving you a simple example. The immune system changes in the morning, noon, and evening, like a sinus curve. If we were listening to a bad speech or an unpleasant speech, it might have fallen in, and if the virus came in then, it could come out, knock us out, and maybe an hour before that, nothing would have happened. It's a constantly changing system that would protect us from viruses or diseases in our biological system. So what we're talking about here is that no one knows, let's just say that nobody, of course, is exaggerating, most people don't know what the virus will cause in the long run. So whether it's caused something else to a covid, or who's suffered a lot or just what it's been through, we don't know, I think it's an artificial piece of stuff that someone has created, because nature can't be that bad with humanity, so what it can squeeze out of itself, the post-viral periods for the patient or for the future patient, it's incomprehensible to most of us. I started talking to health workers about this idea, who in July were outraged by the government's decision to have a compulsory vaccination. I tell them, unnamed, that my dear nurse, if you get sick and three others from the department, from the ICU, who will nurse the patients. I know we're interfering with their rights, their personal rights, their decisions, because they can't make decisions, but I, who was sick, say that all medical personnel should be required. If you're mad at me now, and next time you're not gonna save me, it might be the price, but I know one thing, you can't save any of them without them. We don't know what this virus is gonna do to someone. I lived healthy, I played sports, I took vitamins, I ate a lot of vegetables and fruit, and I couldn't protect myself. It comes to someone, it comes to someone, we can't practically give anyone a certain recipe. The point is, I'm telling you that we need to talk about the disadvantages of Covid, not just the disadvantages of vaccination. Covid tried to kill the entire human race, where it hit its head. There are countries where people die, where they didn't even defend themselves. We don't even know what happened there. I have more relatives out there, and they told me that none of what the media said about the situation in Sweden is true. How's the government debt mixed up with Covid? This could be the subject of another debate, these debts, which you are throwing at us to make this country in debt. This is all a source of development, not for feeding, medicine, but for development, which doesn't come to the Fidesz people, it doesn't come here anyway, but everyone gets these development resources, not to mention the fact that the European Union didn't really want to help. In English, the law on the legal evolution of Covid lies before you. January 1st is a date that, I'm sure, if you make it happen to your constituents, the government can go through with it, and we hope that if you do not consider our actions incorrect, then you can prevent them from becoming infected and sick in bulk, whether the Hungarians die. [[11.40]] That's why I'm asking you to support it. And if you want to talk about Covid, argue, I'd be happy to be available at any time as a living witness to this terrible disease and this situation. I'd be happy to talk to either of you, but please don't talk the Hungarians out of it, especially in this debate, with any loud words and shouting to get vaccination, because I can't imagine anything worse. It could also be called a conspiracy against the nation, if we talked a million or two people out of defending themselves with this at least, get an opportunity for the virus infection that will reach everyone sooner or later, not to make them sicker than a common cold, a simple fever. That's what I wish for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-21-56	Thank you very much, Congressman, and for the healing of all aftereffects. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group.
u2021-09-21-57	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. It is very difficult to speak after our fellow Member Gábor Bányai. First of all, I would like to say that we welcome you back, and as the leader of the Hungarian parliamentary prayer group, we have organised a prayer chain of 0-24 hours for you and we are pleased to have you here. [[Gábor Bányai: Thank you very much.]] What can you say? He's been through the whole thing. It was in the hands of the Lord, and here it is. And he told us what was important, how he saw it, and how glad he would have been if he had been able to get a shot in time. But obviously the older ones had to be vaccinated first, those who were even more at risk than we were. This proves that from us, from here, Fidesz-KDNP's benches, there was no one who tried to get a vaccine before, although we really wanted to get a vaccine then, but there was no one. And that is why Gábor, our fellow Member, is in such a situation. I am very happy about what you said, and there were a lot of surreal things that were originally said about opposition speeches, and I would just like to mention one of them now, what is the cause of this emergency, what is the result of this virus breaking out in Vuhan and running all over the world. So, fellow Members, this is nonsense. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that they do not say that Parliament has not worked, because, indeed, it has worked in the past year and a half, the committees have also worked, and the constitutional order, the rule of law, exists in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just hope that my colleague Gábor Bányai got my message from his dear family. [[Gábor Bányai nods.]] And indeed, we have prayed for you not only in the pro-government but also in the opposition, as we used to pray for our fellow Member Aradski. Our fellow Member mentioned that it was just before the vaccination. Even though we know what kind of hell he's been through, we don't know what kind of hell he'd have been through if he'd been vaccinated as an active infection. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] 'Cause everyone knows how much damage that's caused. In January this year, I asked the Minister with a written question to describe precisely who would not receive vaccination; he himself wrote that the active infected or who was within three months, because manufacturers simply cannot provide certain answers to these situations. But I would like to say to my fellow Member Vejkey that I do not think that the epidemic itself was caused by the government, because it is indeed a pandemic. However, as a Member of Parliament, I can say that it is very thoughtful that in a country this epidemic has begun, far before the disease has begun, that they were willing to betray it, and then half the world has filled this country with hundreds of billions of dollars, rather than people who have kept silent about what virus has been released from the world in China should talk about the responsibility of many international societies. Of course, we cannot influence this in Hungary, but this is also part of this whole question. My fellow Member said that Parliament worked all along. Well, if Parliament is functioning through, there is no need for an emergency law, since government regulations are already approved by Parliament, particularly by a two-thirds majority, without the need for regulation governance. Thank you.
u2021-09-21-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Pál Völner, Deputy Miniszer, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-21-61	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said in the debate, and I just want to reflect on a few things. First of all, it was a little disappointing that professional representatives also confuse the legislation of the period. Thus, there was a law that Parliament had created, for example, in the framework of normal procedures, laws relating to universities, so that our fellow Member Gurmai Zita was a little mistaken here, these were not created by emergency regulation, there were regulations that the government would otherwise have done in peace time, and there was an emergency regulation, where, using his powers, which Parliament had given him, he could create out-of-the-line regulations on legislative matters that helped him. We can think of the fact that the different functioning of courts and prosecutors, when it was necessary, for example, to establish a regulation with very quick deadlines, would not have been possible without such an emergency legislation. So when we hit this whole emergency period, no one knew what this epidemic was, how Parliament could meet at all, and if it could not meet, how to create this emergency legislation. So it was absolutely necessary. The past period has confirmed that Parliament can continue to work in normal legislative powers, that the government can carry out its normal legislative activities, but from time to time, issues that need to be resolved quickly arise, and then, when the emergency is over, we have been with a law leading out here before Parliament, these laws can be permanently converted into law if approved by Parliament. Thus, Parliament's powers have not been impaired in recent times, and even in times of emergency, when the Prime Minister reported on the events before Parliament. As regards the various issues relating to the municipalities, for example, the business tax had a discount for small and medium-sized enterprises. Everyone knows that this was replaced by the government from the budget in the settlements below 25,000, so they were not disadvantaged, but at the same time we were able to help businesses not to get into a difficult situation. It has also been confirmed that the planned level of business tax in the capital has nevertheless worked and that businesses have done so, thanks to the fact that the government has been able to keep the economy alive throughout, with wage subsidies, investment grants, and that this activity is still needed in this area. The budget deficit has also been mentioned here, and my fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, has also mentioned that these resources, which, for example, are financed by credit, serve improvements, and the Prime Minister also said yesterday that, if the Union opens the funds for the reconstruction fund, we have actually advanced them, so there has not been any overspending in this area. I wanted to talk about anti-vaccination, but my colleague Gábor Bányai, I think you may have been more convincing about what this is about. Obviously, there is a harsher form of this, sometimes a more subtle form of the left-wing lack of confidence in vaccination. It happened yesterday. Indeed, those who have a sense of responsibility should stop doing this, and perhaps we should save as many lives as possible and accept that there is a way to agitate in favour of taking vaccinations. [[11.50]] And there is no derogation from any previous legal framework that there are jobs or places where vaccination becomes compulsory. In peacetime, for example, foresters are obliged to be vaccinated against ticks, even though this is not common among the population. When it comes not only to our own lives but also to others, such a rule can prevail greatly. Andrea Varga-Damm had a suggestion about the tests. Technically, it has been proven over the past period that no one has recovered from the test, it is practically the vaccine that can protect us, and the protective equipment that we have acquired, from masks to various hospital equipment, even to respirators, were important. To go through these in the context of a parliamentary procedure, let us face it, that it would continue to be impossible. And the other: the fourth wave, we hope, will virtually stop at this level, but what if after the delta variant another variant comes, or we meet new challenges. So we must have weapons in our hands so we can defend ourselves. Thank you for your attention and for your support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-62	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate was concluded. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on rules to promote the competitive functioning of higher education institutions and on the amendment of certain laws on property management, government administration and criminal law will follow. The government referral is T/17098. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the approved emergency proposal, amendments can be tabled by the end of the day. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2021-09-21-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Although the bill before us bears a complex title, it contains rules that facilitate the competitive functioning of higher education institutions, as well as amendments to certain laws on property management, government administration and criminal law, it is called, but in fact it has a very simple, clear and obvious content. And I am pleased with this bill because I believe that this is, on the one hand, a very serious step forward on a very important policy issue, and, on the other hand, a rather unworthy debate, which I believe to be taking place over the last year, can end what the transformation of Hungarian higher education is about, and how and how the government intends to ensure its financial conditions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start a little bit from a distance. Basically, there are two types, almost to say that since the change of system, two kinds of perceptions have been struggling with each other in Hungarian political history. I believe that there is no difference between the two concepts that Hungarian higher education, Hungarian talent, the institutional system for developing and developing Hungarian ambition is generally important, the issue of national strategy in general. The philosophical difference really comes from what to do when, by the way, the state of the Hungarian economy is not right when we are in crisis, when we are not in abundance of resources, but we have resource constraints, so what we have to do. There is a school, which described the socialist-free democrat government before 2010, but in the '90s, if we remember the Bokros package, then there were also pictures of this, which says that if we have a crisis, if we have economic difficulties, then the human sectors are culture, education, health and related areas, from which resources can be withdrawn with the least pain, from which money can be collected, and then these funds can be transferred to other areas. We deeply disagree with this approach, and our current crisis management is based on denial of this concept and, on the contrary, on the enforcement of another concept. We, of course, think that when there are difficulties, when there is a crisis, if there really is a sector to which extra resources must be put, those sectors that basically define the future of people, and that is education and such is health care. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) They used to tie its source to Churchill, and I couldn't check the anecdote that in World War II, when they wanted to reduce the spending on culture by reference to war spending, he said that people, if we cut cultural spending, we would end up at war. That's the way it is with education and health. Therefore, we have put a lot of energy into it, and the Hungarian Parliament has put in a lot of hours of work in recent years to prepare one of the debts of the system change, the scale shift and the turn of competitiveness of Hungarian higher education, and this bill is a step towards a next important conclusion of this process, this one-year process. The bill is therefore about the change of model for 21 universities, and with this change of model they have changed to another administration, management and institutional management system. This order, which, I say, institutional, administrative, institutional and economic order, gives the institutions more independence than the previous fiscal and state maintenance system. This model is also known for universities located west of us and, by the way, east of us in higher education rankings. The fact that these universities operate in a foundational format is a special format in Hungary. We are talking about public trust foundations, so these universities are not a private sector, they are not designed to create additional resources for someone, for their maintenance, but they are an operating model in which the university is a separate, independent economic and higher education unit, which has wealth, which has adequate regular income from multiple channels, and is able to always reverse into higher education resources from asset management and provisions from different income channels from year to year. So all the revenue generated, all the income generated, all the assets available to the university and generating profit, is then to be reversed and reversed into the basic activity of higher education, which is also laid down in the statutes of these public-interest trust foundations, or by two-thirds of the laws. This construction is therefore fortunate because on the one hand it gives a flexibility to the university's management, it gives independence, autonomy, but also gives a flexibility so that the university can play the course that is given to it. Of course, let's say the perspective of a Semmelweis University is different from, say, a MOME art university or, say, a regional university in Miskolc, but each strategy, each course and each perspective is important. Different tactics need to be followed in order for these universities to succeed in their territory, and now they have the power, mandate, institutional autonomy and wealth to do so. The other thing that's important, where I started, is what happens when there's trouble. This system, which is now in place, is capable of not making decisions by either future government, either right-wing or left-wing, that if there is a problem, if there is a crisis in the country, we are not putting extra money into higher education, but we are removing funds from higher education, as was the case in the 2006-2010 cycle, and also in the Bokros package in Hungary. [[12.00]] So you can guarantee that there is something you can do that a government tells you that it has other public policy priorities. Once again, I would like to point out to Churchill that we are finally in the world, we are finally at war if we don't give education and culture. This can be done, but that the Hungarian future will be pawned and that resources will be taken out of higher education, in this new system, once again, cannot be done by either government. After creating these legal constitutional foundations, universities and I introduced this new model of operation, universities made a voluntary decision. The 21 universities, which are listed in the annex to this bill, voluntarily, with very large Senate support on average, nearly 90 percent of the Senate supported the change in higher education models, voluntarily decided to participate in the transformation, and they would also like to receive property in the form of a public trust fund and re-regulate the relationship between the state and universities. After the transformation of the legal structure itself, this was discussed separately in a separate law, despite the emergency, the Hungarian Parliament discussed the transfers of assets for a long time. There are different calculations, but I can tell you with great certainty that if we calculate that it is about HUF 2000 billion in wealth that the higher education institutions have received through these transfers of wealth, then it is not a data that can be started by serious experts, so I think it is worth accepting this as a starting point. So the assets were made in the amount of HUF 2000 billion, and then under the leadership of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, we came to the stage in which we asked the new universities to define their own strategy; to present a plan of what they would like to achieve in the coming years, and what funding is needed for this. And then the universities put a HUF 2700 billion development need on the table. These development needs have been discussed and accepted by the Government of Hungary. These one-time improvements are partly infrastructural improvements; about 50 percent infrastructural development, and the rest are other, long-term, not everyday, but long-term, primarily professional, intellectual type development needs, which obviously has a financial basis. So this HUF 2700 billion will still be available to universities partly from EU and partly from Hungarian budget sources. Government decisions have been taken in this regard, and the preparation of their implementation is currently taking place from the university side. But we have struggled over the past year with a type of accusation, or rather I say that it is slanderous that this is about the Hungarian state withdrawing from the funding of higher education and leaving the universities alone. We have said from the first moment that this is not the case, but the next spring election is near, so we understand that on the left there is not much room for reason and ration, but who, in some way, knows in international comparison to the operation of higher education and the financing of higher education, clearly sees it, and has also clearly seen that even the best-functioning, most successful Ivy League universities, although they operate in the form of foundations, were originally created in exactly the same design as the Hungarian transformation, but they are still the largest funder of these universities through various research and other educational cooperations by the federal state, or the US Member State where these universities are located. So even in countries with a better historical development than us, in the United States of America or in Western Europe, where we are talking about the top 100 universities, which operate as foundations, the state is also seriously involved in funding, of course, the university's revenue system is diverse, so there are several sources. The Alumni system also recovers funds, funds are also imported from the private sector, and the various public bodies also finance the university, and this brings together a budget that is the necessary but not sufficient precondition for success. I'd like to put a parentheses here. A little about higher education, although not many of us talk about it: higher education is a little like football. So if we want to be in the Champions League, where we want a team capable of being in the Champions League, and see how the annual budget of the clubs in the Champions League, let's say, in the last ten years, is going to be, and we see that our club's budget is below the bottom of the frog, then there's practically no chance that the Champions League will have the team. So the task of success is necessary, but not sufficient prerequisite, that the available resources need to be expanded and the university budget raised, and the football team budget should also be brought up to the level of the Champions League. And then there comes the human factor, the human factor, taking into account, because then you need a good coach, good players to justify, good preparation and good luck. In the same case of university: you have to make a good research base, then you have to produce a student quality, then you have to fix the infrastructure and the rest. The Hungarian higher education institutions wanted to say this only because, despite all the dissenting rumors and suggestions, Hungarian higher education institutions are not at the moment among the best higher education institutions in the world, because the Hungarian teachers, academic researchers and university teachers' staff would not otherwise be world-class, or would not be able to perform well. The exact opposite is the situation, the provision of financial conditions and the creation of financial foundations that have been lacking since the change of regime. Therefore, it is crucial that universities have been structured into a new structure and have been set up as a public-interest trust fund, so it is important that the government is committed to the transfer of assets and the Parliament has supported the government's intentions in this regard. This has already meant a EUR 2000 billion transfer of assets, so it is important that the plans submitted by universities on infrastructure and other long-term developments worth HUF 2700 billion have been supported by the Government of Hungary and the preparations are under way. The bill before us is important because it actually places the final stone of this new system, which will settle the law on how the relationship between the state and the universities and its financing side will develop in the coming years, in the coming decades. In doing so, the bill attempts to support Members of Parliament in order to enable the state to conclude long-term financing contracts with all such model-changing universities, including for decades. These financing contracts should be twofold as detailed in the bill. One part of the funding should be the basic financing, and the second should be performance-based funding, so that the State will remain in the position of customers, it can also define the qualitative and, moreover, quantitative requirements where this arises, which are significant from a national strategic perspective. The university can adapt its resources to this, and then it can accommodate the second half of the funding, as we go forward over the years, an increasing percentage of the funding, so the university can contribute to the second half of the funding. [[12.10]] I would now like to conclude by saying that I think that, once again, I say that this is an unworthy political debate that has taken place in front of the Hungarian public over the last year, whether this is a restructuring or whether there will be any additional resources in Hungarian higher education, this debate is over. This is no longer debatable on a fact-based basis. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] It can be said that the spending on higher education has been around HUF 200 billion until now. On the whole, we can talk about not only those items, but also, for example, the replacement of PPPs and other development resources allocated to non-model-changing institutions, it can be said that what runs through the Finance Act will be more than HUF 400 billion, which goes to Hungarian higher education. In itself, this bill results in a surplus of 330 billion, which is now just the surplus that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology will put into the system in the years to come and years to come. We calculate that the result will be roughly that we have data for 2019, right, Eurostat data on which EU country spends on higher education in Hungary in proportion to GDP, the proportion of higher education spending in Hungary, this is, again, a higher number, this was 0.8 per cent of GDP, this is a higher figure than in the fiscal law, because this includes one-off grants and other items, but there is a single EU account here. So the numbers are comparable. This was 0.8 per cent for Hungary in 2019, according to the latest available data, and we were around the EU average. So, before the conversion, Hungarian higher education spending was based on the EU average, and we estimate that by 2022, universities will be able to start and manage projects with budgetary coverage, which can climb up around 2 percent. Finland led by 1.8 percent in 2019. We don't see how other countries turn out. We see that other countries spend less on higher education from EU funds than Hungary does, so we can well assume that if we can really raise the cost of higher education to around 2% and keep it there for many years, we will be among the three best countries in Europe. So from this point forward, we can say that there are financial limitations to the success of Hungarian higher education, to the turn of competitiveness and to the position of as many Hungarian universities as possible in international rankings, so that there will be no financial limitations to this goal, and from then on, universities, all 21 universities, which are model-changing universities, are the ones who have to take advantage of this historic opportunity. I would like to ask you to take advantage of this historic opportunity from the Parliament and support the model-shifting institutions and support the renewal of Hungarian higher education. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we move on, the Parliament must decide on a matter of sitting. Vice-President Brenner Koloman and Vice-President István Hiller have indicated that they would like to speak in the general debate. Under the regulations of the House, if the Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of the further hearing of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to allowing Mr Brenner Koloman and Vice-President István Hiller to lead the Parliament's meeting during the further hearing of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor F Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. As usual, 15 minutes is the time frame, and you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17098 ahead. A total of 15 legislative amendments are initiated. Most of these are text exchanges and legislative harmonisation clarification proposals, which I do not wish to mention separately. Among the legislative amendments, I would just like to talk about the most important changes. As stated in the expozee, the most important element of the proposal is the future funding of universities. I think that there was a need for a change of model in higher education, as this ensures that our universities can maintain competition and even move forward on the international rankings. There can be no question that the successful and educated heads of people in a country guarantee to move forward. The government is committed to making the entire system of domestic higher education and all its actors interested in presenting the results that are as successful as possible, which are also recognised at international level. The government is thinking about developments that have not been seen since the Minister of Kunó Klebelsberg since 1922-1931. I would like to emphasise that the total amount of higher education has doubled compared to the expenditure of left-wing governments. By 2022, an even higher amount will be available for universities. The whole point of the change of model is to create organisations capable of receiving and making effective use of these huge amounts. In order to facilitate this, the needs of a new model economy and public services were needed to create a more closely and effectively cooperative model with more open companies. This model became the public-service trust fund model and such a foundation was reorganized by 21 universities. A performance-based financing system has been established based on 25-year framework agreements and six-year financing opportunities and contracts. Thus, the State does not withdraw from the life of the transition institutions, but becomes a client of higher education services, so it becomes a partner from a maintainer. It is important to note that the existing system is based on the Austrian model and shows the need for changes that 87 percent of the Senate members of the institutions requesting the change of model supported the institutional transformation. The Fundamental Law guarantees the autonomy of universities in the same way and the transferred property can only be used for higher education purposes. I believe that it is important to ensure long-term, stable and predictable operation in the life of the organisation, and therefore this amendment of the proposal will also be supported by the Fidesz faction group. Mr President, I would like to turn to the other part on the amendment of the 2007 Law on the transparency of public funds. Another element of the proposal submitted concerns the Hungarian village programme. As a rural representative myself, I know how important the development of the Hungarian village programme is, as these greatly contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the rural people. The most recent option of the government is to apply for support from companies operating in settlements under the number of two thousand, if they operate a grocery store in their small settlement or open a new shop in a settlement where it has not been so far. [[12.20]] Unfortunately, in small settlements it is not uncommon for companies operating in the settlement, which are decisive in the life of the settlement, to function as an established organisation led by the mayor or his relative. The exclusion of these companies from the aid results in the total loss of aid of the two thousand or less settlements in question, as in many cases there is no other company in these small settlements except in which the mayor is involved. State aid is of crucial importance for the survival and development of small settlements, and therefore the municipality would be disproportionately offended if the Public Finance Act shut off the only economic company that provides for the needs of the settlement, such as the retail service. During the submission of the aid, several applications were made for the establishment of a small store which was the sole undertaking to establish the Aht. 48/B. § (1) cannot receive support on the basis of a legal framework, so the settlement will not be able to open the store. A number of applications have been received, where a limited company also maintains the only functioning convenience store in the municipality. It is therefore appropriate to grant aid under the urban development programme. Mr President, Dear House, In my opinion, the amendments mentioned above clearly serve the common good, and I therefore ask that you support the motion. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Vice-President Brenner Koloman, who is speaking from here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Let us start by saying that this is a salad law, in which there are very many amendments to the law before this House. There's a little loss of public money in there, there's a little talk in there, but it's mostly about the Hungarian university world. State Secretary Orbán started his expo a little further away, so allow me to begin my speech in a slightly broader context. Mr Secretary of State said that now, according to the Central Committee's decision, there can be no doubt that this is the best of university models. Allow me, as former university leader, to argue on several points. First of all, the kind of approach that the university senates would have voluntarily asked for it is more than cynical, Mr. Secretary of State. We all know how these Senate meetings took place: your minister or emissary went there with a rather, let's say, a PPT for managers, and promised grass and wood beetle, especially European Union money, which your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not want to pay from the European Union to the Hungarian university world now, because if Fidesz were to rule the law beyond the authority of one-party, then where would we get to and what conclusions. There is no debate between us, as Mr Secretary of State has rightly said, that the Hungarian university world is a priority nation strategy goal. Support for knowledge in the 21st century In the 20th century, which is a century of knowledge and information, only the Hungarian university world and its related environment, and through pedagogical training, the knowledge level of the entire society can be increased through the 21st century. In the century, all Hungarian citizens deserve the prosperity and freedom that they deserve 32 years after the change of regime. There is no debate between us either that the Hungarian university world should stabilise at 2% of GDP. At the same time, I think that the bill before us, as Mr State Secretary said, is a direct continuation of the model changes. As I said in the debates at the time, I never argued against the form of foundation, I always argued that this should not have been unleashed in such a forced form without prior impact assessments, without proper consultation, without consulting university leaders and university citizens, i.e. academics, students and employees, and therefore, of course, our national unit government, which will stand up after April 22 will review them. I myself have tabled a number of amendments in this House which would have ensured that we can protect the very important academic autonomy that has existed since the Middle Ages, despite the fact that you have designed the composition of these curators by filling them with Fidesz potentates only in the first place. And let's leave the cynicism that Katalin Szili is not fidesz right now; he who dares to say this on TV is, forgive me, but he goes beyond the usual fidesz cynicism. I think that the fact that these curators can practically extend themselves to endless times is the blow to the mouth, simply a blow to the face of the Hungarian university world and the important academic autonomy since the Middle Ages. I think that there have been many other versions, not only my proposal, which you voted against in Parliament, that ex officio, so that the board of trustees should be members of the university's elected leaders by office, but also, for example, a lot of other very good proposals have come to light, but you have not taken any into account. I'll give you some examples. The President of the Board of Governors shall be appointed by the Senate and the Minister on a consensus basis, not just by the Minister, as is currently the case. In the event of the resignation or death of a member elected by the Senate, the Senate may replace him again and, in particular, in the event of the death of the members of the Board of Governors, only the Senate may take his place on a consensus basis or only the Senate. The Senate should be entitled to evaluate the curatorium's activities annually and report to the board what it is doing. Every five years, we should strengthen the board of trustees for the Senate, or call them back if they're unhappy with it. I have just given you a few examples, with which you, if you really meant what the Secretary of State was talking about here, could have assured the wider Hungarian public that this is not about you practically trying to save the Hungarian university world in a way where the new government will not have jurisdiction in the event of a possible change of government. I would now like to say with all due respect that, in our new, stand-up national unity government, Jobbik will participate as the only right-wing, Christian-social party of the opposition, in order to stand up as rapporteur at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for university autonomy and academic freedom, and that in these reviews we will ask the elected university Senates to see that the order of life is restored. After all, no, Secretary of State, no, all international examples show that in Europe, because we are in Europe, not in the United States of America, where a completely different development process has led to the establishment of universities that you talked about in your expo, here in Europe, of all excellent universities and universities that are well placed in international rankings. State-owned and must be given the same amount of money to bleed out [[Balázs Orbán: Look at Finnish universities!]] to the Hungarian university world, where university teachers earn HUF 145 thousand net. There will be if there is a framework, research money, international ranking. Then and only then. This does not depend on whether we go through a change of model or not, but depends on my funding, because it is a national strategic value, the Hungarian university world, or I do not finance it. The fact that in the last 12 years Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have bled out the Hungarian university world is well known, and you have withdrawn funds from the budget in proportion. You've taken out resources, so it's accurate. You have also taken out resources, and this began with the setting up of the EMMI, where what has ceased to exist in a normally functioning government, in a government structure, is that the issue of education belongs to a ministry of education, from kindergarten education to the world of universities, to adult education, because I think everyone can see that this cannot be cut apart, as is in the current governance structure, that the area of education belongs to about three different ministries. It's ridiculous, there's an opaque process. We see what the result is. [[12.30]] The last point I really want to highlight is the so-called strategic plans. I've had the pleasure of drawing up a lot of these strategic plans as vice dean of strategy. Now, magic with indicators and other things, if I may say so, is very kind to my soul, because I've worked a lot with it, but I think, let's just say, this Excel table doesn't mean virtually any other way of working than the previous working method of giving this amount to the university world. I indicate that the total amount of higher education has always been around 400-500 billion, only the elementary budget was around 200 billion, so here it was really and there is some increase in resources, but I don't think that's going to weigh so much. I think the senates have since found out that they were fooled by the government, because they were promised much more money from EU funds, but this money has not arrived in our country. This proposal seeks to conceal in some way that this did not happen; that you, referring to this, forced the change of model into the university world at a forced pace, gleichschalting the entire university world, with one or two exceptions. Well, technically, let's face it, it's different from a small university in the country or, as the Secretary of State said, a Moholy-Nagy University, which is a small university with one or two majors. There is a form of foundation there, as I have always said in every debate, but in the case of a large university with many faculties, such as the University of Szeged or the University of Pécs, or the University of Debrecen, in this form there is no place for it, they must remain state-owned universities, and must be supported by the Hungarian state in particular. I think that this form now, from these months and years, both university citizens and university leaders will have plenty of experience, that if our national unity government stands up after April 2022, they will support our proposal in a review to restore fair and well-funded state higher education. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-21-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. First of all, allow me to thank my fellow Member, Mr Brenner Koloman, for his honesty here in the admission of how they performed their magic with the indicators at ELTE, although it may be up to the ELTE and the Ministry of Maintenance to investigate the magical practices that have taken place in the implementation of the strategy and the indicators. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic!]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have sat through countless debates here on the university model change strategy and specific university model changes, we have sat through countless debates here in the last few years, during the day, at night and at night, and you have said every time, of course, challenging the current bill that it is all just a balloon, because there will be no source for it, and you will not find any source for it, and the universities will not receive the historical resources promised to them anyway. [[Dr. István Hiller: Did you get it?]] Well, the thing is, my honourable fellow Member, you're here. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] , it is written here in black and white about the unprecedented university development and the unprecedented amounts that higher education institutions will receive in the coming years; I think that in itself is a huge thing. What I don't understand is why Brenner Koloman thinks that a European Union forint is better in development than a forint paid by the Hungarian government from the Hungarian budget. Why do we make a difference? Why do we again have this adjustment pressure that we are more pleased if the same development money comes from European Union funds for the same projects as if it came from the Hungarian budget? Why does the Member claim that they expected this money to come from European Union funds to higher education institutions, and that if it comes from the Hungarian budget now, it is less good? I think that it is as much a pleasure to support higher education institutions, whether it is a European Union resource or a Hungarian resource, and it is as much a pleasure to spend on the development of higher education as it is here together, for the purpose to be achieved and desired by you and all of us, to improve, improve and increase the resources of Hungarian higher education. I think it is clear that we want to build an effective, competitive and national higher education system since 2010, which is marketable, modern, XXI. It's a hundredth century, it's useful, it gives real knowledge, it's an exercise in addition to a diploma. The government created the higher education strategy in 2017 and, as a result, in recent years, there has been a great deal of development and government support for the modernisation of Hungarian higher education. In 2017, 14,000 teachers, researchers and teachers were involved in the government's complex higher education wage increase programme, which we would like to further develop. This also represents a 15-15 percent increase in wages in two stages, September 2021 and January 2022, and also covers institutions with state and religious reservations. In recent years, the development of a research funding system for universities has been completed, higher dual education has been strengthened, and the education strategy of Hungarian universities in the Carpathian Basin has been developed. The latter is also a sharp break in the policy of left-wing governments, as until 2010, there was no domestic government programme supporting foreign Hungarian language training. From September 2021, however, ten higher education institutions in the Carpathian Basin have been training in Hungarian, with nearly 3 thousand Hungarian students from abroad participating in the Carpathian Basin, supported by a Hungarian state scholarship in a form of funding. I think this is absolutely welcome. There has also been a complete renewal of the PhD training system, during which there have been increased scholarships and student numbers in four years of training, and cooperation-based PhD training has also been launched. In the first half of the four-year training, the scholarship increased to 140 thousand HUF/month, while in the second two years of the course it increased to 180 thousand HUF/month. During successful graduation, the PhD student receives a grant of HUF 400,000. We also managed to increase the number of students in Hungarian higher education. The number of higher education students has increased since 2018: the number of higher education students has increased by 10 370 in 2021 compared to 2020 and the number of foreign students has increased by 65 per cent by 2020. At the same time, international cooperation at home universities has improved significantly and we expect further improvements from the current model changes. It is also an important change that the Hungarian government also launched national college development plans worth HUF 220 billion in 2017. Although work is progressing here, I think this should be done much faster. There is a huge need for college seats across the country, so it is very important that this programme be accelerated in time, which, due to the Covid epidemic, has slowed down a little because of the pandemic, and now it should return to its original pace. This college development programme is progressing, as we have already heard from the Secretary of State, despite the fact that harmful PPP schemes in higher education still need to be replaced, as 54 PPP agreements are still in place under left-wing governments in 2014. Currently there are only 19 of these live PPP contracts, and 13 of them are still being replaced, which is expected, hopefully, to be completed this year. This means that 35 PPP contracts have been replaced since 2010, and 13 will be added this year. The government provided a total of 146 billion forints. Thanks to this, only at the end of 2020 nearly 6,000 college places were added to universities. There has also been a significant concentration of higher education development policy, in which the share of higher education graduates has been increased together by improving the quality and accessibility of higher education, strengthening the relevance of training in the labour market and ensuring the replacement of researchers. In recent years, Hungarian higher education has achieved a number of valuable results on an international scale, but our goal is no less than to make Hungarian higher education and the young Hungarians participating in it the winners of the future. To achieve these goals, there are serious, perhaps unprecedented, or last seen under Klebelsberg's ministry. The main amounts of higher education have doubled compared to the expenditure of left-wing governments, and by 2022 an even higher amount will be available, as we see here in the bill. My fellow Members and State Secretary spoke here about GDP expenditure. I think that we need to reach this desirable 2 percent as soon as possible and then we need to keep it there or above it, and with this we can also be top riders in the EU, which I also think is an outstanding achievement compared to a small country of 10 million. [[12.40]] Without exaggeration, we can say that we are living in historical times for the future of Hungarian higher education, and never before has a government spent as much money on higher education in Hungary as the national Christian Democratic Government has since 2022. My fellow Member also said that funding is essentially based on an Austrian model, the advantage of which is that it is carried out on the basis of pre-set performance indicators in medium-term financing taking into account the specificities of the various tasks. Due to the efficiency of the Austrian sample, it is also worth following the fact that only four Austrian universities from our region have entered the top 250 for the time being in the Times Higher Education 2022 world ranking in September 2021. In the same World Higher Education ranking in 2022, Hungarian higher education has already clearly been better placed, since it has 11 Hungarian universities instead of 9 last year. These are undisputed results from Hungarian higher education. On the rankings, Semmelweis University is ranked 277, making huge progress from last year's 426th place. This represents 149 places in a single year, which is the second largest European university in the world. With this amazing performance, Semmelweis University has become one of the best universities in Central Europe, and the best Polish and Czech universities are far from following it. The Jagello University in Warsaw is 529th and Charles University in Prague is 544th. All conditions for further higher education success will now be given. Since September 2021, more than 180,000 students start their studies in a model-shifting institution, i.e. nearly 70 percent of students. In addition, there is a significant proportion of institutions with church reservations, 30,000 persons, and six other institutions remain in state reserve. Universities could decide on institutional change. My fellow Member has already mentioned that 87 percent of the Senate members supported this. In some places, it was 100 percent, in some, it reached 50-60 percent, but in total, we can talk about 87 percent. That's why I didn't understand when Brenner Koloman said we knew what the Senate colleagues had decided. I think that everyone, especially the professionals, researchers and instructors involved in university leadership, can only assume the best that everyone has decided and decided to change this model in recent years as a free man. There are 13 percent who, I hope, will make sure, on the basis of the current law and the results of the coming years, that this change of model was correct, improves competitiveness, significantly increases international room for manoeuvre and can make significant improvements. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have talked about university development here, but we have not yet talked about science parks or lab development related to them. I think it is very important to develop national labs that will take place in these model-changing institutions. Here we can see how huge resources, nearly HUF 47 billion, are being spent by the government on lab development. We need XXI. Serious laboratories of the century in these model-shifting institutions. You usually talk about private universities, but Mr State Secretary has also made it clear that we are talking about trust funds for public purposes. All wealth belongs to the university, and all wealth and development resources must serve university citizenship and our common goal, the rise of national higher education. Those who do not act accordingly commit a crime against national higher education. I hope that everyone will continue to do so in the near future, and that, at a later stage, reaching and perhaps exceeding 2% of GDP, Hungarian young people can be the winners of the Hungarian future in all higher education institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Vice-President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-71	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In the debate of this bill, it is worth asking ourselves the first question: could it undoubtedly be held in the Hungarian Parliament roughly three quarters of a year before the next election? Professional arguments are answered by professional arguments. I note that in a parliamentary meeting where elected representatives and members of the government are sitting, that professional debates are also surrounded by political arguments, it is not a disoriented idea, because the electorate has sent us here to represent their will, or to express, in favour of professional arguments, the difference of opinion which is, by the way, a good thing in a democracy. Therefore, the fact that political arguments appear in favour of professional arguments in a legislative act, in an elected parliamentary assembly, is very appropriate. It is also appropriate and I hope that we can say this together, because it can strengthen the feeling in the electorate that they can decide on the basis of which they vote for one idea or another political community. In this respect, we do not need to focus on how many people are participating in today's debate, but on giving the electorate the opportunity to be informed if they want to. In this regard, the argument put forward by the opposition representative before me, Vice-President Brenner, is very appropriate. Therefore, if I may, I would focus not on these arguments, but on other types, extending the circle that expresses the opinion, the difference of opinion. By the way, my goal is not to say no, compared to what you say, my goal is to express my own experience and opinion. I'm not saying "B" because you're saying "A," because if you were to say what I think you are, I'd still be brave enough to say that I do. Therefore, the situation is as follows: the first question should be asked in the autumn of 2021 about what you were able to do for 11 years. For the 12th year, they have ruled with two thirds, they tell us how high the Hungarian higher education is in politics as a whole, then we just have to ask: we are glad that they have realized this, but 11 years of thinking is a lot for a philosopher to find out the truth, but a government should have known this sooner. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: We cleaned up the ruins!]] It's not that you haven't done anything in higher education, but everything you've done since 2010, exactly since 2011, you've either proven to be wrong, or you just haven't gone through the system, or it turns out you can't afford it. The primary regulation law of Hungarian higher education is the work called the National Higher Education Act in the autumn of 2011. Please feel free to say that professionally it's a very vile job, a very weak creation. Not politically, specifically professionally. It is no coincidence that they were forced to modify their law adopted in 2011 at several points, which happened to be at the points of substance, so that they put a strategy for higher education on the table with the title "Development in Hungarian Higher Education" - which, although I have argued on many points, is undoubtedly a debateable work, a series of ideas that formulate professionally strong claims. That strategy has nothing to do with any amendment to the bill that has been tabled over the past period, and it has nothing in the world to do with it. Nothing. From that strategy, I respectfully say to you, let's simply call the concept of universities that are reserved for the foundation. [[12.50]] Not only because if you look into it, I have done it, there are three times in that concept the term "the foundation" is mentioned, twice in a footnote. There, from what their government accepted on this basis thought to guide Hungarian higher education in the second half of the decade, it cannot be derived from that concept in any way, in terms of content, text, or funding. The question must be asked then, however, that after all this thinking, after creating a failed law, after the corrections, and after a new strategy, we manage to introduce a new concept at such high speed, with such great promises, so quickly, well, not exactly in 2021, a year before the elections. For anyone who does not see the connection between the events of 2021 and the elections in Hungary in 2022 is either blind or simply does not understand the thinking that you govern. Another very interesting question has to be asked, since 21 of the 27 state-owned universities to date will be foundations, 6 will not. Not to go into a previous debate about how, in this very fine proportion, people of science are actually voting on the government's proposal, and how the planned and promised funding is connected to this, I have to do a half sentence here. When the university senates voted, you did not say, like you did now, this funding, you at all, and indeed not only the leaders of higher education, but at the highest level of your government, from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance, to other amounts, from a completely different source, at a very different time. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's what they tell each one of them.]] There's a chart here, I'll talk about it. For the sake of the facts and the record, let us state that the Senates that voted then and there, this model of funding, these numbers and these tables were not known at all. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: They made it!]] However, you may be familiar with other promises that did not contain this. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Dr. Balázs Orbán: They made it!]] The point is! That it wasn't in that knowledge that the Senate voted. One more question has to be asked, the question is, why are those who do not belong in this particular 21-circle? Let's mention two universities, there are more of us, and by the way, one can safely take the bias towards the mathematics of the apple, but at the moment there are several of us in Parliament, who can safely announce such bias in connection with two universities, one being the Budapest University of Technology and the other being the Eötvös Loránd University. Please do not doubt that it is the very important persons, groups, departments and institutions of Hungarian science and scientific research that can be found in these two institutions. In the very wide palette of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, our numerous academic and internationally recognized excellence lived and works between the walls of these two institutions. It is a great pleasure for me that they had enough wisdom not to join this line. Because, if you do not question the great results of other universities, other institutions, which will be worth mentioning, but to these two institutions, there was not such a strong government offer as to express quite diplomatically what they have done, how they should be transformed, because otherwise, you are not sure at all about this. You do not believe in this success at all, and you are right in this respect. So, as a great argument, I was given Mr. Nacsa's statement on the success of the University of Semmelweis, we congratulate the great university on this success, however I consider it, as a state-reserved institution. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Therefore, if the University of Semmelweis, as a state-owned institution, achieves such an excellent result as you have described in such detail, I must ask why, if it is so successful, it needs to be transformed. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] So how's that? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is also necessary to ask the real directors of the institutions, according to the criteria in which the board of trustees of the foundations came, what composition they were in and why. It would be completely unnecessary to make a false argument, because in this interview on Friday morning, the Prime Minister, I think he was telling the truth. I quote:, and, as appropriate, when we set up these foundations and ask the curators, we will invite such people there. who have this national approach. In the first place, I would like to say that for me, the term "the national" and its content are strong and sacred. That's not what I'm arguing. I'm arguing whether national is a scientific category. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: What do you mean?!]] The question is whether any of these ideological aspects are otherwise high-quality or not in the management of the curatoriums. 'Cause I can imagine a national emotional person with an excellent ability and someone who doesn't. And I can imagine, in your view, let's say, a liberal emotional person with excellent abilities and someone who doesn't. For me, it is an institution, in the professional leadership of a universe, in its financial management, that cannot be considered, but I understand what this is about, and that is what the story is about. But to explain this, I have to tell you something else, because it has been said that this model change takes place on an Austrian model. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The funding!]] Please, I suggest that we discuss what the Austrian model is then, because what I see here I have had the opportunity to work, research and teach at an Austrian university, that is for sure. I tell you that in Austria, the four most prestigious universities, the Universität Wien, the Universität Graz, the Universität Salzburg and the Universität Klagenfurt, are all state-owned universities, all of them. In the first hundred, there is no doubt an army of foundations on the list of rankings they were talking about, but there is not one, there is not one, there is none that has become a state university; there is, by the way, a university that is such as the Alvar Aalto University in Finland, but that is not included in the first hundred. So, unfortunately, the two arguments do not work out. Finally, two other aspects. I'd like to ask you why this chart is for four years. Because a politician sees political cycles as elected representatives for four years, it's clear, but I simply don't understand the age limit of four years in the life of a university student or a university professor or university. I've got three, I've got five, I've got six, but I've got four, there's no point. Therefore, I think that this is a very political calculation. I can imagine an institution where there is three years of training, where there is five years of training and where it works as in medical universities, but four is not a point. I therefore claim to you that the purpose of this law is to convert current power and not to raise the quality of Hungarian higher education. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Which, by the way, could be a great goal for all of us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-09-21-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-73	Thank you very much. Let me begin by agreeing with Mr Secretary of State that the type of crisis management model that has withdrawn money from human services and human areas is not an effective model, and I am pleased to hear the words of the Secretary of State; it is a pity that when, in the framework of the Széll Kálmán plan, very significant funds were taken from universities, among other things, and when wages were frozen after 2010, including those of colleges and colleges, it did not bother you. [[13.00]] How am I supposed to put this delicately? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Brenner Koloman's salary!]] The Secretary of State also has problems with the evaluation of the splinters and beams. But, I'm telling you, I'm glad that we agree that it's the right thing to do, to spend more on human space, that part of what you have to say was extremely important and good. One little problem: this law has very little to do with it, and I will prove it. So there are a few questions that you won't answer. The first question is a technical but important question: where is Minister Palkovics? Where's Secretary Bodis? As far as I know, although it is difficult to follow this in your government's rampage, higher education is still managed by the Ministry of Innovation and Secretary of State Bodis, it is their responsibility. Of course, I understand that there are things a college man doesn't give his name to, and I can accept that, but don't hide it by saying that this is a law of higher education. You and the Prime Minister's Office are leading this because it is clearly not a professional law, but a law for economic and political purposes. The second question is, where's the extra money, because you're talking about happy billions, although, compared to what, 330 billion, you're not telling me how many years you're talking about 330 billion. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You have to read the law!]] He doesn't talk about it. You don't speak for nothing, because if you don't talk about the lyrics, you don't talk about dreams, you draw up a law that determines how much the state spends, and it's not this law, it's called a budget law, it doesn't have that source, Mr. Secretary of State. You are distributing a lot of money here, but unfortunately you have forgotten to put the funds into the budget, namely: you have rejected the opposition amendments aimed at increasing the resources of higher education. The next question is, we understand, but why do we need the foundation? Suppose they create the source, we have just discussed at the previous item on the agenda that the government is virtually free to cross all budgetary limits, obviously, if they wish, they will do so. All right, they have money, extra money for higher education. I am sure that the Members in this Chamber, whether they are opposition or pro-government, will say hurrah and finally. But I can suggest a very simple solution: withdraw this entire fundraiser and give this money to higher education institutions. They will know how to use this [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They already knew!]] In order for higher education to function in a good quality, they know how to operate the institutions effectively and will increase wages. They didn't raise wages because they were state higher education, but because they didn't have a budget. So what I have to say is that you don't give this money to the universities, that's not what it's about, you have to read the bill, you give this money to the Fidesz foundations, on the grounds that this is going to be university money. This proposal is about the loss of many, many billion forints of public money, entering a foundational world where we can only hope that this will be a real amount of higher education money and higher education. However, there may also be a system exempted from public procurement, which is one of the most important elements of the foundation system that you set up, which will take away a significant part of this money without much benefit for higher education or students. Because the fourth question is where the criteria are. You have said beautifully here that this will be the way the funding will be, and such a consideration will be given to you. But there's no sign of that. You know, my fellow Members, that today a regulation has laid down, for a very long time, the way in which higher education has been financed since the change of regime. It's a familiar, public set of rules that you've pretty much smashed up since 2010 with all kinds of loopholes, and I don't want to say "face money," because it wouldn't be polite, so, you've been handing out academic support based on personal sympathy, but there's a basic system for that. You will now conclude financing contracts, but who knows on what basis. The aspects of this are not known, they are not included in the law. The amount will be told, but it is also said that there will, of course, be a derogation, and there will be a separate contract, obviously for someone who behaves well and deserves it. So I have to say that, contrary to your claim, this is not actually creating a predictable and performance-based system, on the contrary, they are bringing in a piece of paper and saying that, now, this university is entitled to this, and they are asking for a parliamentary mandate, which will obviously be granted by the excellent Fidesz Members, without any idea of how much money the University of Pécs or the University of Miskolc needs, what they are spending on, what will happen from this. What you're doing here is a continuation of the same technique that the entire foundation system is about. Public funds for higher education will be disposed of in a black box, where we don't know where, by the way, the basis on which the money will come out. Something, a board of foundations, but carefully selected fidesz, I almost said that they were professionals, but that would be a huge exaggeration, so, people with Fidesz trust are sitting, let's put it mildly, these curatoriums are going to decide what happens to them, what they're using it for, what it's good for. One thing they will certainly use it for, to pay their own salary, is the example that there are quite nice claims in these board of trustees and supervisory councils. All in all, I can say that what you are doing now is a continuation of the failed, professionally wrong university privatisation for political purposes only. Your intention is that, once you know you're going to lose the election, otherwise you'll be able to pre-contonate the money you're going to get every year and spend it. I have to tell you, I know you don't like hearing people dream about it, but you won't. The next government will terminate this construction, and otherwise it will provide funding to universities and not to some kind of foundations. So the money for higher education must be in the interests of the students, the country, and not some kind of curatorium toy. Let us not forget, however, and this is the fifth question of how the rest of the bill is here anyway. Because while we were listening to the Secretary of State's exposé, we might have thought that this was a law for higher education purposes only, but that is not the case. My fellow Members, Mr Fidesz, excuse me, and Mr Nacsa, as a KDNP, forgot to mention that, for example, this proposal gives two high-value properties to a church organization. They forgot to remember that this bill, by the way, gives the Hungarian Development Bank a significant relief in funding. They forgot to remember that the law amends the law on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition, and thus allows State aid to be allocated without prejudice to a certain threshold of market conflicts. Mr Kovács mentioned it, but let us add the other part, by the way, this amendment also allows the mayors and their family's shops to receive support for the operation of a convenience store. It is certainly in the interest of a certain circle, but I must add that, to put it mildly, it is a strong opportunity to control mayors with financial means, and they are inclined to do so anyway, and it certainly does not serve either the purity of competition or the cost-effective solutions. I would like to mention that there is also a part of this bill, which we support, including the amendment on victim protection, victim assistance. If this hadn't been brought in in in such a salad, mixed with everything, then there would have been a bill that would certainly have agreed and a professional debate could have been held. Unfortunately, however, since this was submitted at the same time, we will be forced to reject the bill. [[13.10]] This bill does not serve the interests of higher education, and it has one main purpose: through different techniques, additional public funds can be taken out to private foundations, church organizations, sympathetic mayors and other purposes. And we will not give you any support for this, on the contrary, these amounts will be accounted for by you next year. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask you now if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-09-21-75	Mr President, thank you for the floor. This is not the first time I have been present in these debates; for the first time, I would like to comment briefly. Some of my backgrounds, I have a foundation, I've worked in higher education for 34 years as an instructor, but I do know a segment of it. During the process, I can now distinguish several phases from the first I didn't know that was the case. When the definition of public money in the Constitution was amended, I could not place it; when public-interest trust foundations were established, it became clear why and how this was related. Allow me to continue to use the popular or unpopular name KEKVA for public trust funds. These foundations received the asset relief and are now receiving the annual grant. Of course, I know very well that this has a clear public goal, the operation of higher education institutions, but at the same time it is clear that foundations are also disposing above this amount. There has also been the uploading of curatoriums to persons, plus the supervisory board is 150-200 people. My fundamental question is that if higher education institutions, in the professional capacity, are capable of being at the forefront of the world, and the financial background is the only thing missing, then why can this material background function properly only if it is resolved as a non-state institution, of course, with the right rights for the institution, with autonomy, as we have seen, and it was able to solve it in medicine, only if it is managed through foundations and even through private foundations. 'Cause, you know, it could have come up with a public foundation that the government was creating, and then... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: This is a public foundation!]] Secretary of State, public foundations operate what a government creates, and I was in it, for example, the Illyés Public Foundation. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: It's gone!]] that you are there in that foundation because you are a State Secretary, because you are in such a public foundation State Secretary Levente Magyar, because he is a State Secretary, and at that time you enjoy the public trust because you are on the government. But, Mr. Secretary, you're here as a private individual. Let's assume that you won't be in government from 2022, because I don't want to put an immediate question level into a new setup you'll find better than you. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: But the public foundation was crushed by the socialists!]] From then on, you will remain as an individual. From then on, you will not be replaced by another Secretary of State. And your appointment, God give you a long life. It's for the rest of their lives. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: The socialist friends forced him out!]] If you think someone else should be in there instead of you, then the foundation itself will decide who gets in. It's a total vassal system. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yes!]] This starts with the emperor, the king, appointing barons, giving titles, giving the barons, where appropriate, wealth, land, where he gives wealth, possibly even benefits and personally, and creating a caste. It's a feudal system. The KEKVA barons caste this layer, which will now solve this task. I don't understand what this horror is about now that the state is a bad farmer. Well, that was in the early '90s. That's why the privatisation was! It was done in a way, with the principle that was not true, dogmatically treated that the state was a bad farmer. Now we see that the state is the owner of higher education, giving the institutions sufficient self-determination, this is impossible, it can only be resolved through a private foundation. This means to me in its entirety that what we call restructuring here is the aim of maintaining Fidesz party control of higher education, regardless of the change of government. And it doesn't have to be Fidesz, it's got to be those who are loyal. So I can only say that, obviously, now, you're abusing most of them, we have to acknowledge that you're creating this, but you can't accept it. It is necessary to find the means of rule of law that create the condition that higher education should remain under the control of the public. By the way, Congressman Nacsa is no longer here, but I will tell you so much when he talks about the difference between this source provided by the Hungarian State, for example, that he took out a loan or that he was a European Union source. For us, there would be no difference, there is a difference for you, because you do not want to accept that the funds from the European Union are being checked for that purpose. They're trying to avoid control! You do not want it to be a situation such as that in the Elios case, when the European Union reveals the deceitfulness of this matter and does not pay it from that point on. So this is the fundamental difference, for which we do not say that it is better money; that money is good money, the good source that is guaranteed and controlled for the purpose for which it is intended. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Vice President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President, for a proper speech.
u2021-09-21-77	Mr President, I would like the Secretary of State's opinion and answer in particular on a specific matter. There could be other parliamentary genres to discuss, but speaking of higher education, I will. I'm trying to put it in a way that makes sense when I'm talking about one person. It's not about personalizing, it's about the phenomenon. As a scientist, Professor Bodis, who was the former Rector of the University of Pécs, I particularly appreciated his performance at the time, and I still think of him in this way, so this story is not about him, while I have to present through him what is the system as a whole. What is happening is that the State Secretary for Higher Education, after the foundational outsourcing of one of our rural universities, will be the chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation, and this will happen when he is the number one person responsible for higher education in the government in professional terms. It's not okay, please. [[13.20]] It can't be that someone's practically assigning himself to an office that he's going to be in prison for. It is not right that this man should be in the system that we clearly do not accept, and the next day he is the number one government man in charge of Hungarian higher education. That's why I'm asking you to show me how this can be done. How is it that a secretary of state, who is responsible for the territory, appoints himself as one of its own leaders for the rest of his life? In a previous debate, the case of one of the famous Berlin universities, where the curatorium is the mayor of Berlin. However, the figure is that he is not the current person, but the mayor of Berlin. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] The question is not who, at the moment, is Hungary's Minister of Justice or Foreign Affairs. The question is, what kind of driver's license is going to be a state-established board of trustees, a lifelong member of a university leadership. 'Cause if I... memorize that system, I'd argue with that system, it'd just be a completely different argument and a different edge. The fact that the state, if any, is a city that hosts a higher education institution, delegates the current mayor to the curatorium is a controversial statement, but not A, B or C forever. And it's particularly repulsive that, once again, the Secretary of State of a given field, in this sense, although he says that he has accepted the request, but, well, he is the Secretary of State for Higher Education, who makes himself the President of a Board of Higher Education institution, with the agreement of the Minister and Prime Minister. I would very much like, once again, to discuss the phenomenon, not the person, because it is not the act of a person, but the phenomenon that is unacceptable to us, and which I always object to, I would object to, regardless of what kind of government there is or what kind of government there is not. This exercise is unacceptable! Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-09-21-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, as rapporteur, if you would like to answer the debate. It's an integral part of my script, which is why I put it up, and it goes without saying that you want it. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I confess honestly, I listened to opposition speeches, and sometimes I felt like Dorothy in the realm of the Wizard of Oz, so that I was enchanted by all the findings that were completely out of line with reality, the thoughts that were completely negative, parentheses of reality that were said here. It is very difficult for me to do with this, because I am relatively young in politics, and I have been involved in politics, and I have started to deal with Parliament as a university lecturer by the way that I think it is a serious matter of the type of debate that takes place here, political, political, everything. Compared to this, seeing what reality is, so what kind of argument systems are colliding or working, I'd say they're working against each other, that's, sometimes I feel depressing. Let me give you two examples. For example, Vice-President Brenner Koloman is attacking us by subtracting money from higher education, while here is a bill on two-and-a-half-fold increase in operating costs. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] and Mr Brenner Koloman is running in a political alliance with Mr Gergely Arató, who was State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, who specifically took the Member's university salary. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm saying it's really a spell. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman and Gergely Arató keep interrupting.]]
u2021-09-21-80	Congressmen!
u2021-09-21-81	So it's a spell that he's running with that man in a political alliance... [[Gergely Harvesto keeps interrupting.]]
u2021-09-21-82	Congressman Harvester, you're a notary.
u2021-09-21-83	... who took part of his salary and accused us of withdrawing the money from higher education. It's quite surreal. The other thing is, if Vice-President Hiller will allow us to do so, I think we will answer the subject of the Curatoriums, and Secretary of State Bodis is an excellent example, and let us not talk about the person, but about the phenomenon. With regard to the person, in connection with the phenomenon, it was said that he was a scientist who was a local patriot of Pécs and a university leader, and at the moment he was invited to play a role in the modernisation of the University of Pécs. I don't think there's anything more appropriate to imagine. And it's true, I know this opposition narrative, that there are people with different fidesz connections here and there. I've collected it with my colleagues on purpose, and there's less than 20 percent of those whose political affiliations can be detected in public. And this includes not only politicians, but non-political actors whose political manifestation has been, let's say, in public over the last five years, well below 20%. Besides, there are college people, businessmen, local patriots, state and political leaders. I think these are the exact paths of life, these characters, they can bring buoyancy and energy into the system. The other, when I felt in the wonder of miracles or in the realm of the great sorcerer, when Vice President Hiller, on the one hand, was concerned about university autonomy, worried about poor oppressed university teachers, and then, on the other hand, looked at them in contempt and hung them down by saying how they could be such sheep, that they supported the university model change 90 percent by the way. So the two statements can't be true at the same time. Or we say that university people know that they can appreciate the world around them, they can make rational decisions. If the government doesn't give them the right information, because that may be, so what you claim is that you didn't have information there, it's a possible scenario, but then independent university people who teach our children should be able to vote no. And these people voted 90 percent yes. Obviously, the scenario that you outlined and offer your own voters the solution to this contradiction is that those people must have been led, it simply doesn't cover reality. After all, without any political interference, it is completely free, with the information available at all universities, even in Szeged, that the majority of the Senate has decided to voluntarily start this model change. With this, their entire narrative, their entire approach to you, the left, will be leaked to such a degree, so an Achilles heel of the statement system that is opposed to us, which I think is indissolvable, and we will get to the conclusion that we will probably not be having a political or political debate based on facts, but that we are talking about some religious struggle that will be concluded in the April or May 22 of the electorate. In this connection, I would just like to correct a few technical details. How did these plans work out? Because here it was said that we do not see any concrete plans. These are the plans that universities have formulated. So these are the resources that the universities asked for. I understand that here Vice President Brenner said that there was a socialization in the university leaders, or at least at ELTE, that they did not take it seriously, but that is because Vice President Brenner was a university leader when the Prime Minister of Hungary was called Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] who made sports... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] (Dr. Brenner Koloman keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell. ) Why? I'm sorry, weren't you a college leader after 2002? (Dr. Brenner Koloman interrupts.)
u2021-09-21-84	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President. Vice President Brenner, if you're in charge, how will you lead this meeting if you tolerate this debate?
u2021-09-21-85	I'm going to see if you haven't held a leading position in college between 2002 and 2010, and I'm going to apologize, if so, then I'm right. That's a fact, you can't argue with that. [[13.30]] So maybe in that system, the university leadership got so socialized that they asked for different plans at the Ministry every week and every month, and they didn't turn up anything. You may be surprised to find he's here, but what's happened now is that what's written up, what's put there at the end of the plans, is what you'll get. You're gonna get those! And from now on, I don't understand why this is a bad position for the university. The other part is that it is true that funding is fixed for four years, but let us compare it with that, for example, all university leaders had to lobby the minister before 2010 so that next year's budget would be in order [[Dr. István Hiller: No...]] 'Cause that's how the budget bill was supposed to blow up the money year after year. That's how we had to loot the resources. [[Dr. István Hiller: Three-year agreement...]] Yeah, I just haven't always been able to keep the agreements. Obviously, of course, it can be said that the global economic crisis has come and the environment has changed, but it has been said that in the end, those who have lynched there every year and have received those funds have come to the source of funding. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Now it's in Parliament's law, for a long time ahead. There is a long-term financing contract, and there is a legal guarantee scheme that explicitly highlights the first period. Here was a bit of a fuss that now it's an Austrian model, not an Austrian model. The system itself, the foundation form in Europe, where there has been a change in recent years, can be set as a Finnish example. It is true that the Finnish university example is not yet in the top 100, but if you look, Mr Vice President, at the changes that have taken place in that university in terms of international ranking over the last ten years, you will see that there is a massive and convincing progress. So the model is Finnish, and the financing system in which there is a basic funding and a performance-based financing is Austrian. By the way, this is really a philosophical debate, but I would like to draw the attention of the honourable left-wing representatives to the fact that if we look at the top 100 universities, we don't find many European universities there, we find a few, but the best universities are in the West and the East. So the United States of America is still holding still and the East comes up brutally, not only China but also Southeast Asia and other territories. So the European university system, European R &amp; D, European higher education is not specifically on its zenith, but has problems. The other issue is that there are established systems there for hundreds of years, in the German world rather on the side of public funding; the British model is a specific model, and everyone tries different ways, but the European university funding models used as examples are respect for the exception, so obviously a Heidelberg and a Science Po are not a success story. The other thing I wanted to say was that, on the one hand, the allegations that there would be no public procurement in these systems are not a true law. That these agreements will not be public, that is simply not true, it is stipulated by the law. I would like to say to Mr Balczó that the public foundation model can be taken as an example. The public foundation model began to be dismantled before 2010, because the government between 2006 and 2010 was disturbed by the autonomy that the public foundations had, and by legal and financing means they themselves had nicely dismantled that model. Therefore, this policy issue must be clarified here in the negotiations of the left-wing primary allies. Secondly, if I may, Vice-President Hiller, I think that the national approach is an important thing. I, too, think that "national" is not a party political category, so we agree on that. And part of the thing is that the university, by the way, represents universal knowledge, because the knowledge taught at the university may be a small exception, but it might be a philosophical debate, and I wouldn't go into it as a universal type, but I did it on purpose by Harvard University itself, while I was preparing my former legendary rector Charles William Eliot, who said that the American university couldn't be a simple copy of the foreign institution. The U.S. University is an unprecedented institution, he said, and it is uniquely national. So the idea that although knowledge is universal, universities are national in nature and serve national strategic goals [[Zoltán Balczó: Fudan!]] In fact, research, education, must give a national character [[Zoltán Balczó: This is Fudan!]] And to do so, we need people who can represent this national character, an idea that appears in the West, appears in the East, and I think that we Hungarians would be foolish to push this idea away from ourselves because of simple political battles. This should be drawn closer to us, and based on this, we should look at the history of university transformation. The other, and that would be my last comment, because in a page cut, we also talked about the transformation of public education: so that the transformation of public education in 2011 and the creation of Klebelsberg centres were a multi-stage process, in which there was also a corrective element, so there was a correction after the adoption of the 2011 law, there is no debate between us. I think that the system is now in place, and today the tensions that were at the beginning are no longer typical of the system of governance of public education, but I still don't understand... and I say this as a conservative person, the criticism from the left that this kind of centralization of public education that we did because the system was so sporadic, the structure of public education was so unfair, because the rich municipalities held good schools, the poor municipalities didn't have money and there were bad education systems. There were bad education systems! [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And there are children's progress in the social field, social mobility is exactly what doesn't apply, because anyone born from a good neighborhood, born from a good family, went to a good school, held by a rich municipality, had a chance to break out, and those who didn't have a chance. And this was caused by the previous system, the decentralised system that used to work. So, on a left-wing basis, on this type of centralization, which is capable of balancing these territorial differences and creating a better situation for social progress than the previous one, I think it is very, very difficult to argue against it from left-wing logic, so then it remains for us conservatives and right-wingers to defend this approach, because we believe that this system, this current system of public education, is the prerequisite for the emergence of the most difficult ones. This is also the case in higher education, and that would be the last sentence I would say that Hungarian children cannot move forward if Hungarian higher education and Hungarian universities are not among the best universities in the world. We are working on this, and this bill supports it. Thank you very much for supporting the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Amendments may be submitted by the end of the meeting. It follows now that certain domestic laws are subject to the 9th amendment of the Fundamental Law and XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. General debate on the draft law-related amendment until closure. The government referral is T/17054. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, to present the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-87	Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before this House is intended to ensure consistency with the 9th amendment of the Fundamental Law and with the law on the coordination of defence and security activities. [[13.40]] According to the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, with effect from 1 July 2023, the number of special legal order periods will be reduced from six to three, and it is therefore appropriate to adapt the use of the term to this in the relevant sectoral rules, because the rules on entities involved in armed defence and security activities are designed to create a more modern and effective system that better adapts to the changing security environment. Therefore, the amendments contained in the bill contain mainly technical transpositions, thereby ensuring the coherence of the legal system. The proposal contains six amendments to the following laws: amendments to the law on the police, the law on water management, national security services, the protection of classified data, the amendment of disaster management and related laws, and the law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Dear Parliament, The Law on the Coordination of Defence and Security Activities complements so far the sector's operation with the framework of overall government coordination and effective cooperation. This is aimed at strengthening the security awareness of society. It should be possible to prepare both the forces, organisations involved in the defence and citizens in advance to know and address any security challenges affecting them. The overall government crisis management, the implementation of tasks related to the provision of special legal order tasks and the management of damages are carried out through the central body of defence and security management. However, there may be a need for immediate intervention in the management of various damage events; coordinated, interlinked activities of the organisations involved in remedial actions can ensure effective event management. This will also ensure intervention in cases where coordination at the general government level is not necessary in view of the gravity and extent of the event. In order to safeguard the security of life and property, every minute counts, so it is essential that the organisations concerned react quickly. Dear House, The rules for the control of major accidents involving dangerous substances are laid down in the Disaster Protection Act. It is appropriate to amend the term "collection' containing minor events for the name of the event related to dangerous substances. Thus, there is a clear distinction between a minor disorder associated with a dangerous activity and the concept of a sectoral malfunction for regulatory practitioners. The official investigation of these events shall be carried out by the industry safety authority in order to strengthen prevention. The law on the coordination of defence and security activities introduces the concept of a coordinated defence situation. The Water Management Act defines the system of national management of flood and inland water protection, which is typically an area where the imposition of coordinated protection activities may be necessary, and therefore the legislation is supplemented by this reference to the legal institution. The present draft law thus ensures the coherence of the legal system by bringing the provisions of the Law on the Ninth Amendment to the Fundamental Law and on the Coordination of Defence and Security Activities into the various laws on home affairs. Dear Parliament, The bill before you promotes harmonisation of laws, easier interpretation of the law, the application of uniform terminology. I ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] (Sándor Szabó in the notary seat) Replaced by gullible Dezso.)
u2021-09-21-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-21-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring, we adopted the law on the coordination of defence and security activities. This law, as Mr Secretary of State has said, has laid the foundations for our country's renewable defence structure in line with the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. The law thus sets out a legislative obligation for almost all sectors to build up a new system in time for changes to the Fundamental Law that will enter into force on 1 July 2023. The bill before us primarily complies with this legislative obligation and opens six domestic laws. Most of the laws to be amended are due to a change in legislative coherence. Laws on police, law enforcement and the protection of classified data, for example, provide simple terminology clarification. It is included in the national protection management system of the Water Management Act, as Minister of State has said, a reference to the legal institution for coordinated defence activities. The amendment of the law on national security services gives the head of the central body of defence and security administration the power of qualification. The amendment of the Disaster Protection Act is more breathtaking than the former, but there is no difference in objectives, which remains primarily the framework and alignment of the law on coordination of defence and security activities. The coordination of disaster control, as Mr Secretary of State has said in his expozee, will be primarily the responsibility of disaster protection as long as the weight and extent of the event is not so significant as to justify total government action. In this case, therefore, if there is reason to do so, coordination will be taken over by the central body of defence and security management. The proposal before us amends the classification of accidents involving dangerous substances. It introduces weighting and separates events that can be handled at operational level from major accidents. In addition, the introduction of the term territorial protection committee and the amendment concerning the definition and strengthening of the administrative tasks of mayors are also intended to establish legislative coherence. I would like to stress that these amendments do not appear to be so significant in themselves, they do not appear to be very significant, but they do relate to the transformation of the system of special legal cases contained in the Fundamental Law, and in this context to the renewal of our defence and security nets, and therefore have a very important role to play in the future. The aim is to build a new, more flexible and more precise system of coordination and faster intervention, which can respond better to the increasingly unpredictable security challenges of today. In line with the framework law on protection and security adopted in spring, a review and updating of sectoral legislation is now under way, so we are expected to see a number of legislative amendments in the future. I think we are on the right track, and that is why I can say that the Fidesz fraction will support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The ninth amendment of the granite Fundamental Law brought about the situation that, as of 1 July 2023, the entire legal element of protection measures and special legal situations will be re-regulated. From the secretary of state mentioned in the expoze, the direction in which the previously fragmented conditions and the situations that have been under constant construction and absolving since 90 have been reduced, simplified or merged. With this and with regard to the current chapter amendments, because this essentially includes certain sectoral chapter amendments to the existing law, what was also the criticism of the first and the underlying law was that although, at some point, I think, it was given time shortly before the end of one of the sessions, perhaps, to have a pan-European, multi-party consultation on this, in essence, less participation in the process of conciliation by the parties, but this is the problem of the parties, but what I would like to say is that professional organisations may not have had the time to agree on this either. [[13.50]] (Gelencsér Attila Takes over the notary seat. ) It is clear that there is still time to modify the system until it enters into force. Perhaps it would have been better to lead through a much longer debate and a much longer preparatory phase of the bill itself, and then we should not always and always add something to it. Nevertheless, it is necessary to redefine the system, even if we have already criticised individual legal institutions and specific legal systems in the debate. I don't want to reopen these. These changes will be substantially modified and technical changes will be made. We thought it would have been more elegant to entrust such changes to a new Parliament, the next Parliament, which was expected to meet at the end of spring in 2022 at the beginning of summer, and that it would re-regulate legislation on the whole special legal and security and protection situations and related measures in addition to two-thirds decisions. This may not have been the time to accept it, but the 2022 Parliament. So I can only say that, just as we did not support the previous and perhaps the underlying bill, we are most likely not going to support this either. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, That is what I wanted to say, as did my fellow Member Luke, that we have already discussed the special rule of law here in the long debate on the constitutional amendment. At the time, it was possible to explain who thought that, on the basis of experience and experience over the past 30 years, the different special laws would be simplified and even extended, since instead of six, the system of special legal order cases will be changed to three categories of cases, the state of war, the state of emergency and the emergency. But then I think we argued about it, and then both sides could tell us their arguments and their arguments. I just want to say that obviously this debate has been strengthened because it has now appeared, in the midst of the Crown Virus crisis, that there is a need for extraordinary legal order. On the one hand, the exceptional legal order has passed a good test and, on the other hand, the shortcomings or possible irregularities that need to be fulfilled now have emerged. I did not fully understand Mr Luke's thinking that there was little time to prepare, so we will not make the necessary rules until 9-10 months. That might give us even less time to prepare. Well, obviously, I don't think it's necessary to explain in the internal affairs wallet what kind of negotiations there were, because I think the internal affairs wallet is one of the most collaborating wallets, who regularly consults both the representative organisations, the professional organisations and the parliamentary parties. I have had the opportunity to take part in this on several occasions, so I think that the negotiations have also taken place, and, as you have indicated, there is still time, for example, until detailed regulations are drawn up with government regulations. I think that, as we have explained in the basic law amendment why these three special laws are important, we can only support the detailed rules related to this, so the KDNP fraction will also support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-95	Thank you very much. In this case, I will not be long, because it is indeed a matter of the fact that, in this law, the government is essentially implementing rules that result partly from the amendment of the Fundamental Law and partly from the related amendments to the law. The problem is that neither the amendment of the Fundamental Law nor the subsequent legislative amendments were themselves professionally matured, developed, there was no clear professional agreement on the adoption of these, and this bill follows, and it fits into the same line. I believe that there is, in fact, agreement among the sides of the House that clarification is needed in the case of rules on special legal order. I consider this to be a bit of a confession from the point of view that, while the government here confidently referred to the fact that it has always functioned and functioned within the framework of legality in the various regulations relating to the different special jurisdictions, in their common name, in the delegation law and subsequent regulation governance, this intention of clarification has also shown that this regulation is indeed inaccurate. I have to add, it's not the present government, if you can say that, it's a mistake or a problem, it's the rules of the old constitution. But when these were created at the time of the change of regime and later amended, it would obviously also have been necessary for the House to learn from the experience. Therefore, in itself, the need to clarify the rules on this specific legal order, whether in the field of law enforcement or in the field of disaster control or in the field of defence, would have been necessary. At the same time, I am obliged to say that, on the one hand, these rules are not sufficiently thought-out today, they are undeveloped, they are full of terminology problems, and the same terminology errors are being passed through the detailed rules, as well as further regulations. On the other hand, all these regulations are not a solution to what has happened to these organisations in general over the last few years, whether we are thinking of law enforcement or what kind of salaries there are in the police or law enforcement agencies today, if we think about how the police career today is unpredictable, how police officers otherwise not contracted for border protection are led. Before there is a dispute, there is no problem with border protection, there is a problem that, by the way, if the government, in agreement with us, sees this as a serious and permanent task, why it does not develop an appropriate organisational solution within the police department and why police officers are being transferred from one county to another today, often with a short period of preparation and often under inappropriate conditions. So it doesn't solve the problems of border protection, it doesn't solve the shortage of numbers in the police department, it doesn't solve the very serious problems of disaster management, it doesn't solve the problems of integration of the failed disaster response fire brigade, it doesn't solve the problems of taking his name from the fire department, it has taken away his own organization, it doesn't solve the problems of putting a large water head on this system with a lot of leaders and generals, while the real enforcement staff at the fire department has to work for bad wages. I suggest you all take a look around the stone mine firehouse once, see what the conditions are there. I know what I've just mentioned is a little off the subject of the bill. [[Károly Kontra: Very.]] I will finish this, I would just like to say that preparing for disasters, preparing for the defence situation will not be resolved by these legislative changes, it will not be solved by terminology tricks, it will not be resolved by legal proceedings. In fact, this requires a significant, substantial restructuring of the police and disaster management organisations and, I hope, a separate fire department, organizational reinforcement and, above all, a reduction in the shortage of personnel, in Hungarian, that there should be more policemen and more firefighters. This is what is needed, and until the government makes progress on this and the Parliament moves forward, otherwise this bill will not substantially improve the situation. Thank you.
u2021-09-21-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The bill before us, translated into Hungarian, is about giving Fidesz the opportunity to maintain a permanent state of emergency. Of course, you have formulated this as the inclusion of the provisions necessary for the operation of the new crisis regulation, called the "coordinated defence activity" and fantasy, into the individual laws. As early as spring, in the debate on the law on the coordination of defence and security activities, we have also explained that this new crisis regulation is unacceptable. Consequently, the bill that has now been put forward to operate it is equally unacceptable. By introducing a harmonised defence activity into law, the government is given the opportunity to introduce a special legal order without the decision and substantive control of the Parliament. What does that mean in practice? In short, you can do anything, even against the laws in force. I'll give you some examples. For example, you may limit the cross-border movement of persons and goods in certain areas of the country. They may limit visits to institutions and events. [[14.00]] Moreover, the legislative list is only exemplary, i.e. the government can take any measure without a parliamentary decision. Compared to this, the current bill adds further legal consequences to the imposition of a coordinated defence activity, as in such a case those who belong to the pre-retirement reserve of law enforcement bodies will be called upon. In normal countries, such measures could only take place in a clearly defined situation. In your proposal, this means a security and security event, but the definition of this law is so common that it can fit almost everything. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Consequently, once again, you are asking for permission to do anything at any time with the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people. And if these measures are introduced, you want to maintain this situation for as long as you want. Although, according to the law, the measures can be implemented for a maximum of three months, their scope may be extended by the Government, if necessary, for a period of three months. Of course, the law contains the usual restrictive formulas for the rule of law, such as the requirement of necessity and proportionality or the prohibition of the limitation of fundamental rights, but they are as if they were not, since the Constitutional Court, which is uploaded by Fidesz, decides on the eligibility of the government's decision. It's quite clear that you want to take advantage of a crisis again. They use it as a club to beat democracy to death, and that's not fantasy, that's what experience shows. They are doing the same with the crisis caused by mass immigration, which has been sustained for six years, which is being extended every six months, and they are doing the same with the emergency that has been sustained since last November. You have changed the electoral law, incorporated the possibility of stealing public funds into the basic law, and scattered thousands of billions of forints for space exploration, stadiums and the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros. And while they maintain a special legal order and rule on the basis of the pandemic, what are they doing? The football-Eb matches were held in front of tens of thousands of audiences, the Eucharistic Congress took place without any substantive protection measures, and the international hunting exhibition can be visited without restrictions. What if it is not irresponsible and illogical absurdity? ! I mean, that's exactly what's gonna blow your cover, that they're lying. You don't need unlimited power because of an emergency, but so that you can really do anything. But this authority is not for the benefit of the people, because in the last few years we have lost 30,000 of our countrymen, twice as many people have died in our country as in neighbouring Austria. For you, the special legal order and a lot of money weren't enough to build a mass testing system. They couldn't arrange for people to check how protected they were after each vaccination. They did not help workers who lost their jobs, and they failed businesses on the edge. But they took care to chase away thousands of doctors and nurses in the middle of the epidemic. You used your entire power to eviscerate opposition authorities, to undermine employers' rights and to put thousands of billions of state money in your buddies' pockets. This warns us that we must not support any bill that reduces parliamentary control and undermines legal guarantees. This is what both the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the law on the coordination of defence and security activities adopted in spring do, and this bill fits into this line. The legal regulation of coordinated defence activities gives you the opportunity to maintain a state of emergency in Hungary at all times. This is all about Fidesz wanting to keep its power, and although the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the related laws will only enter into force in 2023, when you fail, we must even take the most decisive action against the possibility of demise democracy. We believe in the rule of law, the system of division of power and institutional guarantees. Following the elections, in this spirit, we will create a new law on defence activities, on measures that can be applied in the special legal order, and on this basis we will renew the law and defence sector rules. Consequently, we do not support the bill, which has now been tabled on unacceptable grounds. Thank you for listening.
u2021-09-21-98	Thank you very much. Welcome to the pulpit. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you guys if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary Kontra if he'd like to reflect. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Gurmai Zita is leaving the meeting room.]] I am sorry that Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is leaving the Chamber, and I would like to respond to what she has said. But in the meantime, I will start with what Mrs Mónika Bartos said, and thank you very much for the support of the Fidesz Group. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who spoke on behalf of the KDNP Group and noted in his keynote speech that they would support the proposal. On which the opposition congresswoman and gentlemen seem to be mistaken, a general anti-government criticism was formulated here. This law, I would like to say, is intended to ensure consistency with the law on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and on the coordination of defence and security activities, and thus serves the safety of the Hungarian people, I would like to state that, and that is why I ask all the factions to support it. Mr László György Lukács, representing Jobbik, said that they did not support the proposal, but I would also like to tell him that this is the proposal for the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. As regards the comments of Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK [[Gergely Arató takes up his seat as a representative.]] I would like to put one thing to the attention of the honourable Member and thank him very much for listening to me, and that is when he referred to the need to establish organisational measures for border protection. I would like to draw your attention with great respect and determination that the integration of the police and the border guards on the 21st of December 2007, if I remember correctly, or if I am even more precise, entered into force on 1 January 2008, and you were on the government when this measure was taken. I didn't look into it, but I'm guessing you voted in favour of this bill. And in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration, our government has taken the measures to provide protection for the Hungarian people and the Hungarian borders, in particular the southern border, in order to submit the necessary legislative proposals as a result of the illegal migration storm in 2015. I'm only telling you this because the history of this was as I said. As regards the comments of Ms Zita Gurmai, Ms MSZP, she was also concerned with the extension of the crisis caused by mass immigration. I would like to say that today, in response to the comments before the agenda, I have had the opportunity to address this situation. At the time, I told you that in the last few weeks, but in 2021, the number of migrants who wish to enter Hungary illegally tripled, this is close to 76,000 people, and the number of smugglers and the number of people smuggled has tripled. [[14.10]] So the extension of the crisis caused by mass immigration is fully justified by six months, as these measures also serve the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people and the citizens of the European Union. With regard to his criticism of the organisation of the Eucharistic Congress, I received other information or other reactions from either the churches or the international press. My experience was that, and this was also the letter of thanks sent to the Minister of the Interior, that this eucharistic convention had been organized world-class, and that the work of the police and other officials helping to organize was only thanked, and this convention brought Hungary's good news to the world. So I would like to confirm this, and I would also like to thank all those who participated in the assembly and helped to achieve it. Dear Parliament, I trust that the proposal will be supported and accepted by the Parliament, as I would like to stress that this proposal is also for the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary, and I therefore ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws in the context of the status of the nuclear monitoring body will follow until closure. Government referral T/16224. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-09-21-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the civil national government is to ensure that by 2030 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production will be carbon-free by the combined use of renewable energy, primarily from the sun and nuclear energy. The European Commission's scientific service, the Joint Research Centre, has also found that nuclear energy fully meets the EU's strict environmental criteria. It is also a fact that there is no cheap electricity without the use of nuclear power, that there is no sustainable reduction of electricity and that the climate protection objectives cannot be met. One of the most important domestic, EU and international requirements for the safe use of nuclear energy is that the authority responsible for nuclear safety is independent of the interests of producers, owners, service providers and public administrations interested and counter-interested in the use of nuclear energy. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, several provisions of the Nuclear Power Act and the implementing regulations of the Act provide for organisational independence for the Authority. However, the existence of a regulatory authority with greater independence in terms of personal, organisational, economic and regulatory decision-making is much better served to complete the regulatory and supervisory framework for nuclear safety. The purpose of the bill before you is to establish a sufficiently strong but uninfluenced regulatory and regulatory system that meets the requirements of today and the future, over which Parliament will ensure the highest level of control and supervision. Dear Parliament, Due to the maintenance of Hungarian nuclear capacity, the decommissioning of serviced nuclear installations and the further challenges and challenges in the future, and at the request of the European Union, we recommend that the National Assembly change the regulations concerning the National Atomic Energy Office. The bill also establishes, among financial and organisational independence, a level of wage and benefit system for employees of the Hungarian Atomic Energy and Public Works Administration, which is close to the competition sphere. This is in order to ensure the recruitment and retention of qualified and experienced professionals. This is an essential condition for nuclear safety and for the independent supervision of the Paks investment by the authorities of nuclear safety, safeguards and protection, for the conduct of authorisation procedures for the investment, and for the ongoing tasks carried out by the Atomic Energy Agency. The provisions shall also ensure that the Authority has the revenue and appropriate budgetary resources necessary for the performance of its tasks in the future. Dear Parliament, The bill before you sets out the legal provisions for the National Atomic Energy Office as an independent regulatory body. In this context, the amendment of the nuclear law includes provisions ensuring the independence of the authority's management. By adopting the proposal, the National Atomic Energy Office provides Parliament with the highest level of supervision, as the Office becomes a central budgetary body whose budget constitutes an independent title within the budget chapter of the Parliament. In the area of institutional independence, the draft shall lay down rules on conflicts of interest, the requirements for the appointment of the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson, the arrangements for termination of the mandate, and the duties and responsibilities of the Chairperson. I would also like to point out that, according to the bill, the President must report to Parliament on the official activity of the previous year by 31 May of each year. The head of the independent regulatory body has the power to establish a regulation in accordance with the Fundamental Law, and the bill defines in which exclusive regulatory area the President of the Authority issues a regulation. Dear Parliament, The draft guarantees that the National Atomic Energy Office is subject only to the legislation in the performance of its tasks, cannot be ordered in its function, it shall perform its tasks separately from other bodies, without any influence. In the context of independence, I would like to refer to the findings of the report examined by the European Council of Energy Regulators. The Council assessed the conditions for the functioning of the European energy regulatory authorities in a summary report. It analysed independence from political and industrial actors, adequate human and financial resources, efficiency and autonomy in the performance of basic tasks. The document published at the end of April 2021 highlights that the independence of the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office as an independent regulatory body has been significantly increased by the entry into force of the law on bodies with special status, which confirmed the independence of the Office in resolving the fundamental issues of employment. The bill before you follows the regulatory structure for the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, thus ensuring the independence of the regulatory authority. Furthermore, according to Article 33 of the Euratom Treaty, the proposed amendment was also examined by the European Commission in the context of a preliminary notification procedure and no recommendation was made. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-21-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. Dear Parliament, First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Mónika Bartos, will give her opinion. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! As the Secretary of State said in his expozee, the main purpose of the bill before us is to establish the necessary legislation for the change of status of the National Atomic Energy Office. With regard to the tasks carried out by the National Atomic Energy Office, its tasks have been expanded, as, in addition to the tasks of installation and licensing, it has been increasingly performing construction and radiation safety and radiation protection tasks in the last five years, and these tasks have appeared in large numbers in recent years. [[14.20]] In order to ensure a more effective performance of the work of the National Atomic Energy Office and to increase its independence, the purpose of the bill is to establish a regulation for the Office as an independent regulatory body. According to the bill, the National Atomic Energy Office is subject only to legislation in the performance of its tasks and cannot be ordered in its function, it carries out its tasks separately from other bodies, without any influence. The amendment of the nuclear law creates rules to ensure its management independence for the independence of the National Atomic Energy Office. That, too, was mentioned by the Secretary of State. Following the entry into force of the amendment, the National Assembly will ensure the highest level of supervision over the National Atomic Energy Office. The National Atomic Energy Office becomes a central budgetary body with the status of organ managing the chapter, so the bill ensures that it has the necessary revenue and appropriate budgetary resources to carry out its duties. It is a very important part of the proposal that the bill establishes a salary and other benefit scheme similar to that of the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office for the employees of the Hungarian Atomic Energy Office, thus ensuring that it is operated by a highly qualified, competent professional team. I think that, in the light of what has been said and the details presented by the Secretary of State, this bill can be supported with a good heart. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that yesterday the Hungarian-Brit Friends Group held an online meeting, preparing with great force for the COP21 meeting in Glasgow. One of the main points of yesterday's discussion was the achievement of carbon neutrality, the achievement of climate targets. I think that in Hungary's energy mix we have compiled an energy portfolio that will enable us to achieve these goals by the middle of the century. It is important that a National Atomic Energy Office is in place to achieve the goals, which can be relied upon and calculated for sure, and which can provide its operation independently, free of influence, economically independent and with an appropriate team of professionals. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President, and also for listening to my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-105	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In his introduction, Minister of State said that it is important for Hungary to maintain nuclear capacity in order to meet the climate protection targets and that this is also important for our energy security. I agree with that. At the same time, he also said that the National Atomic Energy Office has already had sufficient autonomy, but now there are significant changes in the legislation of this autonomy. Why this amendment is being made now and to such an extent, I cannot, unfortunately, avoid its political message, namely the fact that, so far, this requirement has been met, which, from the point of view of the European Union, seems to require a stricter, more serious autonomy, why it has not taken place. These regulations have not just been adopted from the EU side. Because you expect that you will not continue to govern in 2022. What is fidesz appearance and what is reality? I'll give you examples like this. You have changed the system when Parliament appointed the Attorney General by a simple majority for five years. We were told to make it independent of how great it would be, to appoint it for nine years and by a two-thirds majority. And the person who was found and appointed for this function is, of course, an ex-fidesz MP, whose loyalty we see. You said it was very important to appoint two-thirds of the members of the Media Council for nine years, because the media is an independent branch of power, so let's give it this important security. And who have they appointed? Five of the Fidesz members you've nominated. Now that one of them has died sadly, there has been a discussion where the opposition has asked to jointly give a name to be one of the five. But no, they rejected it. You need this great security to be your people there. Before the previous agenda, two of us are debating the transformation of higher education. What's this about again? Not for nine years, but for life, they want to cement the curatoriums that will determine higher education in this private foundation system. And what is this all about? The Prime Minister appoints the head of the office for nine years. And it doesn't even happen to say that there should be a parliamentary decision and that would require a two-thirds decision. No! Without a tender, the Prime Minister will appoint the President of this College for nine years. So I'm seeing the same pattern again. The illusion is to give independence, to show that it's not up to the government. It is not up to the government, but, on the basis of the nine-year appointment, when it is not even necessary to apply, by means of a loyal person, Fidesz will continue to manage this office. Therefore, Jobbik cannot support this bill. Thank you.
u2021-09-21-106	Thank you very much. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here.
u2021-09-21-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The content of the bill was also discussed in detail by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Member, Mr Mónika Bartos. However, I would also like to respond to Mr Balczó, because he has this hat, he does not have a cap on. If a regulatory body, an authority, an institution is placed under the government, then the problem is that if it gets out and works under the National Assembly, that's the problem. Once they say there's too much centralization, other times they say there's outsourcing. So no matter what happens, no matter where things move, it's always criticized, but I understand that, because you're the opposition. Only decide if there is centralisation and institutions are placed under the government's control, or if the problem is, if they are removed from government control and entered directly into Parliament, they will become the central budgetary body of the Parliament, which will be created within the budget chapter of the Parliament. I would like to say, Mr President, because at the beginning, I agreed with your statement that it is absolutely necessary to maintain nuclear energy and nuclear capacity levels in order to achieve climate targets, that I ask you to help me with this absolutely scientifically sound and important thesis to convince your fellow Members and allies within your own alliance, because many parties, such as DK or MSZP, which previously supported the use of nuclear energy and Paks II. Its expansion, now suddenly backed out of political interest, is not about the Hungarian green targets, climate targets and not about the energy mix, but they are against the use of nuclear energy solely for political reasons and for political purposes. [[14.30]] Because I know that with you and more politicians from Jobbik, we agree on this matter, and I think it is important that these points of understanding remain and even expand and do not narrow down, just as DK has already backed out, and the MSZP has backed out with its previous position. I think that, as the Secretary of State said, the aim of the change of status here is efficiency, greater room for manoeuvre, and even higher professional work is foreseen by this amendment. I think that if such an important office is given such a status as an independent regulatory body, as a central budgetary body, it is a huge opportunity, but it is also a great responsibility, and this responsibility will weigh on the heads of the office at different levels, as we can expect the highest professional work as a Member of Parliament, because this is a security issue, energy supply issue, nuclear energy is also a national strategic issue. So I will only be able to wish the heads of the office and their staff good work, asking them to take this responsibility and use this opportunity well. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-21-108	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, lead speaker of the MSZP, is next. Here.
u2021-09-21-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! First of all, let us be clear about the fundamental functioning of what kind of institution is now being radicalized by the government! The National Atomic Energy Office itself writes on its website:.... it is responsible for carrying out official tasks related to the use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes only, the safety and radiation protection of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities, as well as containers used for the transport of nuclear and other radioactive materials and their protection. The OAH shall have general authority and control over construction of buildings located in the safety zone of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities. In the case of a new nuclear installation, the OAH shall monitor the entire installation process, from the assessment methodology of the site to the installation and operation. This means that this institution oversees the functioning of Paks I at the same time and Paks II. authorisation and construction processes as well. With the bill we have just discussed, the government has long been indebted to those experts and workers in the energy sector who are responsible for the safe and international operation of domestic nuclear power. After many years, the current bill brings an appreciation and a salary increase to the employees of the National Atomic Energy Office from 1 November. This measure is certainly eligible, as is the fact that the National Atomic Energy Office will be subject to Parliament in the future, i.e. it will be removed from the direct management of the government. However, it is a very controversial part of the amendment that, in the future, instead of the director-general appointed for an indefinite period, the organisation would be chaired by a president with a nine-year mandate which can be extended on one occasion with the same amount of time; moreover, the Prime Minister will decide on the identity and fate of the leader. The appointment of the Director-General will be included in the bill, in Hungarian, if the Parliament adopts the law, then the new President of the Office will be elected by a two-thirds majority for nine years without a tender. The monthly salary of the President appointed by the Prime Minister and his vice-chairmen also shows a very good amount of money. On the basis of the bill, the President's salary is linked to the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, on the basis of which the President's salary is 80% of the salary of the MNB President. Since the current MNB President's monthly salary will be HUF 5 million, so the salary of the President of the Atomic Energy Office will be HUF 4 million, and his alternates will receive 90 percent of his salary, i.e. HUF 3.6 million per month. It is also necessary to note here that the thus appointed President will decide, under his/her untransferable powers, on the principles of salary policy and on his/her out-of-wage benefits of the nuclear power monitoring body. Employees of the National Atomic Energy Office are also included in the national security control. Allow me to briefly recite to you some of the reasons that may have led to the submission of the bill we are discussing here. The Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office resigned at the end of April this year, and this resignation was due to several reasons, but one of them is believed to have been a shortage of professionals at the Office for years, which may have been due to low wages and inadequate appreciation. For years, the government has been idly watching this situation. Meanwhile, the Bureau struggled with a permanent shortage of staff every day. This is also odd, since the National Atomic Energy Agency, for example, is called Paks II. In the process of authorising it, there has been a lot of and a wide range of tasks to be done, and it still has to be done today. The fact that the Office had a permanent shortage of staff and that experienced professionals had gone to the Paks II project, as the salaries there were much higher, made it difficult for the government to deal with its own situation. This situation may have contributed to the fact that the Paks II project is now in a significant slippage compared to the original plans. The decision to reduce the originally planned number of the National Atomic Energy Office by almost a tenth during the 2019 headcount closure was one of the difficult steps of the government. In January this year, the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office, who had resigned, indicated that the Paks II licensing process would have required fifty people, but the income conditions provided by the Office made it very difficult to reach the required number. According to the current bill, the National Atomic Energy Office is placed in the category of bodies with special status. Accordingly, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Hungarian Competition Authority will have the same status, i.e. become an office with the highest level of professional autonomy and independence. Personal, organisational, regulatory and budgetary autonomy is also increasing. These criteria would be fully acceptable in a normal country, but unfortunately, in the case of the current Hungary, we have to accept this government intention in doubt. In an environment where the government fills up all offices and institutions with its own party soldiers, where even the management of universities is entrusted to reliable cadres, it is almost legal that we must accept any organizational transformation with great mistrust the current transformation of the National Atomic Energy Office. The proposed bill raises a number of questions, including why the government wants to change the status of the office and the status of the employees now. But there should also be an answer to why the bill was not surrounded by social consultation and why the Atomic Energy Agency is suddenly being transformed without any explanation. In addition, there are elements of this bill that will make the office spin up permits. Such elements may, for example, cover expenditure related to the performance and operation of its tasks on its own revenue. This type of revenue could include, among other things, the various charges that would amount to a lot of money for the construction of the nuclear power plant, and the new office could also provide a reserve of a quarter of its annual revenues to use it for operation in the following year. Only 30% of the money received from supervisory fees, fines and service charges should be paid by the State. In addition to settling the financial situation of those employed at the National Atomic Energy Office after several years, the adoption of the Act provides an opportunity to replace the President of the Office with a two-thirds parliamentary decision, thereby reducing the leeway of the future new government. This will create another institution where Fidesz wants to keep its say in the country's governance even after it leaves power. This contradicts everything that describes a democratic state. This proposal, therefore, is another attempt by Fidesz to make a major transition. Thank you for listening. [[14.40]]
u2021-09-21-110	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of DK is next. Here.
u2021-09-21-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that I see this bill in the same way as my fellow Member before me, but I would just like to make it even more clear what the point of this proposal is. The case has been preceded by the resignation of the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office at the end of April, who was in the organization for 30 years without any particular history or indication. Unconfirmed news suggests that this resignation may not have been entirely voluntary, and it may have had something to do with the OAH's refusal to bypass the rules to speed up Paks II. authorisation. From this point on, this bill is all about ensuring that Paks II investment is given the green light by the appointment of a reliable party soldier, whether or not the safety conditions are adequate. We know that President Putin summoned the Prime Minister, and he gave him a fatherly reprimand for not making good progress on this project. This measure was taken immediately or shortly thereafter. What proves that fact? Firstly, that in the case of administrative management practices, the new head of the Office does not require any knowledge of nuclear energy. The fact is, in total, it requires that the others have to have three years of nuclear energy practice. This, in Hungarian, means that the Secretary of State or myself could be appointed president of the Atomic Energy Office, and they would not even ask us if we had at least seen Chernobyl, and we know what 3.6 means if someone has obtained administrative practice, then he can go to the head of the Atomic Energy Office. It is quite obvious that this is a personalised legislation. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State who will be the happily appointed one who will be named after the adoption of this law, because I am sure that this is a lex someone, but the question is what is the name of this person. Perhaps it is clear what the goal is then: obviously someone will be appointed, and this particular person, whom we have already mentioned here many times, will guarantee you that on Paks II you will build what the client, the Butcher and the Ripper, and the entire company empire, and what your Russian superiors require you to do. There will be nuclear power or there will be a nuclear power plant, whether it is safe or not, because that is the government's expectation, which is guaranteed now. Of course, there are also eligible, positive elements of the bill. Yes, indeed, the pay of the Atomic Energy Agency has improved, which would have been a long time ago. We've seen it in universities before, but it's true elsewhere that there's always a little honey on the string, a little money from the government, a little better wages, otherwise, just like you did in the career model with educators, as you did in the career model with the cops, and I could go on with the civil service areas, and then you'll forget about them. Instead of operating a stable, normal public service system, where, for example, such an important office would have a clear guaranteed wage increase system, and it would be clear what payments are linked to, instead continue the practice of tailor-made wage creation. It may also be worth mentioning that their main reason now, the Secretary of State said here, is that independence is what must be ensured here. The fact is that in the report on the Nuclear Safety Convention, you wrote every year until last year that the regulation of the Hungarian Atomic Energy Office is not what you are proposing now, but the previous regulation is simply perfect, it guarantees complete independence from a financial and personal point of view. And one day in 2021 they woke up to the fact that, by the way, for decades, I don't even say that it was the current government, because that was always the Hungarian position, we have been saying bad things to the International Atomic Energy Agency for decades, but now we suddenly realize that, yeah, it doesn't have to be regulated that way. I gotta tell you, the horse's foot is hanging out pretty bad. But if you are so concerned about independence and the functioning of independent institutions, you will now refer to European values and European offices, Mr Secretary of State: first, ensure the independence of the judiciary, the independence of public media, the standards of the Union's rule of law, and, if that is the case, then let us sit together, both sides of Parliament, and draw up a proposal which is otherwise not personalised, but, indeed, ensuring the proper independence of the Atomic Energy Office. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2021-09-21-112	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-21-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the supporting contributions from both the pro-government benches and, by the way, from the benches on the left, because if we listened well, we could all hear that even Mr Arató acknowledged that a more independent and autonomous organisation would be created, and Mrs Gurmai said this many times, as Mr Balczó said. I am pleased that, in principle, there is no debate between us in the aim of regulation. We can also rest assured with heart that, in addition to political lozunges, you actually think that this bill is a right direction for regulation, and it is indeed worth supporting this amendment, and, of course, you do not do so because of political reasons, but in fact you think it is right. I am pleased about this, by the way, because it is indeed a matter in which it is important that there is as much consensus as possible. Allow me to draw attention to the fact that the office has already been independent, but we have actually received criticisms of independence, and therefore we have put a regulation before the Parliament, or we have put a regulation before Parliament that further strengthens these independence guarantees. That is what you stressed in the debate. It is also an interesting point that they are fundamentally critical of why they will not be under the government from now on, why they will be under the Parliament. I have to admit, I believe that there have been few opposition politicians in the world that want more powers for the government... [[Gergely Arató: Next year we won't be opposition, that's why we might be!]] Yes, you can, Congressman. Next year, he's gonna be sitting where he's been, if at all. [[Gergely Harvesto: We'll see!]] The fact is, therefore, that there are few opposition politicians who demand more powers for the government and less for Parliament on broad boards and in parliamentary speeches, while, by the way, this bill precisely creates that they will be under the supervision of the Parliament, not under the government, while the government is currently under the authority. Dear Parliament, Allow me to draw your attention to the mistake that the Prime Minister is currently appointing the Head of the Office on the proposal of the Minister for Innovation [[Gergely Harvestó: You can also replace it!]] So there's no change of this type, by the way. On the other hand, Mrs Gurmai had a suggestion that I think is worth responding to. The congresswoman very often has very exciting points, and I am pleased that we can debate one again. The congresswoman said that setting up such an office would reduce the room for manoeuvre of the next government. But, honourable Member, the fact is that the freedom of all governments is reduced by the setting up of such an office, the present one, and the next one, as it is precisely intended to be an independent and autonomous organisation. So the Member has, by the way, taken good advantage of the purpose of the regulation, because we would really like it not to be carried out by an office, which could not even be suspected. [[14.50]] It doesn't do that now, either, under our governance, but it should never happen in the future, so such a regulation will allow for a more stable and secure operation. That's why I don't really understand that argument. It was also a suggestion from a Member, although several Members have brought up the issue of pay, but she has spoken very graphically about this important issue, although I must admit that I did not fully understand that she argues that we should give more wages to the public authorities or that we should give less. It was not entirely clear what she was arguing for, because, on the one hand, she said that the situation in terms of numbers and wages had arisen, and that this was what she had said to the government that we had not paid the employees enough, and then, when it comes to raising wages, the problem was that we were making wage increases. I understand I can't wear a tie of the right color, I'm wearing a hat, I'm not wearing a hat, I can't make a bill that's acceptable to the left, but if I could at least decide which direction to argue in a debate, that would help a lot. I am aware, by the way, that in 2015 we increased the number of the office by an additional 76 people, by an additional 10 people in the same year, plus 40 people in the period of national civilian governance, which is a good indicator of our commitment, and we also gave away the funding resources related to this. But it really is a special area. It is a special area where, in addition, investments in Hungary, but also in many places in Europe are being made where specialists with special knowledge are needed on the market. There is no other option and there is no other solution than that if we want to employ the best, we give competitive wages. To the criticism of the Congresswoman that we do not give such substantial salaries to those in this office, I can say that she is putting nuclear safety at risk with this speech or with this proposal. For if there are inadequate professionals there, it can be detrimental to all of us. So I think that one of the most important elements of the bill is that it allows us to really pay market wages at this office. I would also like to point out in the context of social consultation that we submitted this bill in April or May, so since then it has been available on the Parliament's website and we naturally accept all critical comments. We have also consulted the European Commission, as a preliminary noficitation procedure has been carried out. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have set nine years in the same way as the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and the same rules also apply in wages. Mr Harvesto, although he is no longer here, it is therefore more difficult for him to answer, but perhaps, for the sake of the Parliamentary Protocol, I will say that I was pleased that even the Member acknowledged that the office would be more independent. On personal issues, I think that, on the one hand, as Parliament has not yet adopted the bill, it is far from time to time to talk. Personalised legislation, and that was left-wing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-21-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. After the agenda, MEP Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, applied for a speech with the title "Tourist Development in the Veresegyház." Congressman, we'll wait until... yes, the reason for that is revealed. The thing is, we're back in the House of Commons, in the House of Representatives, and our colleagues have put the microphone together so nicely with the string that it will take time for the representative to unravel this. I said all this to inform the public, so I'll give you the floor and give you the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-21-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the technical problem is now over. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about a very important issue concerning my constituency. This constituency is one of the fastest-growing constituencies of the country: Dunakeszi, Fót, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház is an area that is actually developing the fastest, and this is not or is not just the population, as its population has also increased very much. The population is now well above 120,000 people, but there have also been very serious developments in recent years. This praises the people who live there, the city leadership and the Hungarian government, as these developments are the result of cooperation. In this context, even in the field of education, there has been significant improvements in our constituency. For example, Dunakeszin's new primary school has been established, László Németh Elementary School has been renovated in Göd, extended, and accordingly a new school will be established there, for example a new high school has been established in Veresegyház. The Reformed School is also built or is constantly being built, it is becoming more and more widespread, and we are getting to the end of that construction. There's a building wing ahead of us. For example, the school has been renewed in Csömör, but other educational facilities have also been developed, such as nursery schools, kindergartens have been created and, of course, there have been major changes in other areas, such as health care. To mention the latest development, Dunakeszin may have been renewed, expanded, and there is a great deal of care available there. Of course, this work can never end. One of the most important issues in the field is the question of transport development, as many people who live there go to work in Budapest, and besides doing their work in Budapest, many people bring their children to Budapest, so good transport and good access to the capital are extremely important for them. On the one hand, the development of public transport, since both railway lines 70 and 71 are being developed, and Vác railway lines will take place on different trails. It is a pleasure for us that railway line 71 is also in the process of being designed, as there will also be more and more advanced railways, faster transport, about a quarter of an hour for those who want to enter the capital from Fót or from that area. In addition, it should be mentioned that, in recent times, bunk trains have been running on railway line 70. This means that with much greater capacity, much more people can be comfortable on the railway. All these developments are designed to make it easier for people to reach the capital. But, of course, road development must also be considered, and road development is indeed ongoing. Road 2 has also been developed, now two lanes on the M2. This is a great help to the people in my constituency, but we must not stop this development, we must go further, as car drivers must also be taken care of. Motorists should be seen as partners, many people satisfy their transport possibilities by car, not as enemies. It is not necessary to create plugs for them, it is necessary not to introduce congestion charges, but to help their transport. As a result, the preparation of the route linking the M3 to the M2 has started in the past period, and the planning work has also started. [[15.00]] It is a great pleasure for us, because part of this, the crossing road between 2 and M2, could have already been completed earlier, on the M2 several nodes have been created and are under construction, which helps the people of Dunakes, Gödi and even the people of Fót, because in the event of a new node being established somewhere, the load on the other node will also be reduced. But above all, what is important to us, and this is especially important for people from Veresegyháza, Csomad, Forest Forests and Fót, so that the road connecting M2 with M3as can also be created. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State, who is present in this Chamber, how the development of this path is, if you could give us information about it. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-21-116	Thank you very much. This is a post-scheduled speech, which the government has the right, of course, to reflect on. Secretary Schanda will do that now. Here.
u2021-09-21-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm really trying to react. The government has given priority to the continuous expansion and development of transport networks. Everyone knows that our strategic goal is to connect cities with county rights to the motorway network, to drive motorways and motorways to national borders and to improve access to technological and industrial centres. Our priority is also to ensure that a four-track road section is available from any settlement in the country within 30 minutes, and to build roads to avoid and relieve urban areas in order to improve local quality of life. This is a major task, because during the catastrophic governance of the left, he did not care about the development of the Hungarian road network. With the road developments carried out over the last decade, the total length of the motorway network under 1300 km in 2010 is now close to 1700 km, and with the ongoing and up-to-date additional investments, it will well exceed 2000 km. Under the road programme, we provide a budget of HUF 3600 billion for road transport plans. The larger part of everything, by the way, is purely domestic from budgetary sources. We thank the Hungarian people for their work. The government provides a total of HUF 82 billion for the preparation of new fast-track, main road, municipal bypass, node and bridge development. With the preparations, we lay the foundations for an additional HUF 3000 billion of road development. A total of 1,200 kilometers of new and improved roads, including 560 kilometers of four lanes, can be completed. The planned developments currently allow us all to have a safe, fast and convenient access to parts of the country which are difficult and time-consuming. The availability of areas affected by road development is improving, travel times are decreasing, road transport is improving service standards and road safety is also increasing. With the construction of new construction motorways and bypass roads, transit traffic is less burdensome for municipal roads, facilitating the development of livelier and healthier settlements. By 2025, we will be able to drive and take buses to all county towns and 11 border crossings. By 2025 it will be true for three quarters of the Hungarian settlements and nine out of 10 Hungarians to have a four-track section within 30 minutes. Thanks to the work and effective assistance of Mr Göd, Dunakeszi, Fót and the families and businesses living in the Veresegyház area, a government decision was taken on the financing of a study plan and environmental impact assessment documentation for the implementation of the M3 motorway No 301 and the M2 motorway. Within the framework of the project, two single lanes between the Gödöllő node of the M3 motorway and the M2 motorway between the Dunakeszi-nord nodes are prepared and two lanes of the main road in the distance. In the development of the M3 node, a new phase has already been completed by avoiding your Peanut until road 2101 and the continuation of the road section is also part of the planning task. The new main road also avoids the settlements of Fot, Mogyoród, Sada and Veresegyház on about 18 kilometers of length. As a result of the development, settlements in the region are exempted from transit traffic and the quality of life is improved by reducing urban air and noise pollution and reducing road safety risks. The design contract has been concluded, the acquisition of the environmental permit according to the current timetable.23. Expected in the first quarter. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2021-09-21-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 27 September 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Have a good day, everyone.
