u2021-11-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be assisted by András Aradszki and Gergely Arató. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law amending certain criminal law and related other laws until closure. The government referral is T/17438. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-10-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The T/17438 in front of you. The legislative proposal No.3 seeks to implement all the amendments that strengthen the coherence of the legal system and facilitate the work of the law enforcement authorities, where possible, by processing the experiences and proposals of the past years. More than one third of the bill is the amendment of the three criminal codes, the criminal justice, procedural and enforcement laws. However, linked directly or indirectly to these changes, a number of other criminal law laws and legislation other than criminal law will also be amended. In the following, I aim to briefly present the most important changes of major importance, while in order to get to know the details, I propose to review the duly substantiated justification of the bill. Dear House, The bill seeks to address a number of problems and shortcomings which, by their very nature, can only be addressed through a coherent amendment of laws which are linked to each other. One ectant example of this is the regulatory contradiction identified by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which does not allow the principle of double withdrawal to apply. In order to remove the anomaly, a simultaneous amendment of the Law on Taxation and the Criminal Code is necessary, which requires that the determining bodies in parallel proceedings take account of the same nature of the withdrawal of assets already laid down in the other procedure. Similarly, a number of amendments to the law have been used to address the maladministration which has undermined the principle of ne bis in idem, according to which, at present, only an infringement which has been assessed by a court in the course of an infringement procedure has resulted in a judgment in criminal proceedings, but not an infringement which has been assessed by the on-the-spot fine or by the infringement authority. The amendment of the levy law in 2021 led to changes in the bill which simplify, make coherent, and reduce administrative and financial burdens, on the one hand, the rules on the payment of duties in criminal proceedings. Some institutional changes sometimes lead to problems in practice that require a comprehensive solution to be addressed. This is also the case with regard to the change in the powers of the Alien Police Authority. In fact, the former Criminal Code did not specify a specific length of detention, but later referred it to the jurisdiction of the Alien Police Authority to establish it in a decision. In the meantime, this authority's entitlement has ceased and it is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of establishing the period ex post by a new method, with a new special procedure in criminal proceedings. At the same time, it was necessary to introduce a new judicial procedure for determining the termination of enforceability. In recent years, the government's criminal policy has prioritised the more effective withdrawal of crime's wealth, of crime's wealth. Although this requirement has been properly dealt with in criminal law legislation, difficulties can continue to be identified in a border area of jurisdiction where the interest in the recovery of criminal assets is conflicted with other legitimate interests. Such a conflict, which is currently problematic, is often the case between creditors in liquidation and the financial needs of the State who are victims of the crime. The purpose of the amendment is to establish appropriate consistency in the event of conflicts of interest. This can be ensured if the assets of the company concerned by the criminal measure are not devalued, the exercise of legitimately acquired creditor rights is not impossible, in view of the main needs, the needs listed above do not suffer unnecessary damage and the priorities between the individual needs are consistently laid down in the law. In order to achieve these objectives, the bill allows certain criminal measures affecting liquidation property to be taken to ensure that, if the debtor undertaking is insolvent, judicial winding-up does not take place, liquidation proceedings are not suspended, but that the State's claims for payment of money in criminal proceedings are enforced as a criminal requirement in winding-up proceedings. In winding-up proceedings, the interests of all creditors are also served if the prosecution does not delay the closure of the winding-up proceedings and the debtor's assets do not lose value because of the delay in winding-up. According to the Law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, in liquidation proceedings, the State, on behalf of the State, shall claim and enforce criminal creditors of the tax and customs authorities in cases where the debtor enforces a financial claim imposed on the property of an undertaking in criminal proceedings, arising from the detention, confiscation, fines or criminal charges. It is important to stress that not all criminal claims can be included in the liquidation. This does not include cases of seizure, confiscation in criminal cases, or confiscation, of property that the State's criminal claim is not aimed at securing a sum of money but at the property itself. In the latter cases, property is withdrawn from the debtor in accordance with the rules of criminal proceedings, enforcement and based on them, since in these cases the dispute of a legal nature is not about the enforcement of a claim, the recovery of a sum of money, but about the property of that property. The new nature of the regulation is therefore that property which is closed as cover for criminal claims can be sold in liquidation proceedings under the rules of winding-up proceedings, but the State, on the basis of its criminal creditors' claim, is involved in the purchase price or the assets which have been distributed. The amendment also takes into account the risks of fraudulent claims by certain creditors in winding-up proceedings, thereby reducing the coverage of payments to other bona fide creditors. [[9.10]] It will create a new legal institution to adequately offset such risks. If, in criminal proceedings, a suspected fictitious claim is ordered to be placed under lockdown, no payment shall be made in the winding-up proceedings to that creditor's claim, but the conditional acquisition of the creditor shall be recorded. After that, if, in the criminal proceedings, this creditor's claim is withdrawn by confiscation of assets relating to the creditor, the creditor does not, according to the novuma of the proposal, obtain anything, but the property which falls on it is not acquired by the State, but by the debtor's entity. As a result, it can be prevented that the fictitious creditor obtains his claim, and instead the real creditors, including the State, can acquire the property in question with their own claim. The amendment of the law also amends the criminal law provisions in order to ensure consistency with the rules of the bankruptcy law. The most important part of this is that the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the Criminal Liability of the Legal Person is complemented by the requirements of the lock-down decision, which makes it clear in which cases the property concerned may be included in the liquidation. Another important provision is that the closure of criminal proceedings does not cease during winding-up proceedings, only the subject matter changes, first the creditor's claim replaces the original object and later the assets distributed in liquidation. All this will be done without a separate decision. Finally, the operational nature of the new system made it necessary to amend the tax enforcement law in order to ensure that the duties of the State tax and customs authorities implementing most of the criminal assets are clearly defined in this regard. The bill, along with all of this, begins to rethink the asset settlement process by amending Act V of 2006 on Company Publicity, Court Procedures and Settlement. Property arrangements shall be made if the property belonging to the company that has been deleted from the register is recovered. It is a legal basis that the purpose of the asset settlement procedure is not to find the rightful owner of the property recovered, but to satisfy creditors from the purchase price received from the sale. At the same time, this ground must be changed if the property is claimed and the property is sued for the establishment of ownership. In this case, in the future, the settlement procedure should be suspended until the trial is completed. The asset settlement procedure also lays down special rules in the event that the property is owned by a company that was subsequently cancelled in winding-up proceedings. In this case, the settlement of assets should act as a follow-up procedure for winding up proceedings and the order of satisfaction based on the classification of creditors should prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, The reform of the Code of Penalty is primarily based on the experience and suggestions of law enforcement. The case law has led to differences in interpretation of what should be done if part-actions in the natural or legal unit continue during criminal proceedings, but there is no possibility of continuing to supplement the subject-matter of the proceedings and the case-file. The legislation in force may also constitute an obstacle to a new procedure being carried out by the authorities in view of the fact that a new act has been committed. And if the new act can no longer be included in the previous procedure, not only the State's criminal needs, but also the interests of the victims may be significantly impaired. In order to resolve this, the bill ensures that, beyond a certain point in the criminal proceedings, it is no longer within the scope of the unit of crime in the event of another part of the criminal proceedings being committed. The expulsion penalty is effective and enforcement is considered to be initiated if the sentenced person leaves the territory of Hungary. On the other hand, it's the Btk. At present, it provides that expulsion begins with a rise in the legal force of the decisive decision. In order to ensure proper consistency, the bill will be carried out by the Btk. the need to amend it accordingly. With regard to criminal activity in the criminal organisation, in order to ensure a clear mediation of the legislator's intention, the bill makes it clear that if criminal material legislation does not allow unlimited relief in the event of criminal activity, there is no possibility of unlimited relief in the criminal organisation of a more serious social crime than in the criminal association. The reasons behind the amendment of criminal law legislation are increasingly linked to compliance with international law. The signing and ratification by our country of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crime made it necessary to revise the Criminal Code and the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and to adapt it to the requirements set out in the Convention, which is also met by the bill. Dear House, It also represents a greater volume of amendments to the law on criminal proceedings within the bill. In this context, for example, the issue of the legal impact on the part-action assessed abroad will be resolved with a view to ensuring that the Hungarian criminal demand is not lost solely on the grounds that a part-action within the criminal unit has been assessed abroad. The bill also allows for short-term innovations in criminal proceedings in the framework of the Digital Prosperity Programme by opening the way for widespread electronic channels that are not included in electronic communications, such as e-mail, and by ensuring the expansion of the telecommunications presence with appropriate guarantees. As of 1 January 2021, the Criminal Procedure Act established institutional cooperation between the judiciary and child protection in the course of proceedings, following the Barnahus method in Iceland. In addition to the Barnahus method, the regulation allows for the use of other professionally sound methods to promote the protection and welfare of children. In order to address the theoretical and practical issues raised in the context of the new regulation, there is ongoing professional consultation between the relevant law enforcement bodies and child protection professionals, so that the special procedures for protecting and protecting children can work in practice. The bill clarifies the rules on criminal proceedings in the light of professional feedback. It's 10/2021. Ab decided that the absence of the upper limit of arrest in the case of criminal offences which could be punishable by life imprisonment was a fundamental violation of the law. In order to remedy the problem, the bill also sets the upper limit for arrest in relation to these acts, i.e. five years and, in some cases, six years, depending on their weight, typically their complicated judgement. Based on the experience gained from the practice, the bill aims to ensure that a partial right can be established even if an appeal has been filed against the provisions on so-called classic ancillary issues or the time limit for appeal has not yet been reached. In its decision, the Constitutional Court examined the scope of the review in the event of a relative procedural infringement. The bill re-regulates the issue in line with the panel's findings and also provides an opportunity to override so-called relative procedural violations. [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, By breaking into our country, the Crown Virus has had to respond to a number of situations that have not been experienced before. Although the emergency situation caused by the virus has made the introduction of certain emergency solutions inevitable, experience has shown that some innovations, special provisions, may exist after the end of the special legal order period, even after the return of everyday operation, and therefore the bill will also amend the Code of Penalty in this way. In this way, the bill also aims to allow the application of certain rules relating to the simplified delivery of the file and to the resolution of the presence by means of a telecommunications device by the participant in the proceedings in the criminal enforcement case. Similarly, the emergency has shown that in the case of prisoners and other prisoners of title, the provision of presence by means of a telecommunications device is a well-functioning solution, and it therefore seems appropriate to define this form as a general rule in prison judicial proceedings. To facilitate successful adaptation to detention conditions, two new specialised departments will be set up in prison institutions. For the first time in prison, the division of the so-called first-time offenders is intended to minimise prison harm and facilitate reintegration into society as effectively as possible. With regard to such prisoners, a much greater emphasis should be placed on the quality of contacts, and its frequency should be increased in order to maintain, strengthen social relations and thus succeed in resocialisation. Inmates aged 60 and over may be placed in the elderly's section. In their view, special treatment is justified, on the one hand, by reducing the risks inherently associated with their low status within the prison hierarchy. In addition, cognitive skills and health conditions, the deterioration of social relationships and the decline of active lifestyles are common in this age group. This justifies a greater emphasis on maintaining good health and mental status in this prison population, as well as on contacts during detention. The main reason behind the amendment of the Law on Criminal Records is the extension of the European Criminal Records Information System, and in short the ECRIS. ECRIS allows the exchange of information from Member States' criminal records between the competent authorities of the Member States, but the system has not previously ensured the rapid and effective conduct of requests for third-country nationals. This has been changed by the two new EU acts adopted in 2019, which allow extended ECRIS to meet requests for third-country nationals. The bill intends to amend the domestic legislation on the criminal record system accordingly. The amendment to the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters is due on the one hand to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, according to which, on the basis of the third country's request for extradition, temporary detention may take place only if it does not infringe the principle of ne bis in idem. On the other hand, the amendment of the law was also required by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to be considered as a third country as from 1 January 2021 and thus the clarification of the extradition rules became unavoidable. Failure to fully transpose the Council Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States has led to infringement proceedings against our country. In doing so, Hungary will meet the requirements set against Hungary by amending the law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. In addition, the amendment will address some regulatory shortcomings identified by practical experience in relation to the transfer of the implementation of criminal costs, the receipt and transfer of compensation for the victim and the public, as well as parallel European arrest warrants. Finally, some amendments to certain non-criminal laws are also being made, partly on the basis of professional feedback, with a view to transferring criminal changes in recent years. Among these, I would like to highlight the law on taxation. The amendment establishes the conditions for the correct legal status of the payment to the separate account managed by the NAV if the financial disadvantage caused by the perpetrator of the budget fraud is reimbursed. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be said in most of the legislative proposals of similar scope and complexity, it is also true that the proposal before you has gained this form after a serious conciliation process, through active dialogue with the participants in the co-organs and the application of the law. As a preparatory member of the bill, the Ministry of Justice paid particular attention to the inclusion of proposals and views from law enforcement, expert bodies and professional representative bodies in the final text of the standard. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/17438. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-2	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-10-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The rather extensive package of proposals before us seeks to amend a number of laws on criminal matters and includes other amendments to these laws. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is timely for several reasons, both because of the creation of more coherent substantive legislation, the promotion of more modern criminal proceedings and the fulfilment of EU and international obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of criminal substantive legislation requires coherence. The Btk. In the event of the execution of the criminal association referred to in paragraph 1, the possibility of unlimited relief is excluded from more than one facts, but, in the absence of explicit legal provisions, unlimited relief may be granted in the event of an offence being committed in a criminal organisation. The criminal organisation is the most serious legalized form of organized crime, so it is important that, if criminal material legislation does not allow unlimited relief in the event of a crime in the criminal association, there should be no possibility of unlimited relief in the event of a more serious social crime than in the criminal association. Dear House, At present, the Constitutional Court does not appear in the facts of the rebellion, thereby participating in a mass riot whose direct purpose is to obstruct or force the Constitutional Court to exercise its constitutional powers as a criminal offence against the State. On the basis of the Constitutional Court's signal, the proposal provides for the possibility of sanctioning such acts as a riot. The bill would make amendments in order to settle the financial interests of criminal proceedings and liquidation and to renew the structure of property, which is intended to ensure that, in the event of criminal measures affecting winding-up property, if the debtor undertaking is insolvent, judicial winding-up is initiated and that winding-up proceedings are not suspended, but that the State's claims for payment of money in criminal proceedings are enforced as a criminal need in winding-up proceedings. The regulation will thus serve the interests of the general creditors, since the prosecution does not delay the closure of the winding-up proceedings, nor does the debtor's assets lose its value as a result of the delay in winding-up, nor does the winding-up proceedings extend due to criminal proceedings and therefore do not result in unnecessary costs linked to the management and maintenance of the debtor's assets. From 1 January 2021, the first short story of criminal proceedings established institutional cooperation between the judiciary and child protection in the course of proceedings. The proposal clarifies these provisions by amending the provisions relating to the use of telecommunications equipment, the recording and the cooperation of the consultant in order to ensure that the integration of methods into criminal proceedings can be carried out smoothly. It is an indication that the proposal opens the way for widespread electronic channels, such as e-mail, which are not included in electronic communications, and allows for the expansion of telecommunications presence in addition to appropriate guarantees. [[9.30]] These provisions are aimed at modernising criminal proceedings, since we must admit that there is plenty to be done in this constantly changing area. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already said, the proposal before us also requires compliance with EU and international obligations. Among other things, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage are necessary to comply with the provisions of the Convention in the context of the draft law on the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage. modification of certain facts, namely the destruction of monuments or protected cultural objects, theft, destruction, embezzlement and illegal acquisition. The proposal would also amend the law on the organisation and administration of courts, in the light of the Venice Commission's findings on the legal unit procedure. The proposal integrates the legal unit procedure into the legal unit complaint procedure and introduces the necessary amendments from the organisation of the courts to the relevant provisions of the Administration Act. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, the bill before the House contains other technical and legal amendments and ensures compliance with the constitutional and judicial decisions and the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Since this comprehensive amendment aims to make our legal system more coherent, to incorporate practical experience and to eliminate the various anomalies, the Fidesz Group will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-4	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-11-10-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a law that contains and changes a number of laws. We often criticize that there is no connection between what the Ministry is presenting to us, and obviously we do not like those salad laws. Obviously, when we listened to the Minister for Justice in the Justice Committee the other day, he said that he was trying to come here with proposals for a wallet where there is a close link between these laws. This is, for the most part, a proposal which does not contain completely conflicting amendments and is not in any way linked to each other, but is indeed linked to this. It is also very important to point out that the most important thing in creating new legislation is what the general justification here also refers to is that they are trying to synthesize an appropriate proposal from the experience of life, from the enforcement of existing laws, from the problems that arise there, from the proposals drawn up by the implementing bodies that improve the laws in question. The general explanatory statement states that this is what this is all about, on the one hand. On the other hand, the satisfaction of EU and international obligations and compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the recommendations of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and, as I said, the feedback of the law enforcement bodies and enforcement bodies required this bill, which contains a number of legislative amendments and relates to criminal law, criminal proceedings and related international treaties. If we turn to these, we can see that it amends several pieces of legislation one by one, and contains recommendations from the Commissioner for Constitutional Court and Fundamental Rights, such as the consistency of the rules on confiscation of property, taking account of parallel proceedings, so that the other procedure also takes account of the deprivation of property. This includes, among other things, the question of the principle of ne bis in idem, which appears in this proposal several times. This is a directive of Roman law, originally based on the principle of Nemo debet bis vexari pro una et eadem causa, that no one has to suffer twice for the same act. So it's Roman. It is a legal institution of legal origin, as it so often rests on the basis of a legal order established for thousands of years, in the Hungarian and European legal order. Obviously, the new Fundamental Law already contains the wording of this principle. Of course, this is not an innovation in Hungarian law, as it was also included in the Hungarian legal order, but it was not previously published at the statutory or constitutional level. Now they are trying to find consistency in this, too, with regard to infringement procedures, to include the fact that someone is not being prosecuted, but, let's say, a fine on the ground. The legislation also amends the obligation to pay a levy. Here the aim of clarifying, simplifying, resolving contradictions, reducing administrative burdens and, in some cases, removing the obligation to pay taxes is the aim of the legislative amendment proposal. Then he also deals with expulsion. We, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, agreed with many things about expulsion or migration, what has happened in the past, but not completely everything, because Jobbik consistently expressed zero tolerance in relation to migration. In this regard, we did not agree with the government's view that we would allow the migrants with money into the country until we allowed the non-money people, so we are consistently in favour of the zero solution, and we have stressed this already. In any case, which means further tightening up, Jobbik usually votes in favour, including those related to this, including restrictions on expulsion. Then an important problem is the settlement of the financial interests of prosecution and liquidation. The explanatory memorandum to the draft legislation states that the government's criminal policy is also an important priority for the more effective withdrawal of criminal assets and for law enforcement. Obviously, there have been legislation in this direction over the past period. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has consistently been pro-police since it was in Parliament, and Jobbik's criminal policy is characterised by this pro-police, proper strict application, speed and consistency. In this regard, the government is obviously expressing its own position, but it must also be taken into account that there are real results in the area of criminal law, and in some cases the number of cases has actually decreased for certain crimes, but it must also be included here in the pan of the balance sheet that there is a serious deterioration, as Hungary has been in the world ranking for corruption in the last 11 years and is in a rather, significant disadvantage or background. Or, if you look at where you stand first, you are at the very top of the European Union, because you are now at the forefront of this with Bulgaria. So the most corrupt country compared to the fact that, when the Orbán government came to power 11 and a half years ago, Hungary was on this ranking in the middle of the European Union, and now it is in the worst place, so there are areas that I would clearly suggest to the government that this could be changed and that we could move forward in this area. Of course, if there is no government will to eradicate corruption in this regard, then it is obviously quite difficult from the opposition, but obviously it can and must be changed by going to government. The next issue is the Convention on Cultural Heritage Crimes. The reason I find this strange is because we have just adopted the legislation on this issue, and it is apparent that the explanatory memorandum also states that the agreement is ratified by a well-pointed law on the Hungarian part, so it is quite interesting that we amend what we have just adopted and it has not yet entered into force. Then an important issue is the encounter between criminal proceedings and winding-up proceedings. It is a practical experience that, unfortunately, these two areas meet quite often, since very often a winding-up procedure is also due to the possibility of criminal offences being committed. Obviously, we are talking primarily about property crimes. [[9.40]] Here, the purpose of the legislative amendment is to ensure that if there is a conflict in criminal proceedings and in winding-up proceedings, there is a need to act properly and consistently between legitimate creditors' claims and criminal property claims. In particular, it is the confiscation of property and the execution of fines that are essential, the involvement of criminal property needs in liquidation, which has already been done, but the acquisition of state property cannot be done to the detriment of other good- faith persons. It is therefore to be welcomed from this point of view if an appropriate classification will be made during the winding-up proceedings and the State will not benefit in this respect if a third party in good faith is involved in the winding-up proceedings from the creditor side. Perhaps this will make the system itself fairer. Of course, it is an exception if confiscation concerns a particular property which was the object or instrument of the crime, such as, where appropriate, the object or instrument. In this case, criminal law will apply to the subject of confiscation, which will continue to be governed by the old rules. The abolition of the compulsory suspension of winding-up proceedings is also an important step, which had to be taken by the court earlier and therefore suspended the winding-up proceedings in the event of criminal proceedings. This obligation will be lifted in this case by the entry into force of this bill. Obviously, the judge here will consider the fact that he really needed this, but he will not be obliged to terminate it. In the same area, there is the elimination of over-insurance that hinders the sale of assets. It is clear that the sale must take place here at fair economic value. Preventing fraudulent cover-ups is a next step, and you will only obtain a lock-in property on the thing that is secured under the lock. This will continue until the procedure itself has been completed and, therefore, the appropriate safeguards will be provided for the removal of the property secured under the lock. In the case of a criminal alliance, there will be a slight modification. Here, the intention of the legislator is not to allow for unlimited relief in the event of a criminal organisation, a more serious social crime than a criminal alliance. With this, as I said earlier, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary as a pro-police party agrees that in some cases the law should strike with the proper rigour, so if there is indeed a way to commit crimes in a criminal organisation, then there should not be this possibility of unlimited mitigation. Protecting children in criminal proceedings is an important step. It is clear here that even if the victim is a child, but if not a child, it is also very important to protect the victim, guarantee personal rights, and ensure the psychological integrity and psychological integrity of the child. Obviously, when a child is interrogated more often in criminal proceedings, it often bears the child every time he is heard. So there's an effort here to keep their hearing as low as possible. This is also an important legislative intention, and I think it must be supported. The upper limit of arrest is a next point in criminal offences that can be punishable by life imprisonment. Once again, the practice has shown that the maximum limit of four years in the case of pre-trial detention was not always feasible, although we think it would be important for law enforcement bodies to be able to reach a judgment in four years. Unfortunately, experience shows that this is not always possible, and it is clear that if, after four years, the defendant is released from prison for a serious, very serious, life-threatening crime, he is the defendant, then he should not be released after four years in advance, but should be extended for up to five years, even six years. So this is also something that can be supported and supported. Changing Member States' criminal record systems is also an important step. Here, the European Criminal Records Information System (ECRIS) would be extended by two new acts, namely the exchange of information on third-country nationals and the establishment of a centralised system for the identification of Member States with information on judgments against third-country States and stateless persons, the ECRIS-TCN. This is a centralised system of personal data at EU level to enable the central authorities of the Member States to find out which other Member States have criminal record information for a third-country national. Obviously, this is once again a system that will help law enforcement and is obviously aimed at enhancing and enabling interoperability between information systems within the EU. The last thing I'd like to say is to solve the problems associated with a separate criminal account. The Secretary of State has also indicated that in some cases budget fraud can be alleviated indefinitely if the financial disadvantage caused is reimbursed before the indictment. This was entered into an account at the NAV with which they can't do anything right now, obviously the fate of this 13 billion HUF deposit needs to be clarified. So this is also to be supported. We see that this bill is basically in the same direction and can even be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-10-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/17438 on the amendment of certain laws relating to criminal matters and related thereto. A total of 37 legislative proposals contain amendments, primarily with a view to being more coherent in order to address substantive legislation and the financial interests of criminal proceedings and winding-up proceedings, to make expulsion penalties more effective, to implement modern criminal proceedings, and to comply with the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the Constitutional Court and in judicial decisions. I would like to highlight two of these objectives: on the one hand, to make the return penalty more effective and, on the other hand, to comply with constitutional, judicial decisions and reports of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, The expulsion from the Btk. In accordance with its provisions in force, the decisive decision begins with an increase in legal force, but the penalty may actually take effect if the sentenced person leaves the territory of Hungary. In view of this, the Government is proposing that the duration of expulsion should start with the day on which the sentenced Hungary and the European Union leave the territory of Hungary, as defined in the order implementing the expulsion under foreign law. In the case of reintegration detention, the sentenced person will be punished in a designated apartment. While monitoring implementation, the movement is monitored by an electronic remote monitoring tool, there is still a risk that the sentenced person involved in alien expulsion will withdraw from enforcement and that there is no legal basis for non-execution in the country. It is therefore appropriate to exclude the possibility of reintegration detention in those judgments. [[9.50]] IV of 1978 on the Criminal Code From the entry into force of law 28 February 1999, the expulsion did not provide for an additional penalty to be imposed by the Btk. specific content, which was subsequently established by a decision of the Alien Police Authority in its own proceedings. In the meantime, this right of the Alien Police Authority was terminated, and therefore longer term imprisonment, as well as Btk. In practice, the new Btk is still in practice, taking into account its temporal scope. on the basis of and in the present case, where the duration of expulsion has not been established in the decisive decision, but when the expulsion is carried out, it cannot be established by the foreign police authority. In order to address the problem, the bill introduces a new special procedural order, whereby the court first acting in a particular case can determine the duration of the expulsion on the basis of the physical weight of the act committed and the penalty imposed. In addition, the bill lays down a transitional rule for determining the duration of expulsion and settles the situation of prisoners against whom an indefinite expulsion has been carried out or has not been implemented because the rules on immigration no longer allow it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights 1084-2020. In its report No 1 on the application of the ban on double withdrawal, it identified regulatory problems when the tax authority's decision to establish a tax deficit becomes final after the confiscation order for fiscal fraud has been issued. In this connection, it is necessary to ensure Art. And the Btk. the consistency of its rules on confiscation of property, and therefore the bill provides a normative basis for taking account of the same kind of confiscation already laid down in the other procedure in parallel proceedings. Central District Court of Buda C-131/21. In response to KI's request for a preliminary ruling, Be. 4. As a result of the review of the legislation in Article 5 to ensure the application of the principles of non bis in idem in respect of infringements and criminal proceedings, it is necessary to provide for Annex II of the year 2021 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the registration system for infringements. Act and CLXIII of 2011 on the Prosecutor's Office amendment of the law. The bill provides the opportunity, following the motion, not only to result in an infringement which has been assessed by a judicial decision in the course of an infringement procedure, but also in an offence which has been dealt with by an on-the-spot fine or an infringement authority. It's 10/2021. Ab decided that the absence of the upper limit of arrest in the case of criminal offences which could be punishable by life imprisonment was a fundamental violation of the law. There is a legitimate social need that, in line with the material weight of the act, typically its complex judgement, the law should ensure the current maximum ceiling for arrest, the possibility of an emergency measure lasting more than four years. Accordingly, in the case of these offences, the bill raises the upper limit of the coercive measure to 5 years or, in specific cases, to 6 years. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-8	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, Member, lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-10-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said before, we are talking about the amendment of 37 laws to this salad law, and obviously we have said a lot of times that this method, the salad law as such, sometimes makes it very difficult for opposition representatives to judge the fate of such amendments in a final vote with a single push of a button. Now it is not certain that this is the strongest argument in this situation, because this package contains most of the amendments that justify this kind of negotiation. So there are times when it really regulates, or plans to modify, interrelated life situations, relationships, and situations, when it really helps to discuss this at the same time, so let's say this. Of course, there are some elements that are not fully understood why they are in the package, but they may be fewer by number, and there are also proposals for amendments that can be criticised in this package. Obviously, I will try to limit myself to this in my speech, by the fact that many people have already said that they have highlighted the forwarding elements, and I will obviously try not to repeat them. So, as has been said, the proposal deals mainly with a number of detailed questions relating to criminal proceedings and with the material needs of them. In this context, it changes or proposes to change existing legislation with regard to reports by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in several places. The direction of this is basically double. On the one hand, the proposal ensures that the same fact is not assessed and sanctioned in two different procedures. This may have occurred on the basis of the justification of the proposal when the same case was also dealt with in criminal proceedings and infringement proceedings by an infringement authority. While the former has an effect, the latter has no effect, so the same case can be evaluated twice. The principle of ne bis in idem is being transposed by the proposal in several other places, partly with regard to provisions arising from international legal obligations. On the other hand, the aim of the proposal is to ensure that criminal proceedings do not hinder the execution of winding-up and similar proceedings, and that these latter proceedings are not unduly delayed until the criminal proceedings are completed. Therefore, the proposal amends the rules of these procedures in such a way that they can be completed before the completion of criminal proceedings, while ensuring that the material needs in criminal proceedings are met. In addition to two or two main directions, there are other elements in the package of proposals, such as criminal proceedings and related proceedings, including provisions on criminal proceedings and criminal justice. These are, in line with previous details, mainly professional proposals based on practical experience. In this context, the proposal includes amendments such as the exact date of departure, for example, or which precludes unlimited relief for criminal offences committed in a criminal organisation, should it otherwise have been excluded in the case of a criminal association. Such a provision is also that, in the case of certain criminal offences punishable by life imprisonment, the maximum length of arrest may be more than 4 years, up to 5 or 6 years. In this context, it is also mentioned that the obligation to pay a levy in criminal proceedings should be abolished. Obviously, such issues are absolutely eligible in the proposal. Once again, these are, first of all, technically justified proposals, but there may also be some elements in this proposal that tell us of government shortcomings or motivation beyond policy. This is immediately the case with regard to previous shortcomings, in fact one of the main elements, the ban on double evaluation. [[10.00]] The 30-year practice of the Constitutional Court in this round is based on the principle that a ban on double assessment and now a provision of fundamental rights against the abusive exercise of the State criminal power would be cited from an Ab decision and, on the other hand, a rule in order to ensure legal certainty, as it guarantees the definitive nature of substantive judicial decisions. The proposal also shows that there is a situation in Hungary where a person can be sanctioned in several cases because of the same facts, which is problematic in itself, but the fact that these circumstances exist in relation to nine-year legislation is, in my most problematic view. Although the situation is outrageous in that sense, it is understandable. Understandable, because Minister of State Balázs Orbán also noted at a conference that the Orbán government does not pay such attention to the carrying out of impact assessments, but prefers to try out their ideas in practice. This also works in practice, not only in principle. From public interest data requests from the Ministry of Justice, we can see that the Ministry of Justice does not even register that it has made any proposals for impact assessment, but we can also see similar data from the Ministry of Interior. For example, in 2016-17 only one ex-post impact assessment was carried out, and in only one case it was considered important to examine the impact of the legislation created. In fact, what we see is that the aforementioned experimentation would be essential to at least examine in hindsight the impact of a piece of legislation. Obviously, in such a situation, it is understandable that there are provisions in the legal system that include provisions that are massive and systemic, which violate the fundamental rights of people, but, if that is the case, it is, of course, appropriate that the government corrects them or at least proposes to correct them at times. On the other hand, with regard to technically strange provisions, it must also be pointed out that there is an amendment to the facts of the rebellion in this proposal, which many have already said to me. Here, the Constitutional Court would be supplemented by the last Btk. since its entry into force, the facts of the rebellion which has remained unchanged since its entry into force. By doing so, the Constitutional Court considers it to be a threat to a body that can be committed in violation of the crime of rebellion. Moreover, the proposal recognises that this amendment will be made after the explicit request of the Constitutional Court. It is almost incomprehensible why this amendment is necessary now, or if it was an actual legislative intention to protect the Constitutional Court, why it is only now. They created Btk. nine years ago, and I'm only putting this on the table so that it could have been seen in that case. But in recent times, for example, some members of the Constitutional Court can still be regarded as having a political taste in their statements, perhaps it is understandable why they are now on the table. Thirdly, I would like to highlight from a professional point of view the provisions relating to the criminal proceedings of minors. The proposal argues as such, and I quote: "The Be." One of its main objectives was to establish a system of procedural rules to prevent secondary victimisation of child victims in criminal proceedings. The proposal later highlights the procedural difficulties associated with children who have become victims of sexual exploitation, but the Hungarian State is unfortunately not performing very well in relation to the criminal law of children. In 2020, 19, 2019, 30, in 2018, 54 children were convicted for being victims of sexual crimes, and I'm obviously quoting this. Every pedigree child was a girl. Although the amendment to condemn children because of their involvement as victims in sexual crimes entered into force in 2020, the system must continue to be subject to extremely serious changes and reviews. It is therefore to be welcomed that the present proposal is trying to improve the practice of children's criminal law, but perhaps even more is needed at a later stage, or even now, during the negotiation of this proposal, in the House. Finally, it should be mentioned that new posts with additional fees will be established at the High Prosecutor's Office by establishing the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General. The appointment of these leaders is for the appointment of the Attorney General, which in the case of the inseparable or almost inseparable Péter Polt seems to be a very secure position. Not to mention the addictive situation that this creates for those who do the job. What is most interesting about the story, however, is that neither the general nor the detailed justification gives any reason why the creation of these posts was necessary, or the only reason the proposal mentions, is because there is also a "Curia." However, this is neither a valid reason nor a meaningful goal, so it would really be justified for the legislator to answer why exactly Péter Polt needs a secretary-general and a deputy secretary-general. It is difficult to view this provision differently than a reward that can be awarded to the prosecutors who are loyal to Peter Polt. In the last part of my speech, I made critical comments, but as I began, this package contains 37 laws, and I see the character of the salad law as much more justified than ever. Most of the proposal contains a technical, important and forward-looking change, but I could not go without comment on the proposal. I call on the Secretary of State and the honourable members of the Government to take these proposals into account and to adapt the final text of the legislation accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-10	Thank you very much, Mr László Varga, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Bősz Anett, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-11-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have a large and wide-ranging proposal for an amendment involving a number of legislation. A total of 37 pieces of legislation are concerned, but coherently and coherently the objective of a consistent review of the legislators in this proposal can be achieved. As the previous speaker mentioned, so the salad law is much more justified than previously in the amendment proposal before us. I'd just like to focus on a few suggestions that I would have been critical or supportive of. The first is that the proposal amends Btk. 396. Paragraph 8 of Article 8 and the association of crimes also include reference to a criminal organisation, thus excluding the possibility of unlimited relief. At the same time, the current amendment does not affect and continues to leave in this highly controversial provision of the legislator for the crime of fiscal fraud, so that the penalty for those who have caused a financial disadvantage caused by specific budgetary fraud can be alleviated without limitation before the indictment. As I have already said, this is a much controversial issue, it would be good to have a more detailed debate in the Parliamentary commission, and here in plenary, and to consider whether it is the Secretary of State or the pro-government majority to amend the second point I have mentioned. Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Rules of Procedure 7. In the second instance, according to Paragraph 2 (2) of Article 2 of the Act, the Curia judges. This text has now been modified by the second degree judgment of the Curia. The amendment was only that they practically changed the order of words, which did not change the meaning, and this paragraph became unHungarian. I would recommend using the old sentence for consideration, or, if I might look at Mr Secretary of State, the exchange of the order of words does mean some kind of meaning content, then I would ask you with respect to report on this in your reply. The fact that the 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and the infringement procedure. Law has been amended in this package of laws, creating two new divisions for prisoners with special treatment needs. [[10.10]] One is the section of those sentenced to prison for the first time and the other is the department of the elderly. I would like to mention here the positive that I think should be supported, and Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé: it is welcome that the prisoners wish to do something about their mental and physical health. Believe me, when we had big debates here in front of the National Assembly about the damages lawsuits you called prison business, we talked about this, that the quality of life of the inmates is not at all the same in terms of how they will be able to adapt to our society after the punishment has been carried out. I would also like to draw attention here to the principle, with all due respect, that is to be borne in mind, namely that prison execution is not a form of retaliation, but rather a means of reintegration into society and of becoming a criminal once again a law-abiding citizen. I would like to mention a point concerning the tax rules that are also discussed in the proposal. It may be considered that the proposal confers an advantage on the insolvency administrators and creditors, which could be an opportunity for abuse. In subsequent case-law, it may be found that certain companies or persons may receive an undue advantage in the course of liquidation, say, in such a way that a given entrepreneur is subject to proceedings for tax debt and fiscal fraud, and a creditor to whom the entrepreneur owes a significant amount is present; an existing example is that when a certain entrepreneur who has had a tax debt and has been prosecuted against him, he has applied for fairness. In general, applications will be evaluated in two days, depending on the administrator's discretion, this period has been extended to 30 days until they can assess this request, and during that time the property may otherwise be recovered. I am now referring to a practice, Mr Secretary of State, which we are assuming for the time being, but on the basis of the unanimous opinion of the lawyers working with the Democratic Coalition, this current amendment will give us the opportunity to do so in practice. With regard to victim protection, I would like to mention what, I believe, has been mentioned without exception, my fellow Members, to support the reduction in the number of child interviews, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the quality of interrogations is also very important. When a child, whether a witness or sufferer of domestic violence, is often experienced, and in consultation with many experts, I can say that it is not yet a child-friendly interrogation room, if a bear is painted, say, on the wall of the interrogation room, or if there are toys on the table where this child is sitting. It is very important to use the vocabulary; it is important that the child involved in the interview is not intimidated by further expressions. Obviously, recalling memories is also an extremely difficult and burdensome process for a child. I think we need to focus on mental health here, too. Here, I would also like to devote the last thought of my speech to the fact that experts dealing with domestic violence and interrogated children often mention that police training, which was terminated a few years ago, significantly affects the recognition of domestic violence, even in the case of arriving police officers and during subsequent interrogation proceedings, make it very difficult to uncover reality. In this sense, I would therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State to try to respond to this, whether he is here in the oral language, and I would very much like it to include in the proposal before us an amendment which assumes on the part of the government an effort to reconstruct not only the paragraphs protecting children in this way, but also the mechanisms in which professionals help not only victim protection, but also the children who are forced to do so during the hearing of witnesses and the hearing of victims. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-11-10-12	Thank you, Congresswoman Anett. I now give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-10-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I was thinking how strange it must feel for you, Mr Secretary of State, to receive so much positive feedback from opposition speakers on such an extremely long 162-page salad law. I think that this has never been the case in this parliamentary term, but this is a feedback for us too. It was worth mentioning the many, many hard criticisms of such salad laws, it seems that the Ministry of Justice has pulled itself together a little, and we have now managed to present a really coherent and logical bill, so we can really forgive this type of salad law, so let's consider this a common result. The legislative quality of the Ministry of Justice has improved a bit, and this is a positive feedback for us too. My fellow Member, Mr László Varga, pointed out that this salad law, in particular, makes the work of opposition representatives difficult, we can say that such a foundation is indeed the work of opposition representatives who read and appreciate these legislative proposals. There is no problem with the pro-government representatives, because the voting sheet has it, of course it has to be supported, but it should normally also make it difficult for a pro-government representative to do so. Obviously, we have not seen an example of them complaining that a law is too long or too wide-ranging, obviously no criticisms have emerged from that direction. I thank my fellow opposition Members very much for the long, long, detailed and otherwise very well-founded and good quality speeches and criticisms. There is no way I would like to repeat what has been said, or Mr Secretary of State has presented himself in very detailed detail, so I try not to rely on repetitions. Although, in such a truly wide-ranging bill, the Secretary of State has practically selected some parts, which he has been able to describe in more detail, but such an extremely long bill cannot be presented orally here. I would like to point out a few things, however. We can say that if we should highlight two amendments that are the most elusive, let us say, in the present political situation, so just six months before a parliamentary election, then one of them is what my colleague Anett Bősz referred to, here is the possibility of mitigating the penalty in the event of a criminal offence in connection with the compensation for the damage caused and the amendments to the confiscation of property. Both, let's just say it's juicy in the event that, before the elections, one of the most important promises of the opposition is accountability. So, let's say, at least, this should move some people's fantasies, along with the fact that, in some cases, it may not be certain that they should be criticised on a professional basis, but these are certainly interesting. I think it is very important, this has been mentioned by many of my fellow Members, and I would like to point out briefly that the amendments on child protection and victim protection are positive. We have always put our emphasis on this, and we have obviously tried to make our own proposals on this. I would also like to confirm here, despite the fact that propaganda generally conceals this, but the opposition always supports such measures, even when they often came wrapped up in salad laws that we could not support overall. But these are important directions, so I wanted to make a point. The creation of new positions in the case of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, my fellow Member László Varga referred to this negative, but he talked about this in detail. In terms of cultural heritage protection, I share Csaba Gyüre's incomprehensiveness or partial incomprehension. As regards the recently adopted bill, we already have new proposals and amendments. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a lot of work to be done here, which, I think, now falls on a new government: unfortunately, we are seeing an amazing devastation, if not in the area of cultural heritage conservation, but in the area of historic protection. Thus, the destruction of Hungarian monuments is shocking, and legal protection and government work are unfounded and incomplete in this connection. But obviously, I would just like to mention this at the level of mention, and it will be the task of a next government to really create a legal environment that can represent a positive shift in cultural heritage protection and historic protection compared to the current, otherwise extremely worrying situation. And I would like to refer to one more thing, and it may taste a little political, which is deliberate. Here, in connection with the act of nullity, the justification for the amendments made to the laws concerning convictions which violate the law during the communist dictatorship, if we look at it, is very strongly stressed here in the detailed justification of the existence of social needs that there is indeed a social need that these procedures can be conducted even if the person concerned is already deceased. [[10.20]] I believe that the same social need arises and is present with regard to the publicity of communist agents, and here, in the justification of such a bill, the government recognises the social need, and in the other case, when LMP's proposal was rejected for the twenty-fourth time not long ago from the publicity of the agent files, then they are trying to steer it in the direction of what we want here after three decades. I think that this is entirely justified that in this law there is talk of social need, it is used in justification, and these amendments are indeed justified, and we also support them. But I think that at least in this case you should consider that it is really necessary to deal with this huge failure three decades after the change of regime. What I can tell you is that the new government will finally ensure a great three decades after the change of regime, the publicity and, in this way, the opposition to the crimes of the Communist dictatorship. Overall, I can say that the bill is fundamentally positive, coherent, logical, and thus makes the LMP fraction subject to serious consideration to its adoption. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade. Dear Parliament, I do not see a candidate for a two-minute speech or a further speech by his representatives. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary [[Dr. Pál Völner is rising to speak.]] who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-11-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I thank you for the supporting elements that accompanied the bill. There have been some issues which I hope I can answer, but obviously we can address during the detailed debate; and if there has been such a proposal for amendments, because Members and factions also have the right to present them, so they will obviously be considered in the committees. It has been said from two places in the Convention on Cultural Goods that this would be an amendment. No, we've ratified that, so that's okay. We are talking here about amendments to harmonise the legislation relating to the Convention itself, which can be found in other legislation, so I hope that this kind of content will then become acceptable. About the children's interrogation room and stuff. Indeed, this category is now a special treatment for people with disabilities and other disabilities who also need it, so a wider circle, but we can provide the same separate treatment or treatment in these cases. In the context of budgetary fraud, it has been said about unlimited mitigation: precisely now, the current amendment contains a tightening up because it cannot be alleviated in the case of a criminal organisation. By the way, it's an earlier regulation. Obviously, budgetary interests and other aspects have also shaped the way in which this regulation has been developed in the past. Regarding the secretary and deputy of the Attorney General's Office: it always appears as a consistent need for judicial and public prosecutor's organisations to have similar regulations and even pay. There were times when that meant tensions. So this will also be a kind of regulation for settlement between organisations. With the ban on double evaluation, there were criticisms. I would like to stress, however, that these are marginal cases and have been discussed in detail and that they prefer to promote the application of the law, so obviously there have been law enforcement bodies who have been able to jump on this issue, but we will now clearly regulate these areas, on the basis of their comments. So thank you very much for your comments and for your support for this proposal. In the committees, we look forward to the amendments if they can be adapted to the structure of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws on criminal matters necessary for the protection of animals will follow up until closure. Presentation submitted by representatives of Máté Kocsis, Péter Ovádi, Zsolt Nyitrai, György Balla, Alpár Gyopáros, László Böröcz, István Tiba and Fideszes László Vigh. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-11-10-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I believe that one of the most important legislative packages for animal protection has now been presented to the Parliament. When the Minister appointed me as Commissioner for Animal Protection on 1 October last year, it was his task to assess the programmes that we need to implement in order to know animal protection in the forefront of Europe within five years. I started work right away. I always believe in teamwork, which is why I've been trying to get the opinion of people who have been in animal protection for a very long time and do it every day. That is why I have turned to civil society organisations, and that is why I am pleased that the Association of Animal Protection Interests and Professionals has tried to support me in everything, and they have provided me with the proposals that we can now see in the legislative package. But like I said, we have a lot of work in animal welfare that we need to answer properly. That is why we launched together with the Animal Protection Centre and thank Szilvia Vetter for his work on this site, because with the gazdijogsi.hu internet interface we created the online interface where anyone who wants to be a responsible farmer in Hungary today can learn the knowledge that is absolutely necessary here. We can see from the way the website is visited, we can see how much such a development is needed. But if you look at it, when I talked to the civilians, we've always come to the point of what to do: neuterization program, neuterization program, neuterization program. That's what they told me. This is why we have launched the program of neutering the program through our call for responsible animal support within the framework of the Hungarian village. I am very pleased that we have been able to successfully evaluate the tender of 479 winning municipalities. There, too, we have put emphasis on cooperation, as the municipality must cooperate with civil animal protection, cooperate with the veterinarian or official veterinarians. We also wanted to draw attention to the fact that only teamwork can achieve results in animal protection. Then, when we talk about responsible livestock farming, we also have to consider that we now have to show our children in a kindergarten and school environment what is responsible for keeping animals. I think we've been able to take a lot of steps together in a year. What I always say, but it is also true that civil society organisations are the main backbone of animal protection, and, of course, we must support them with all our might. I am pleased that we have already been able to support 67 organisations. Of course, this is only the first step, and we would like to create forms of support where these civil society organisations can receive targeted support. And if we look at what is the result of this joint work, we can also see that the profession, the civil society organisation and the government can work together. That is why I am pleased that the National Veterinary Council has been established, where civilians are included. It is the Association Manager of the Ant Community who gives us professional advice in the National Animal Protection Council. We thank Krista for that. I think that cooperation over a year has really put animal protection on a new footing in Hungary, and we would like to continue to work on this basis. [[10.30]] The result of this joint work, I think, is a milestone in animal protection, as shown by our bill package. I took a look at your press conference, so I'd like to give you a detailed explanation, because I can see that some of you have failed to read this, so I'd rather tell you before we get into the debate. I would like to say that there are civil society organisations here that are trying to promote animal protection every day, so that you will try to represent your position in this professional way. Our proposal to amend certain criminal law laws necessary for the protection of animals aims to strengthen the legal environment related to animal protection and to ensure responsible animal farming, in the light of the outcome of the animal protection consultation. To this end, the proposal creates the possibility of more stringent criminal law and rules on handling the animal situation in criminal proceedings by creating new classified cases in the case of animal cruelty. There is no fundamental legal barrier for the animal protection authority to act on a particular case after the final end of the criminal case. According to the proposal, if the court in criminal proceedings informs the animal protection authority that the organisation of animal cruelty or illicit animal fighting for a criminal offence has convicted the keeper of the animal, the animal protection authority shall carry out official controls in accordance with the rules governing it. The proposal is the Btk. As compared to its current legislation, it also extends the classified cases of damage to nature, animal cruelty and the organisation of illicit animal fighting, given the phenomena which have become increasingly common in recent years and which, in addition to the material suffering caused to animals, cause widespread scandal in the members of society and which, therefore, need to be punished more severely. In this context, the proposal intends to take a more stringent approach, inter alia, to cases of poisoning, to particular relapses, to breeding establishments operated for profit purposes and to those who have previously been banned from activities related to the keeping of animals. In order to protect confiscated animals, the proposal makes it clear that in implementing the specific rules applicable to animals, the general steps taken to implement confiscation do not require particularly destruction. The proposal also raises the rules on the welfare of vertebrate animals which are subject to compulsory measures in criminal proceedings by seizure to a legal level. The purpose of the amendment is to keep seized animals under adverse housing conditions for as long as necessary in criminal proceedings. These have been signalled to us by civil society organisations, and I think it is very important, by the way, that they have also been able to be included in our proposal. In our proposal, as I said, damage to nature appears, another classified case is defined. In recent months, it can be said that poisoning cases are still causing serious environmental damage both at home and abroad; in more and more cases, there is a need for official action when hundreds of protected species, such as brown meadows, brown kites and several protected species of animals, such as dogs, cats, foxes, are being poisoned and killed. Mass poisoning is most often done with a nerve-killing poison that, apart from the animal organism, is often considered lethal to the human body. The placement and use of a poison that harms nature and endangers the life of animals often causes serious damage to the territory of national parks, private areas and enclosed rooms of a magnitude of millions. In view of the increased number of cases associated with the placement of toxic or life-threatening baits, and thus with a view to curbing and preventing acts of harm to nature, it has become necessary to criminally sanction an animal's life-threatening act in this way. I would now like to answer one of these questions: you are already ordering the preparation of classified cases of damage to nature to be punished. In view of the increasing number of crimes today, which pose a threat to or even involve the destruction of protected species, it is also appropriate to advance criminal protection in cases of damage to nature and thus to criminalise the actions of preparation. The placement of poisons or baits that cause the death of a predefined number of animals could in itself constitute a threat. If we look at a new batch of what else we have brought in, then one of the most important things is that we have brought it in if someone is torturing animals in public. New opportunities for technical development have also provided the opportunity for animal torturers to commit animal cruelty in public as an online audience. In view of the increasing number of live broadcasts, such as the use of Facebook Lives to torture animals, it is ultimately justified to regulate animal cruelty as a classified case. In addition to the basic case of animal cruelty, the protection of animals and nature requires the legislator to define animal torture as a condition for qualifying for live mediation for stumbling and entertainment. In addition, the negative impact on healthy development of children, the promotion of animal cruelty, motivation for an increase in ratings to carry out such an act should be assessed as a disadvantage and action should be taken by all means. We have recently introduced that, if this happens, within two years of the organisation of a prohibited animal fighting or animal torture, the proposal defines as a new classified case the further animal torture committed in two years following the conviction for animal torture or for the organisation of a prohibited animal fight. This practical consideration was justified in order to give more serious punishment to a person who committed a similar crime within a short period of time, even if he was not considered to be a particular repulsive because he was sentenced to imprisonment for his previous crimes. And what I have said is very important that, from now on, not only the organizers of animal fighting, but those involved in the animal fighting can also be punished, because there have been cases of the police, civil society organisations and everyone trying to eliminate such an animal fight, and it was very difficult at the demonstration stage to say who did organize this animal fight. That is why I am pleased that civil society organisations have signalled to us that participants should be given prison sentences. I think this will greatly reduce the number of animal fights. As I said, we have brought in a lot of additional classified cases in the amendment of the penal code, and I would not like to highlight them all, but perhaps, most importantly, by using poison or by planting baits to kill life, we are committing more animals by destroying them. In accordance with the relevant provisions of damage to nature, the proposal seeks to sanction as a qualified case of animal cruelty the destruction of animals caused by the unsub by the placement of poison or baits suitable for killing the animal. In view of the increased threat to society, it is appropriate to regulate this case as a classified case, since, in addition to the basic case of animal cruelty, it would cause more animals to suffer as a result of the massive destruction of animals after the long torture caused by the poison or bait. [[10.40]] As I have already said about participation in animal fights and the examination of classified cases, we can see here that we have been able to bring in a lot of new measures, with which we may be taking one of the strongest animal protection measures in Europe. I wanted to mention it last, but perhaps one of our most important proposals is to take action against illegal breeding. I mean, let's just remember the Karcag case, where the police were able to seize more than a hundred dogs with the effective cooperation of the NGOs present here. There were unrequited conditions there, Karcagon, even the vocal cords of adult dogs were cut so that the neighbors couldn't hear these dogs. In Europe, we create a unique structure in which we can hold illegal propagating material accountable, and they can be sentenced to one to five years in prison. The coronal virus epidemic has also brought with it not only a pandemic of health, but an increased demand for co-animals, and illegal propagating people have also been actively involved in meeting these demands. We often say it, but it is true that we do it for animal protection even if we adopt a companion animal and even if it is taken from a breeder. It is illegal breeders who are engaged in activities that not only exhaust the concept of animal cruelty for us, but all the unprofessional things they do, which are very harmful to animal protection. That is why I am pleased that if you voted in favour of this amending proposal, we will be able to say for the first time in Europe who is the illegal propagating material. I think this is the biggest step we can take in animal protection. I mean, we're gonna tell you how big the stray population is, tell you how to set up a spaying program. We were right there in Tiszabő, where we can really track the serious problem of the stray population in some parts of the country, and how the Maltese Charity Service can fight with the Ministry of the Interior. I also thank the veterinarians for their attitude, as civil society organisations have long asked us to put a mobile neuteral bus in service, but for this, as I said, veterinarians and civil society organisations also need to cooperate. I really can't tell you enough how much we owe this time of year to work together. That is why I am pleased that the head of the Animal Protection Centre is here, and there are civil society organisations that are constantly supporting their work. I hope you can see how much government is committed to animal protection. It may give you a reason to smile, to try to work with the civilians... [[Turning to Gergely Kálló:]] You will be able to say, Mr President, what problems have been identified and what measures have been taken to respond to them in Dunaújváros. However, I would ask you not to discuss these achievements of the government, and let us try to really cooperate on this. I mean, I always say that we have a thing for animal welfare, and the only way we can do that together is if you support this program. In their live broadcast, I did not see that I wanted to support it so much, but rather that I saw them expressing the criticisms that they might hear somewhere. But I suggest you go to the CSOs, I suggest you go out in the field, go to animal shelters, and then you see a realistic picture, go out to the pedestals. [[To Anita Kőrösi in the direction of Potocsány:]] The congresswoman will tell you when you have the floor. Go to places where they actually do animal protection and they want to do it. So thank you very much, and I hope you will support our legislative amendment package. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I ask that on behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-11-10-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-20	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-10-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Animalists, As the lead speaker of the Fidesz parliamentary group, I welcome you with respect. This is the same proposal as the Btk. It is about tightening up, but let me first talk to this House about the history of how we have come to this point. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary bases its public work on dialogue, so we always ask people's opinions and take them into account before making important decisions. So far, we have consulted 14 times on 14 topics, and Hungarian citizens have been able to express their views 14 times between two elections. The purpose of these consultations and requests for opinions has always been and always has been to find points of agreement for the Hungarian society, which the government can then integrate into its decisions. We were looking for and found points of agreement on animal protection and responsible livestock farming, which the Government of Hungary is using to make decisions. The animal protection survey represents a new direction in the field of animal protection in Hungary. The formulation of these issues has been preceded by several consultations with professionals, animal welfare NGOs, the leaders of the organisations, volunteers, activists, various government actors, veterinarians, and we have consulted citizens in preliminary research. It is common understanding that the 13 issues in the survey are those to which we need to find answers as soon as possible. During a month of filling, nearly 263 thousand people expressed their views. The consultations conducted by the Government of Hungary are never without consequences, followed by some government or parliamentary decision and new regulation. In Hungary nearly two million dogs and slightly more than two and a half million cats are kept. Animal protection may never have received more attention than it is now, the 21st century. 21st century, including the assets. They have to be centuries old. The outstanding number of fills shows the weight of social cooperation, and there is an extraordinary opportunity for this area, this issue. Government measures for the development of animal protection are closely linked to a series of decisions to support the competitiveness of the sector. The answers to the questions clearly identified the need to support animal shelters and civil society organisations in the field of animal protection. As a unanimous opinion, Hungarian citizens said that responsible animal rearing should start as early as a child, that Hungarians expect more stringent action from the authorities, that they think that it could be a solution if we were to punish even those who repeatedly commit animal cruelty or engage in illegal animal fighting more severely, as is the case with criminal law known as three strikes. It is also considered that a national neutering programme is needed and that the reception of stray dogs should be reformed. It is important to settle the fate of the abused animals as soon as possible in the proceedings for acts of harm to animals. [[10.50]] The respondents also considered it important that a shelter for farmed animals should be established, that it was a good idea, and that the socialization of the operation of the National Animal Protection and Welfare Council was also considered appropriate and recommended to the decision-makers. The reform of the authorisation of pyrotechnic articles and the ban on the inclusion of circus wild animals appeared as a conflicting point in this consultation. These were therefore the most important issues of the consultation, and Hungarian citizens were able to express their views here. What is always important is what follows the consultation, and as I have just mentioned to you in Hungary, no consultation has been without consequences, without answers. I am very pleased that the Hungarian government has responsible owners of the territory, such as István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, and such Minister Péter Ovádi, who are in constant contact and dialogue with civil society organisations and interest representatives for animal protection. Dear Parliament, The most tangible means of living together between humans and animals should be taken into account in the development of the legislative framework. Just think of the introduction of mandatory tweezers or the granting of hundreds of millions of forints for spaying programs, all of which promote responsible animal farming and try to reduce the number of strays. It is important to work together with civil society organisations for animal protection. I especially welcome those animal defenders who are here today in the box in the Hungarian Parliament; thank you for your signals so far, and we will certainly expect this in the future. The Government of Hungary is constantly seeking to introduce measures for the protection of animals and to expand the support of civil society organisations. Following the evaluation of the survey referred to above, a number of successful responses have already been received until now, let me tell you the most important of these things here. The Government of Hungary provides financial support for the work of nearly a hundred animal protection NGOs. The government's online dialogue and assessment of animal protection launched at the beginning of the year resulted in this decision, as there was a very serious demand for this. The National Veterinary Council has been established, with the clear aim of this Council to discuss the most important issues and points on the various issues and to review the legislation on the subject and even propose a new regulation. Within the framework of the Hungarian village, a spaying program was launched. The Code of Animal Protection, the birth and development of which is also extremely important and significant, was established because, for the first time in the history of domestic animal protection, representatives of public authorities, professional organisations, civil society organisations, representatives of science and government accepted a joint declaration, and this happened on World Animal Day. This is an ethical declaration of intent, which aims to ensure that the points in it are respected by each participating organisation in its own territory during everyday life. Online training was launched, which was also discussed by the Minister, and the negotiations on the development of the national animal protection programme are ongoing, and we have come together here today in the Hungarian Parliament on the amendment of the legislation and the tightening up of the legislation in relation to the establishment of the national animal protection programme. The current amendment calls for stricter action to be taken against illegal propagating material, animal torturers and focuses on the case of relapsers. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary not only talks about animal protection and responsible livestock farming, but also does for it. From the measures and the responses to the results of the survey, we can see that the Government of Hungary does have an important opinion, listens to them, and takes the proposals into account in its work and decisions. The proposal before us is supported by the Fidesz parliamentary group, and we encourage the other parliamentary groups to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Nitrai. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Kálló, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-11-10-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, let us state that Jobbik and the entire opposition, as we predicted, are in favour of the bill. I am very sorry that Mr Ovadi managed to slap such a personal opening, despite the fact that the subject of the previous press conference you mentioned was not about reviling and personalizing, but we expressed our improved intentions and presented our suggestions without personalisation. We'd better get this straight from the beginning. Yeah, yeah, after 30 years of yelling flaws, let's be a little bit critical. And I'm not putting this on the Fidesz account, I'm putting it on the 30-year account. The Hungarian animal protection has not been dealt with in 30 years, no one has. Let's be a little critical, shall we? ! Thank you for letting us. And on behalf of the Dunaújváros animalists and the dog police, I challenge what you have said, and on behalf of the municipality. We have identified shortcomings, shortcomings that I believe are justified after a national consultation, after several months of preparatory work. I think, after a job like this we should have thanked you for not only tightening up the Btk. in the area of animal protection, but a much broader bill could have been passed. We think so. What do we suggest, or what does my party family suggest about concrete restrictions? As the Member said, yes, it is time for Hungary to become familiar with the concept of reproductive material, and even internationally, this is a good example, which must be supported in any way. It should also be supported that we are finally punishing propagating material, because I believe that the greatest attack on animals and not only animals, but also their owners is the concept of breeding and the practice of breeding. Because not only do we create genetically damaged animals, but the farmer, after he buys these animals, is also exposed to a long suffering by treating such a suffering animal financially and the rest, and so on, it must be eliminated. We've had the opportunity to speak in person twice, perhaps I've mentioned to you twice that I think one of the most effective solutions, apart from punishment and high punishment, is to eliminate their commercial surfaces. If you look at where these animals are best sold, you can see that on Hungarian Internet retail sites. There is a good example, there is a commercial page that deletes it with fire and iron and does not allow these ads. I think that would be a very effective thing, because you can't sell guns in places like this, you can't sell drugs, you can't sell breed dogs! If we reduce supply, demand may also decrease. There is a huge demand for animal protection police in Hungarian society. An online petition was also launched, signed by tens of thousands; this shows that there is a demand for such an organization in Hungarian society. At the same time, our limits must be taken into account. There is a huge shortage of police personnel, too, so we need to think about how we can set up such an animal protection agency. Our proposal in this regard is, in our view, a rather effective proposal, because we would give the dogs authority over a certain number of people. When civilians save an animal, they always look at a lengthy procedure, a lengthy procedure, licenses, and so on and so forth. If I told you, we'd give authority over a certain number of souls to a dog police officer, who, let's say, could immediately go to the crime scene, who could immediately confiscate a dog on the spot, and where to give it, would be an effective solution as a first step. That could be further developed, we think there's a fantasy in that. The promotion of adoption would also have been a good idea to put on the table with such a proposal. We also have proposals here, and the opposition would also be conducting a very strong and very active campaign both in schools and in families and in the public media to promote adoption. [[11.00]] But speaking of Dunaújváros, how does this work in Dunaújváros? When the new government got up, one of the first things we did was sit down with animal welfare agencies and the dog marshals. The way it works in Dunaújváros is that both on the side of the municipality and in the newspaper, adoptable animals of the dogry industry appear regularly, and we regularly promote that they would rather adopt us than buy. This is how it works, among other things, in Dunaújváros, if you have already asked the Member. We're also happy about the neutering program. But we don't think that what's happened so far is enough. This really needs to be nationalized. And not only do you have to go to villages, but you also have to go to larger settlements. That's a suggestion. We also consider this to be a shortcoming and we would assign money to it. I haven't been a Member of Parliament that long ago when the entire animal protection proposal came to Parliament through the use of pyrotechnic articles. That day, this proposal was taken off, and it was said that there would be a wider proposal later. At the same time, we really cannot pass the use of pyrotechnic articles without saying a word. I am of the opinion that there is no room for pyrotechnic articles in the gardens, in the streets, among the panel apartments on New Year's Eve. I wouldn't do that. If after New Year's Eve those who read animal pages, animal search pages, they see the numbers grow radically. Why are we letting this go? So I'm going to make the pyrotechnic articles, and we're going to make a suggestion about it, and I'm going to ban it from the streets. However, let me point out that the original proposal was to let you into the stadiums. This is part of animal protection, and I would like the use of pyrotechnic articles to be dealt with in the Animal Protection Bill. My fellow Member mentioned that they were tightening up and talking about prison years. We'd go a little further than that. We recommend 3-5 years instead of 1-5 years for the organizers of animal fighting, and we recommend them for a penalty of 5-8 years. The subject of toxic baits was mentioned by the Member, where the proposal mentions the death of several animals. [[Péter Ovádi: This has already been amended.]] If this has been amended, I am pleased about this. I didn't even assume that this came in on purpose. At the same time, if we are talking about such a proposal, we would definitely include permanent physical damage or death traps in the proposal. In addition to today's technical achievements, Hungary should not have a place in Hungary. Let's ban the use of these. I think there are ways to catch an animal without getting hurt. Finally, I consulted the dogmen of Dunaújváros, Attila Létai. Here is a number that my fellow Members have said: they supported 67 animal protection organisations with HUF 141 million. That's commendable in any way. That's the only thing we're gonna do. This is HUF 2 million per animal welfare organization. Now that Attila Létai and I made a kennel suitable for the reception of two larger dogs, it was only the fence of 200,000 forints. The doghouse, resistant to temperature fluctuations and chewing dogs, costs 60,000 forints. We also found out how to pay for this in the winter for ten of them. So I've already spent 800,000 forints, and I haven't fed the dogs yet. That's 2 million forints for an animal protection organization. Your devotion is commendable, but it's not enough. I'll keep going. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-10-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Kálló. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-10-25	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/17434 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws necessary for the protection of animals. Bill No.1, as you have heard, would punish animals more severely, would act more strictly against propagating animals, and would also consider participation in animal fights a criminal offence. In view of the outcome of the animal protection consultation, the aim of the bill is to strengthen the legislative environment related to animal protection and to ensure responsible animal farming. I also thank my colleague Péter Ovádi and civil society organisations for the creation of gazdi jogsi.hu, because it is very helpful not only for young people but also for older owners. Compared to the current legislation of the Criminal Code, the bill would extend the classified cases of damage to nature, animal cruelty and the organisation of illicit animal fighting. The bill would be more stringent on, among other things, poisoning cases, particular relapses, reproductive sites operated for profit purposes and those who have previously been banned from activities related to the keeping of animals. On the basis of criminal liability, the placing of poison or baits in a way that endangers the life of animals would also be the subject of the offence. This means that the bill would also punish the placement of poison, meaning that the preparation act itself would be a crime. I consider this extremely important. The scope of classified cases of animal cruelty is substantially increased by major public acts of animal cruelty during the prohibition of keeping animals. It is important, from a preventive point of view, as a retaliatory point of view, that a higher sentence could be imposed by the use of the poison or by placing baits suitable for the killing of life, causing more animals to die, or by committing them as a strange repulsion. The bill also provides for criminal law on reproductive activities. At present, propagating material is being punished for animal cruelty in view of the poor conditions of animals, but it is necessary to regulate it as a qualified case to prevent the expansion and growth of breeding sites, and this is being complied with by the bill. Furthermore, according to the bill, those who are merely engaged in animal fighting in the future are also guilty of a misdemeanor and would be punished for two years of imprisonment due to a misdemeanor. In order to protect confiscated animals, it is also important to have a legislative provision that makes it clear that the general steps of the execution of confiscation, in particular destruction, do not need to be taken in the case of the animal. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-10-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Dear civilians, who are here with us in this House right now! And everyone, civil society organisations and professionals in this area, animal-loving and animal-protecting people, who are now following this mediation in quite a large number, I welcome it. [[11.10]] The first word is to thank you, Mr Ovadi, because I have seen close-up government within a governing party, indeed, we need people who are running this case, who think it is important, they are putting together, they are getting their own government representatives and, where appropriate, the members of the government to deal with this matter, and they are lobbying at all in the government to make it work. We are faced with a package of laws and proposals that have been asked for for a long time by animal-loving people, animal defenders and civil society organisations for a very long time, but obviously this is just a sub-area. Unfortunately, a week does not go by in Hungary when we do not see a case that rightly offends the vast majority of Hungarian society. Without the need for completeness: in recent weeks or days, we have read of cases where he appeared even in the People's Land, or at least I have read that a dog was hanged alive and beaten with an axe until he breathed his soul. But it's been a very famous case in recent years, when a woman made a dog after a car and dragged it through the main street alive. Unfortunately, in recent days, there was another news that young people themselves had skinned animals alive, specifically to satisfy some kind of aberration. But there are many, many cases where they leave the animals alone, tie them up, and they don't actually give them a chance to get a new chance in some way. But here are the propagating material that feeds to death, for example, dog and kittens, and, of course, we also need to mention when there is commercial holding for farming purposes, to sell as much as possible under cheaper maintenance, as expensively as possible. What torments farm animals who are being held for commercial purposes experience! So it's no wonder a man has a stomachache about reading news like that, and the knife opens up in our pockets and causes stumbling. That is why, and this was also the subject of our oppositional six-party press conference, of course we will adopt this law, to be more precise: we will support this package; together with the fact that after 2010, when you first came to power with a very high rate of two thirds, you should have taken these measures. Ten to eleven years have passed, and quite simply no progress has been made, so we have said that we consider this package of measures to be too late. All the means and opportunities would have been in the hands of the government, and the civilians, whom you refer to with great love, have been ringing the alarm bell for quite some time now, so we find it delayed. Elections are coming, parliamentary elections are held in Hungary in less than five months, cases of such high interest to society, such as animal protection, obviously brought in before the elections, not by accident. I have already said that there are long-awaited proposals, but there is still a lot to be done in the area of animal protection. I would also like to say that one of the most important advances before I get to the point of what modern proposals the six parties are making for you and the country, I would also like to say that when creating a legislative environment, one of the biggest advances that we may be a little further away from is the legal history of the development of Hungarian animal protection, but I can say that without it, very many problems of animal protection can also be prevented. It is important to note that despite the fact that the legalities of animals are still disputed in Hungary today, animals are actually sentient beings. Pain and a lack of satisfying their needs will cause them great suffering. In order to protect them, we humans must act, because as well as children, animals are not able to enforce and defend their own interests. By the way, I would like to say that the ban on animal cruelty was first introduced by the previous left-wing government into the Btk. in 2004. Then a 2003 incident caused a huge social outrage. Three security guards smeared a dog who, of course, did not survive, and in response, a popular initiative was launched in 2003 and in 2004 in Hungary. Four hundred thousand voters signed it, forcing the then Parliament to put the issue on the agenda. It is perhaps worth remembering now that, because of the abolition of the popular initiative in 2014, for example, civil society organisations and Hungarian animal-loving citizens would not have the opportunity to do so. I would restore this popular initiative after the abolition of the 14th, even for the protection of Hungarian animals. Furthermore, I think it is important to stress that I am convinced, and this is perhaps our first proposal and my proposal, that historical and social development has reached the point in Hungary that we are proposing that the protection of animals and the animal kingdom be enshrined in the Constitution. This would otherwise be a very, very important point in the development of a legislative environment, in punishment, in proceedings, in legislation and in the application of law. I will then tell you what are the concrete, modern proposals after the constitution of animal protection that we propose. Firstly, a national animal protection fund should be set up in the Hungarian national budget and included in a separate line. Animal control is a state matter. All due respect to civilians, of course, we have a common cause, but we can no longer rely only on the fact that civilians protect animals in Hungary without saving their own strength, money, time and work. State involvement should open up a concrete leg in the Hungarian budget, and the national animal protection fund would be a separate state fund to support civil society organisations and state-owned institutions carrying out animal protection tasks, as well as other animal protection programmes. The Fund's task would be to establish and maintain a national network of sites at least at county level for the reception of confiscated animals. We consider it very important to open up the possibility of having a state-owned, state-funded establishment in each county, whether for livestock confiscation or for co-animals, to which these animals can be transported and are adequately protected and in the environment. In addition, support for the functioning of civil society organisations performing animal protection tasks, as well as the development and expansion of their activities through a tendering system, for which a relatively larger amount should be allocated within the national animal protection fund, and a very serious quality assurance system would need to be developed this would be a huge step forward in Hungarian animal protection. Of course, the national neutering programme is worthy of recognition, which Mr Ovadi has paid for it, but the organisation and funding of national neutering programmes must be repeated every year and this must also be borne out by the national animal protection fund. Of course, to promote the adoption of orphan animals, information, information for social purposes, education and education would benefit from this fund. I can give you a minimum amount, a budget of 15-20 billion, but more like 25-30 billion. Obviously, you could say starry skies, but basically, the tasks that we defined in the first round, I tried to price with honor and honor. If the numbers aren't complete, obviously, but I think he's on the basis of a debate. Further, the Animal Protection Ombudsman is proposed to be set up after a possible change of government by the six-party opposition. The animal protection ombudsman shall monitor the performance of the animal protection tasks and regularly inform the Parliament, the institutions and organisations concerned, and the public of their experience in the field of animal protection. It draws the attention of Parliament, the government and the institutions and natural persons concerned to the threat of animal infringements. [[11.20]] The Ombudsman may initiate criminal proceedings with the competent investigating authority. The Ombudsman may initiate amendments to the legislation with the body empowered to do so, and the animal protection ombudsman may supervise the operation of the Fund, propose proposals and programmes to be supported by the Animal Protection Fund. The Ombudsperson for Animal Protection is nominated jointly by the heads of the political groups of Parliament; Parliament elects him for five years with the support of the majority of its Members. Any Hungarian citizen who has at least ten years of professional experience in the field of animal health and animal protection may be elected to the Ombudsman for the protection of animals at the elections of the Members of Parliament. The Ombudsman for the Protection of Animals shall be assisted by an official organisation. It would be very important for us to do this nationwide, as is the case with the already established Budapest Animal Protection Ombudsman. My fellow Member, Gergely Kálló, spoke about how to disable online reproduction advertisements and commercial advertisements that are prohibited and can be used as a means of reproduction of animals. Therefore, it is prohibited to continue the breeding of dogs for animal cruelty under this law. In particular, breeding which leads to the deterioration of the health of the breeding dog, the development of chronic disease, the transfer of genetic diseases to the offspring, the death of the animal should be considered as a breeding practice for the purpose of profit. Further: advertising and advertising of activities under the paragraph above is prohibited. Where the person carrying out this activity advertises and places advertisements on the Internet website, the media content provider shall prevent the publication of the advertisement and terminate access to the content placed. If the media service provider fails to fulfil its obligation under this paragraph, it may be fined for the protection of animals under this Act and may be imposed again and again. On the other hand, my fellow Member Gergely Kálló has already talked about this: I would be even more pro-coercive than animal fighting, and I would like to make one more tightening up for the organizer and the spectator. The viewer gets 0-2 years, and it's very good that he's in; the organizers get 1-5 years, but I'd be grounded for 3-5 years, and of course, if he's a repeat organizer, I'd like to show him in this package, and he'll get a penalty of 5-8 years. So here, I'd like to add a new element and tighten it up. What my colleague Kálló also mentioned, and I think he also responded that it was written for the poisoning cases, so that toxic baits, that this would affect more animals. It is also important for an animal, so not just for more, but I believe that this has already been modified, and this is commendable. I would like to add this to what my colleague Kálló has already said, that I would also include in this circle the prohibition of permanent harm and death trappings, among toxic baits and other harm baits, of course distinguishing all the trapping devices which are intended to protect animals. I also consider it very important, among my proposals, to make my own amendment, which, unfortunately, has been voted off by the Committee on Agriculture, but thank God, the six-party factions support this, and I also ask you not to vote against it, but to help implement the establishment of the national veterinary on-call system for holidays and weekends. This could be done on a voluntary basis, with an amount of 2.5 billion. The Veterinary Chamber supports this; I would consider it very important. The investigation of animal welfare police is also our goal. Of course, what I personally suggest is that there be such a thing within the police force. I think it's realistic to do it there today. Finally, education: children should be taught to love and protect animals on a compulsory basis in the National Basic Training Plan. Remember, I'm sure and my time is up, Mr. President, and I'm gonna need three more seconds in the case of the meringue, when a child reached inside the cage and the pregnant meager got caught. They didn't do it on purpose, I'm sure they told the kids, but public education should be compulsory. Mr President, I would like to thank you with respect for the 18-second delay.
u2021-11-10-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to notary Gergely Arató, Member, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-11-10-29	Thank you very much. Animal protection is an issue in which it is easy or perhaps easier for all of us to put aside the usual party political battles. That is what I will be trying to do, too, although Mr Ovadi's exposé would provoke me to debate at some point, but I am putting these aside because I think that is not what is important. I would like to say, and perhaps this is the most important, and this is both a criticism and a compliment that more has happened in the last year than in the last ten years of the Fidesz government. I think it's a good thing something's going on. That is basically what we should be happy about, and I think that, since we are all here looking at the matter in a way that we can see from the debate so far, I think that we should recognise the results that have happened and recognise that it is good that we have this bill before us at last. It is good to finally have a proposal before us, which, at some critical points, represents real help and real support. We can say, and we will say, that this may be too little and too late, but it is something that represents progress, which is why I would also like to confirm the opposition consensus that we can basically support this proposal. Our problem is not with what's in this proposal, but with what's left out. We want a lot more than that. Once the majority of governments have finally given us a way to negotiate animal protection in Parliament, because for ten years they have consistently rejected even the inclusion of all opposition initiatives in the field of animal protection, if that is the case now, we would like to use it to broaden this consensus, to look for new topics that we can include in this law, and which we can now agree and agree on. On the part of the Democratic Coalition, I support all the opposition proposals that we have been talking about here; I would just like to highlight a few of them as a list. This is how I see it, hopefully in a new constitution, matters relating to the protection of animals and constitutional protection of animal rights. This is what I consider to be, and one of the most important steps, is to create a budget resource dedicated to animal protection, which does not make it dependent on ad hoc government decisions to receive support from civil society organisations and to what extent they receive support. Obviously, Congressman, you are pleased to talk about how many organizations have received these. We also have a lot of complaints about how many organizations there are and how many important activities there are that have not been found. But there is a way to do this in parliamentary democracies: to make a budget line for this, to create a transparently distributed animal protection fund. This will provide a way to finance various civil, municipal or state activities. This is what we consider the Ombudsman's case to be, and obviously it is my concern in education, the emergence of animal protection in education, even though perhaps I would argue a nuance with Mrs. Congresswoman that I consider this not primarily a matter of teaching material, rather a question of education, but also a question of an approach to education policy. As you believe in the curriculum-based approach, indeed, the solution at this moment is to focus on this educational goal in the National Basic Study Plan. I would like to talk about three things in more detail, namely criminal law and criminal justice. Firstly, with regard to the amendment of the Btk., I would not like to repeat the items mentioned by our fellow Members. I'd like to say a corner, however, which I think is very important. The change in the current legislation also applies only to qualified cases. Thus, it does not tighten the punishment for animal cruelty in unqualified cases, which, in addition to current judicial practice, means that our fellow citizens who deliberately torture animals will continue to be punished. [[11.30]] And I have to say, it's not okay. I think that Congressman Vejkey, who is a much better expert on criminal law issues than I am, will say that social hazard, the prevalence of behaviour, does justify criminal changes, and we are discussing them several times in Parliament. The social outrage that is in society today in relation to animal cruelty, and the outrageous events that are happening, I think today require that we take a deep breath here, and, in addition to the amendment of the detailed rules, review the sentence of Btk. for animal torture as a whole. Secondly, I would also like to express myself even more firmly in the case of animal police than my fellow Members. Without teeth, the law is powerless, we cannot enforce a significant part of today's animal protection legislation, and the institutional system, whether on the official side or on the law enforcement side, that operates today in this area, cannot handle the problem. Again, I have to say that this government was not stinging or afraid to deal with social problems by law enforcement. [[Dr. Pál Völner: 2006!]] Now, this is a case where there really is room for a police approach. In many other cases this may not have been appropriate, but in this area it would be appropriate to have a clearly responsible police body in this area. As you said, Mrs President, our proposal is to make this a stand-alone organisation alongside the police, but we would certainly be willing to compromise on a different legal solution, but the point is that this cannot be avoided. There are positive examples, my fellow Member Gergely Kálló mentioned this when the animal protection and other powers in the competence of the local government allow us to carry out these tasks, even if it is difficult, but let us not forget that there are not only cities, but not only strong municipalities. There are a number of municipalities where this is an unsolvable task. We therefore believe that there is a need to establish an animal protection guard, animal police and animal police, which is built on the basis of professional considerations, which have substantial powers and is properly funded. Finally, the third case is also mentioned because the proposal takes a small step in this, and only a big step should be taken. The proposal simplifies the procedure in the case of banning livestock, which we approve of, but we believe that this is not a good solution. To understand what this is all about: in such cases, what is happening is that, in essence, in civil proceedings, there is a ban on keeping animals. There's a much simpler solution, the Btk. include in other cases: this element must be included in the Btk. as an additional penalty. As it should be said, let us say, a ban on public affairs can be ordered in a Btk. judgment to give this very simple example, so that a similar penalty can be imposed for the prohibition of keeping animals, and in this case the strange procedure does not have to be applied. It's really improving with the fact that the court of its own motion sends such cases to I don't know who, whatever, of its own motion, to the animal welfare authority, who will initiate the I don't know what, but there's no need for that. Let this punishment simply be part of the criminal proceedings, so that this punishment should also be imposed in the manner set out in the Btk. in such cases. Once again, there's a Btk precedent, it's not very complicated, we're going to submit it. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which may be beyond the scope of this bill. We all want a country where certain things can't happen, for example, it can't happen that healthy animals are put to sleep in lawns because of a lack of space. It can be solved, even with disputes, but it could be solved on the Scented Road. This may not be the subject of this bill, it may not fit into this bill, but the government has a way and an opportunity to provide adequate resources for this problem. So this is partly a financial issue, and I understand that, and it is also a question of interest in what interests we make municipalities interested in, in what interests we are interested in the maintenance of the settlements. So with financial interest, regulation, a little more money could achieve this goal. I think this is also a fundamental moral issue: if we accept that animal life is valuable, then it cannot be that we kill and destroy animals only because of lack of space. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-30	Thank you very much, Mr Gergely Arató, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-10-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by rejecting Mr Ovadi's assumptions in his statement that the opposition will not vote in favour of this bill, and he assumes this on the basis that he has allegedly heard the opposition's joint press conference. I would like to say here that the opposition will vote in favour of this bill. I will not go into detail now, my fellow Members have said before me that the opposition will make joint proposals for this bill, and the reason for this is that there are important steps, important tasks that we believe should be taken as soon as possible and are missing from this package. I would ask the honourable pro-government majority to do so in the same way that we will vote for your bill, with the opposition's amendments, because together we could indeed adopt a proposal amending a far more comprehensive animal protection law. Now I would like to continue my comment with the words of Ágnes Széchy, former president of the Fauna Association, who fought with fantastic dedication and determination for the better life of animals, who played a leading role in the creation of the Animal Protection Act. He said that animal protection should be used as a means of human education. I think these are words to consider, but we also see, my honourable members of the Government, that you are very behind in this task, both politically and morally. I have mixed feelings for the bill before us as a green politician. Just now, as owner of just three dogs and several other animals, I have to say that I am very pleased that this is here on the Parliament's table, and we can finally talk about our duties and government duties in the field of animal protection, but I am a little desperate to ask why the Fidesz government is only starting to deal with the situation and suffering of the sentient beings around us now, half a year before the elections. Dear fellow Members who have submitted, You've been on the government for 11 years, two-thirds majority. In addition, animal welfare is a case in which they are fully supported and yet they are acting now. Why? This question must be asked. I am also asking because, in recent years, civil society organisations, civil animal defenders and opposition parties have made a lot of useful proposals in the field of animal protection, but so far, almost no progress has been made. We could have saved the lives of thousands of animals if you had accepted our previous proposals, but we found that you did not do so for political reasons. What we have seen almost every day is that what the opposition has given you has not been accepted. Otherwise, don't get me wrong, we are not vain, we are also happy to see that you are willing to discuss our proposals with appropriate drafts in the content of your proposals. Therefore, earlier in the previous parliamentary term, the group of the LMP even did so that when it prepared a comprehensive package of amendments to the Animal Protection Act with civilians and you did not allow it to be included in the series of articles, we sent this package to the competent minister because it was important for us to take the necessary steps in the matter of animal protection. [[11.40]] However, you have sunk that proposal into the bottom of the drawer, and you have not even been willing to let it go to Parliament in this way. Unfortunately, this shows that in the last 11 years, animal welfare and animal affairs have not been important to you. Of course, I do not want to bore you now with a detailed list of how many animal protection proposals LMP has made since 2010 and what content it contains, but I would like to present at least the most important ones that have been submitted in the last few years. I do not need to mention that, unfortunately, the pro-government group has not accepted any of these proposals, nor has it supported the inclusion of any of them in the series of subjects, so that we can at least talk here at the Parliament and debate these issues. Indeed, without the need for completeness: we have tabled a proposal to tighten the penalties for animal torture, we are pleased that it is here on the table, to ban fireworks, to create funding for shelters, and a small amount of money would have greatly improved the situation of animals in shelters, the protection of farm animals, the protection of domestic bees and other pollinating insects, the ban on bee-killing glyphosate, the humane capture of stray animals and the launch of spaying programmes, and the strengthening of the sources of non-governmental organisations dealing with animal protection. Yes, I am very pleased and welcome the representatives of civil society organisations here, but I am sure that every civil society organisation dealing with animal protection would have been very, very important to help them with their financing problems and to receive adequate financial support to carry out their tasks. We have presented proposals for introducing animal protection education in primary and secondary education. I hope that now the pro-government majority will also accept the amendment proposal to make animal protection education mandatory in the National Basic Study Plan. I would recommend that the Members of this House also consider these old proposals, in case they are inspired, and perhaps even if they are not here now, they may be brought before the Parliament. The draft legislation before us, which we have just tabled, aims to strengthen the legal environment related to animal protection, thereby ensuring responsible livestock farming. That is very right and, of course, we will support it. However, the justification is that the legislative proposal was drawn up on the basis of the responses received in the animal protection consultation. I would like to note here that this should not be justified. It should have been seen, and it should have been seen earlier, that it was a particularly cruel case of animal cruelty that caused a lot of public uproar, for example, not so long ago, the mass, deliberate poisoning of birds of prey, and we are pleased that this proposal is finally here. Although it also arises, I suppose you do not doubt why only now, why only five months before the next parliamentary elections. The proposal provides for the possibility of strict criminal law and rules on handling the animal situation in criminal proceedings by creating new classified cases in the case of animal cruelty. Again, I can say that this proposal needs to be supported, and we will also support it. Only twice this year, the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, submitted a proposal to increase penalties for animal torture. It also covers the draft that you have tabled in the content of our previous proposal, so I will say again that we do not want to hear it later, and we will support the adoption of the law. However, we believe that, quite rightly, Fidesz-KDNP representatives have refused to negotiate the tightening of penalties, that this is really important, and that we will support it together by consensus. Despite the fact that the current bill is a necessary step, we believe that this is far from enough in the area of animal protection. Until there is sufficient resources for the work of animal-protection civilians and authorities, for animal protection education, for the humane care and adoption of stray animals, and for you to suggest to young people that it is better to shoot, stuff and show animals as museum pieces than to respect and protect them as part of nature, the tightening of penalties alone will not radically reduce the number of animal-torture cases. We want to draw attention to the fact that this is an important step, but it is not enough. I therefore call on the pro-government representatives to support the proposals that come from us, which are the joint proposals of the five opposition groups. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see any need for a two-minute comment, so I give the floor to the pre-notified speaker, Mrs Anett Bősz.
u2021-11-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, welcome the experts and animal defenders who have appeared here and those who have helped us in this work, because there is indeed a legislative amendment proposal before us with the social need that has been going on for a long time, and I have just been told here by my fellow Members before me that we have indeed been waiting for such a legislative proposal for years. I think it is important to say that any criticism or any additional comments that we would like to see in this bill will be brought before this House with a positive intention, in the hope that we will find the best possible solution for co-animals as well as for farmed animals. I would like to point out first of all that the long-standing ambition of animal defenders is the establishment of an ombudsman institution for the protection of animals and the establishment of the animal police. While the proposal meets with the social need to have a real multi-annual prison sentence for animal torturers, I can point out as a deficiency that the proposal is not sufficiently coherent, it maintains the possibility in many cases of animal cruelty that animal torture should not be punished for merit in the light of other circumstances. At the same time, I think it is a step forward that damage to nature is also mentioned in the proposal, the placing of poison or baits is punishable by imprisonment of up to two years. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) According to the text of the proposal, and I am already saying the deficiency here, Mr President, this is the case when, turning to the authors, we discover a threat to the lives of several animals in one act. I believe that the endangerment of one animal gives rise to a much more serious punishment than before. And let us enforce them, not simply because this may have a deterrent effect, but because if we are talking about this, that the life of a single animal is precious, then I think that sooner or later it will also reach those who have to talk about it among themselves, or neighbors who notice that there is no need to place a poison in order for an animal to die in agony, it is enough to hold an animal irresponsiblely. It is enough to keep an animal chained and, let's say, do not realize that in the summer heat of 40 degrees, for example, the animal has nowhere to hide in the garden. And if we look at these neighbors, who do feel responsible, and let's say the competent body of the local government is notified, I have to say that, for example, in the rarest case, we find a specialist, an animal protector or an animal rescuer who can tell us exactly what state this animal is in and exactly what kind of care it needs. [[11.50]] This would be extremely important because we see that at the moment the civil world is a very important state, or I would argue for the local government, by the way, that their resources are very often uncertain and come from donations. When an animal is seized because it is noticed by the competent administration that it has not been properly held, and that the seized animal, let us say, does not go straight to the adoptive hosts, but to a shelter, for example, we do not know that this animal will eventually find those loving adoptive owners who will give him a better fate. It should therefore also be addressed in this amending proposal. The proposal consistently uses the term forbidden animal fighting, implying, at the same time, that there are animal fightings allowed in Hungary. But that is not the case, fellow Members. All animal fighting is forbidden, so I ask the author, or even the Ministry of Justice, to correct this text, because I think that the social need has also been created to acknowledge that all animal fighting is prohibited in Hungary today, which is correct in its order. I think that you agree with this, too, so it would be good if this were reflected in the text of the bill. It is important to note that if the court has convicted the keeper of animals of animal cruelty or of illegal animal fighting, it shall notify the animal protection authority and the latter shall carry out official controls. This is the text mentioned by the law. Let me confirm what my colleague Mr Gergely Arató has already said that the whole current regulation is wrong. If animal cruelty is found, the keeper should be prohibited in a separate civil court procedure or the perpetrator should be prohibited from keeping animals in a separate civil court procedure. I think that it can be banned, as my fellow Member Gergely Arató said: if there is such a thing as banning someone from public affairs, then it is also possible to prohibit them from keeping animals. I personally had this experience. Neighbors really came to me in awe because they saw a dog who hadn't had any food or water in the last two days, and they were only hoping that this short - chained animal would be smart enough to get under the half - covered door on the doghouse in this starving and thirsty state. But they don't cross the fence to provide him with water and food. I think, fellow Members, that it is not possible to put a living being, a sentient being, in such a situation, and I think that anyone who gets here with a dog for just a few days should be banned from keeping animals for at least a few years. In this regard, my next suggestion. I suggest that someone chooses between paying the fine, if they find out that he didn't keep an animal well, or that he's enrolled at cost in a dog school and says that I want to learn, I didn't want to hold my own state badly, I want to... [[To Peter Ovádi:]] Mr President, I do not think that this proposal should be smiled. I'd like to learn how to work with my own animal, I'd like to learn his behavior, I'd like to learn what it's like to give a reaction to something, but I misunderstood, and he may have reacted badly, and he may have attacked someone or me. I think we are talking to a large extent about serious issues, and it is also a legitimate need for animal defenders who deal directly with animals who are traumatized in their field of vision, precisely because of what my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi and Gergely Arató have already said that the National Basic School does not include responsible livestock farming. Of course, you can smile at the fact that someone, say, is obligated to not keep an animal well and go to dog school, but I just think that if we learn that early, we don't hold an animal badly. Then we know exactly how to work with him, and we know exactly how to feed him, how to reward him, how to discipline him, how to keep him inside a fence. For example, I think of such cases where a fine can be imposed on a dog holder, because the dog runs away from him, and when the animal rescuers bring him back to him, he says that he is enjoying himself here. I don't understand. I think there is something wrong with the system, my honourable fellow Member. But I'll tell you a few things that have also been left out of this legislative proposal. Indeed, as has been said here by the fellow Members in the opposition benches, we are criticising not the fact that this amendment has been made, but what has been left out of it. For example, the punishment for misuse of pyrotechnic articles or the punishment for firecracking. This was proposed earlier, but withdrawn before the final vote. It was a fidesz suggestion. I don't know why they took it back. The ban on circus livestock, the protection of dogs from hunters, the protection of bees, it's all gone. We talked about the progress of mandatory chirping. Yeah, it's just that it's not necessarily possible to keep it, it's not necessarily possible to enforce it. We can see from the animal rescue reports how many chipless dogs they encounter who are not necessarily wandering around, they only find that they hold it wrong and are confiscated. Then, fellow Members, a new institutional system must be established that is responsible for this. It can be created! Our task is not only to control, but to control these animals, which are already born and will live soon, I will also address propagating material towards the end of my speech, we are all responsible for its well-being, especially those who are keepers of animals. For example, for the aid of mandatory chirping, compulsory vaccination or compulsory neutering... because if we can arrange a blood donor, we can arrange a veterinary truck. If we can arrange a filter amion, then we can also arrange a truck where unfit animals can enter, and we can say that it finally has a pinch, it's finally inoculated, we finally know what condition it is at all, because most dog farmers find neglected animals, otherwise they don't know that. It would be important, and it is also an animal protection requirement that the dog census be checked much more closely. In this case, you would already know how many percent of the dogs you prescribed were unpopulated, when they were last vaccinated. It is one thing to take action against propagating material, but when breeding has already taken place, adoption in the most effective and healthiest condition should be helped. I do also miss the effort to do so. On the basis of the request of the animal defenders who have recently visited me, I would very much support an appropriate envelope for a municipal system that, in addition to rescue operations, can also provide spaying programs, animal patrol and available veterinary care to livestock keepers. We have to face the fact that the prices of veterinary clinics can indeed open up social scissors among us between animal keepers and keepers, where farmers from a less good financial situation, who love their animals as much as their better countrymen, are at a disadvantage in terms of veterinary care. It is extremely important that adequate resources be created for these. Once again, I see the proposal as forward-looking, Mr President, and I think it should be supported in the same way that the opposition as a whole can expect us to have joint amendments. [[12.00]] It would also be very important to provide professionals with local governments that do want to provide protection for animals in danger, but they have not yet been given resources or professionals. I think that would be a good effort. I am very confident that opposition amendments will be supported by the majority of governments as well as by their own proposals. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-10-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue our work, with the next speaker from the Dialogue, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, we have been looking forward to the work of the Commissioner for Ministers, since he has been appointed, we have submitted several proposals on animal protection since then, and before that, the governing party has usually swept these proposals off the table without justification. There was so much new news after the appointment of the Commissioner for Ministers that they said that he had started his work and that he would submit a comprehensive proposal on this, and that is why we were very much looking forward to this happening at the time. Thank you very much. We're glad that this time has come, we've almost been paralyzed by the legislation in the field of animal protection, but this time has come. In agreement with my fellow Members, we really need to ask where these proposals have been for the last 11 years, and this is obviously not for the Commissioner for Ministers, but for the governing parties, who have been the majority of them for the last 11 years. Why is any such proposal on the table only now, after 11 years? We think the Dialogue thinks that these are good directions, but they are too small and too late to be born, and I dare not even think about how many animals have fallen victim to the delay, and how many civilians have sacrificed their own money, their own private time, because the legislation has delayed to make appropriate legislation here. Only last time the Dialogue put a comprehensive proposal on the table, we had a special proposal here for the circus performance of wild animals, because if we talk about animal protection, we also need to talk about that, that wild animals are also sentient beings, and in recent years, there have been several deaths, dead elephants that have probably died because they were not properly treated during the circus machine. So these are also very important questions. This is our criticism with this proposal that only a section of criminal law is now affected by this proposal, which is eligible, and here I am also stating that the Dialogue will vote in favour of this package of proposals. In this respect, the opposition amendment package makes further proposals on the criminal aspect of the law, and we ask that the pro-governments at least look at this and, if they do not agree, explain why they do not agree. If not, build these and accept them. However, there are other questions when it comes to animal protection, because criminal law is half of it. Obviously, it is very important to have a deterrent force or, obviously, to be a retortion if one does such things, but it is more important to prevent these situations from occurring. We have already proposed this. The role of civil society organisations has been discussed here first and most importantly. We are very pleased that this support is on the agenda and that civil society organisations are receiving support, but these are not enough. It has been said here that we should go and talk to civil society organisations, otherwise the proposals that we have put before the Parliament over the past period have also been proposals that have been consulted in advance by civil society organisations, which have been voted down. We go and go, and we meet a lot of civil society organisations who are in need of resources, with their own money, with their own strength, heroic activities. So that's why we're connected to these guys. So I also recommend that my fellow members of the Government do the same and consult as widely as possible with civil society organisations. It is therefore essential, as included in the opposition amendment proposal, that there should be a specific source of funding for civil society organisations, which will provide more and more resources to civil society organisations in the field of animal protection. Our old proposal is to appoint an ombudsman for the protection of animals. This would not take the task away from the Commissioner. I think we can fit these two positions together. It is important to have an owner, a civilian owner of animal protection, one to whom civilians can turn, who can initiate legislation here in Parliament, and who really is monitoring this problem, this matter. The animal police, the creation of some kind of animal police, would also be extremely important, who could act effectively, quickly and on a professional basis in such matters. We worked this out, and we put this on the table. And what I would like to draw attention to in our proposals, which has already been mentioned here, but I cannot stress that we should make animal protection part of the public education curriculum. My experience is that in most cases human evil and similar problems are obviously involved, but in most cases there is ignorance and ignorance behind various animal tortures, and if these people have the right information, if they meet the issues of animal protection at the lowest levels of primary school, then there will be much fewer such cases. That is why this is the beginning and obviously criminal law is the end of animal protection being effective. So overall, in summary, we think that these criminal proceedings are good, but they are not sufficient, and we have complemented them with a number of proposals that my fellow opposition Members have said here. The government usually likes to put these salad laws on the House's table. In recent times, we have become accustomed to these, and various, completely incoherent legislative proposals are being put together. Now would have been the occasion for a really good salad law, which is obviously not only looking at the criminal aspect of this issue, but also at a number of other areas. We think we needed one of these. It is now also a question that this is a first step, and the government is expected to take further action on these matters, or it is now exhausted from the protection of animals from the government and will only initiate criminal law amendments. So we are confident that the government will accept the opposition amendment proposals and we are confident that we will be able to adopt a comprehensive, more comprehensive, more complex proposal in order to ensure that there is an effective animal protection in Hungary. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-11-10-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Bernadett Szél. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I welcome the focus on this topic, the issue of animal protection in the Hungarian Parliament, and thank you for all the work that has been done to make this possible. I think it is very important that this discussion and debate that we are having should be a way of thinking together about how we can continue the efforts that have been put on the table. There's a mass murder going on around the world when we talk about animal welfare, and that's for pollinators. [[12.10]] I would like to shock you a little bit, because the situation is really shocking, and I do not think that a modern Hungarian public debate, when we talk about animals, can save you the opportunity to talk about pollinating protection and bees. Specifically, two thirds of our food would disappear if the bees disappeared and chemical agriculture was the main cause of the decline. I've been trying to quantify the situation a little bit. Many people think that the damage is infinite; so if they disappear, then it is unimportable. But I found an interesting number from 2013. It has been quantified by people who have carried out this analysis that the global economy benefits from insect pollination is EUR 265 billion, so this is what bees do for us. And I also think it is important to say that 77-80 percent of our cultivated food crops in Europe are pollinating bees, and it is simply not possible to feed the continent without pollinators. There is another very important Hungarian aspect of this story. This is specifically the production of honey. Without any pretentiousness, we can safely say that we are a great power of honey, a great power of honey. There are many Hungarian families who produce honey specifically, and they have been complaining for a very long time about chemicals, that they simply have no regard for bees and their work for the people who let these chemicals continue to exist. One of our constant struggles is to kill biological mosquitoes. Deltamethrin is constantly thrown over our heads, not only on our heads, but also on the heads of bees. Otherwise, this is an interesting story because, in principle, at EU level, it would now be prohibited to throw it out of the air, but for some reason during the emergency, it was allowed to do so again, finding a loophole. The other thing is very important, and what is very important to talk about is the use of neonicotinoids. It is a chemical that has been proven to harm bees in their physiological effects, so bees do not develop in that way, their collecting habits change, they simply cannot navigate that way, and their diet changes. So it's definitely very damaging to them. And by the way, on the basis of the precautionary principle, if a chemical is proven to be bad for animals, it should be placed on a ban list, these agrochemicals or agricultural chemicals should not be used at all. The European Union has done its duty. I understand the first time they tried a more narrow ban in 2013, it was banned from 18. And here is the shame that Hungary is one of the countries whose government has been lobbying since 18 and this Fidesz-KDNP government so that these neonicotinoids can be used in agriculture in Hungary. This is more than problematic that this is still the direction of the Hungarian government. There are very strange reasons, I tried to bring such a ban before the Committee on Agriculture, and I simply received arguments in response that are either not true or not modern. Let's say they say that there is no research in Hungary. On the one hand, why aren't there any? So let's do it. On the other hand, if they are abroad and have proved that they are harmful to bees, then tell me what a unique Hungaricum there is in Hungary that protects Hungarian bees from neonicotinoids; foreigners have failed. What is very important here is that foreign countries or other countries in the European Community can do very well without this chemical, their agricultural production has not collapsed. So we're talking about a system malfunction that we're carrying around here, and we're not changing it, because someone in the government's house thinks that besides deltamethrinoids, we need neonicotinoids to go on farming here. No, no, that's not the case. So, with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you to change that. So if we are talking about animal protection very rightly and very importantly, then there is a slice of this that we call pollinator protection. Bees are animals, we depend on them, we need them, and I think there's a world beyond the Btk., let's sweep a little in front of our own house. I think whoever's in charge of the government should take action on this case. I also think it is very important to say that we have a pro-government ally in this whole matter, because I have put my head on it, and I have saved in every way the information that István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, has signed the otherwise successful European Citizens' Initiative, which would drive such bee killer and, in many ways, dangerous poisons out of agriculture. Quite rightly, the European Community also has a biodiversity strategy, which would otherwise reduce pesticides by 50 percent by 2030 and also fertilisers by 20 percent. At the same time, it would increase the share of organic farming in the European Community by a quarter. I've been looking at a data for you, just so we can place ourselves, where we are in organic farming. This is extremely important, because everything in nature is connected to everything. And then, if we protect the bees, it also means that we focus on agricultural methods that are bee-friendly or pollinating, and we reduce those that kill them. The conversion of crops, the increase of ecological areas within the economy, and the promotion of organic farming methods are all bee-friendly methods. Interesting 2019 data from the European Statistical Office: first of all, if we look at organic farming in agriculture, Austria stands 25.3%. They're here, not far from us, and they're the first. We're back in the army. There is a block of less than 6 percent of the countries with organic farming. Hungary belongs here, we have 5.7 percent share of organic farming in agriculture. Indeed, Austria and Hungary are at both ends of the scale, even though we are a neighbouring country. So it is obvious that this is a governance problem, not that Austria is on another planet. So I am of the opinion of everyone sitting on this side of Parliament, because in particular it is in our joint opposition programme that we need to launch a broad domestic programme in order to effectively implement this particular EU biodiversity strategy in Hungary. And this includes the involvement of farmers and their interest, and it includes cooperation with civilians, which I believe is a necessary part of the implementation of all effective government or state programmes. And I would also like to make this whole story a little tangible for you, which is that if we go out into this beautiful autumn, we see this variety of colors that we enjoy constantly in my constituency, for example, because we have a lot of forests and we are trying very hard to take care of them, there are a lot of autumn plants that are beautiful in thousands of colors. 90 percent of these wild plants depend on bees. So it's even more than the dependence of food that we eat for food. There are also many beekeepers, with whom I myself have sought contact, and we have also tried to include among our suggestions proposals which also spare their beekeeping, quite simply the bees who work on honey production, according to my information, we are talking about approximately 35 thousand Hungarian families across the country to spare bees from encountering chemicals. It's a constant struggle. There are a lot of problems with this, and I very much ask the authorities to hear the words of honey producers and beekeepers calling for help. They have a professional organization. Simply starting with mosquito control, until agricultural chemicals are used, serious reforms are needed here to protect our bees. A third of the bee population in Hungary is estimated to be affected. I've spoken to beekeepers who think the problem is even worse. What I wanted to tell you to make this story even more tangible, there's the apple we all love, eat, say that one apple a day keeps the doctor away, part of a healthy diet, strawberry, tomato, almonds. These sectors are all at risk if pollinators are put at risk. [[12.20]] But actually, if we go out into nature, I can't really show you a place that would stay if there were no bees. Without bees, there's only worse and worse. So I am aware of this and support the whole of the law, to a large extent, along with the amendments. I think that this is a forward-looking and important debate or thinking together. It finally happens, these stories are finally in focus, which, by the way, caused terrible problems for many Hungarians. A lot of people have been asking for years to finally focus on this in the Hungarian Parliament. It seems that now the governing parties have reached the point of finally making their move in 2021. But it's okay, it's important that they move. However, I think that we should be honest with ourselves and be honest with our own situation, say that the rules are worth exactly what can be observed. So if these are voted by the Hungarian Parliament, I hope that we will follow these rules by a hundred percent. I respectfully ask you not to forget these very small animals, bees and pollinators, nor what our duty is as legislators, decision-makers for today and tomorrow if we talk about bees. It's almost cliché, but I'm going to tell you that Albert Einstein is to be attributed the saying that if the bees die, then humanity doesn't have much time left. It's a climate crisis, climate change. I think that there should be a national consensus on green issues, and I also have this idea that we should go as far as possible to find a voice with each other, if we are talking about green issues, if it does not work here in Parliament; I see green painting more than real green thinking. What I see out there, among the people, is that the climate crisis just kicked the door at us, and everyone's interested in finally taking action. In resolving the climate crisis, the protection of bees and pollinators has a very important role to play, and I ask for everyone's cooperation in this, and I ask that you support the opposition proposals that serve this purpose. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-10-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mrs Márta Demeter, representing LMP. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The welfare of animals is also a measure of the welfare of society. I would also like to emphasise at the beginning of my speech that we will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, but it is indeed a very late proposal, and I would not like to be the hundredth to repeat it. But the reason we have to do this is because when you took over government, you could say that this may not be the most pressing problem that needs to be resolved, obviously every government has different priorities. It is unfortunate, of course, that this is not the subject, but you may have said so. However, a lot has happened since then, now beyond the fact that eleven years have passed. But if this is not a priority for a government in the current opposition, it certainly will not be, it will be a priority for us, but even if it wasn't for you, at least those social awareness signs, events and, by the way, tragedies that have happened should have led them to act earlier. For example, I would like to remind you that, following several terrible and tragic cases, in 2016, there was a huge protest on the protection of animals by bringing together civil society organisations, really citizens, politicians, civil society organisations, involved, a lot of people took part in this event. There was a work in progress, which was also attended by pro-government, opposition and a lot of civil society organisations. A number of laws were made, which were specifically laid down on your desk, and everything was swept off. So, if nothing else, these points should have been taken in any way. I think it is important to emphasise this because there may be issues where you can do this before. I suggest you don't wait so long, because, yes, as my colleague, Kocsis-Cake Olivio mentioned, we don't know how many animals have had their lives on this. Let's hope it's less, but unfortunately, I'm much more negative about this thing, and I see it much sadder. I'd like to bring you another point. A series of research shows that the majority of people who abuse animals abuse their vulnerable neighbors in the same way. Sadly, this occurs primarily in the family, so the smaller child, the disabled child or family member, or the elderly, vulnerable parent, is much more likely to be abused by these people. So, obviously, we have to stop at the very beginning, and at the very beginning, we have to impose the most severe punishment. As Vice-President Erzsébet Schmuck mentioned, the LMP had a specific package, and we have also incorporated a lot of amendments over the years, since it was our colleague Sallai R. Benedict who initiated this work, and since then there has been a lot of work to be done. We will also present the elements of this amending package to this proposal, and it is natural that we will also present the elements of the joint opposition programme, with which it is fully coherent, which have already been presented by my fellow Members. So if there really is a real intention to make a difference here, and, by the way, once again, to stress that yes, we need to tighten it up, and by the way, if it were up to me, we could double these sentences, and the limit is really the starry sky, because these people should not simply be left in society under the same conditions, without punishment, who are doing acts leading to such tragic events. However, if you are serious, you will accept these proposals that we are making, because, as my fellow Members have said, there is tightening up here, and it is very right, at last, but we are not seeing a complex package yet, and what really matters is how much of a law can be enforced. In many cases, it is also a problem now that if there is such a case of animal cruelty or mass poisoning or other tragic cases, people who commit these crimes simply do not receive the appropriate or even appropriate punishment now. Therefore, the institutional system must be developed in any way, both by examining and very rigorously monitoring the implementation system itself and by sensitiveising and training those acting on the steps in question. There is a clear need for animal police within the police force. Obviously, this police force, part of it, can be properly trained to identify and deal with these cases, as well as in the area of justice, as other complex programmes, such as those against domestic violence, clearly recommend and mention as a basis the preparation of these large systems, so that otherwise the visibility can be reduced as much as possible, and the penalties can actually be implemented and the law can be enforced. Clearly, the education of responsible livestock farming must be included in both the basic curriculum and in the public discourse of society. It's got to be an expectation for people to face each other. Obviously, there is also a need for an approach-forming campaign, and I am obviously referring here to the word "campaign" because of its technique. Obviously, this is a long process, so we need a decade-long campaign here, not a one-time, one-off amount. It is clear that substantial protection must be granted both for co-animals and for farmed animals. We have a number of problems and signals coming in. We have also experienced that, on the one hand, they have indicated that very few dogs are clipped compared to the amount of animals still need to be clipped, and obviously this should also be done. But these chips should also be read, so if they catch an animal, then obviously this should also be of fundamental importance. Obviously, if that animal and the owner are lucky, then an animal protection organisation and a civil society organization will find that animal, or a policeman who is otherwise in the absolute picture and has a great deal of decency; fortunately, there are many such cases, but unfortunately, there are other examples. Here I would like to address the support of organisations, the support of civil society organisations, the support of shelters. After all, the figures that Congressman Ovadi mentioned were a little over 140 million forints distributed to 67 animal protection organizations, which is about two million forints per organisation. In many places, if we talk about the placement of only 50-60 animals, which is a very nice number, by the way, there is about two million forints that do not cover a month's supply of animals. [[12.30]] So, by the way, it's really good every single forint that's been translated into this, but I have to say, this is the XXI. However, these resources need to be clearly increased, and we have already said what we consider a solution to this. The question of compulsory neutering comes before us on several occasions. It can be argued that this should be made compulsory, or that certain campaigns, state aid, or the provision of a public organisation or even veterinary option to people for whom this is not affordable, are not available under the current circumstances. That this is the way to perform neutering, or that this must be made compulsory, can also be discussed, but the re-production of the problem, i.e. the fact that a lot of animals are placed on the streets every day, every week, every year, and the problem is constantly being re-produced, must be resolved in any way and prevented. The state also has a lot of work to do in this area, and given that most of the resources are in the state, I do not think that these tasks can be assigned to the municipalities. We also need to talk about lawn-master farms, because there are some places where they operate with very, very decency, and unfortunately there are many places where there are no places at all. And otherwise, it would not occur to anyone for a moment that a perfectly healthy animal should really be put to sleep only because of the lack of space and put out his life, so it must be a meaningful step. Nor can this, I think, leave it to the municipalities, because they have a lot of tasks, very little resources, they are terribly overwhelmed, and there is no doubt about their intention here, because they are doing the same, but there is neither human nor financial capacity to operate them properly in many cases, or the company that operates it is not doing so properly. So we've got to make a move on this one, too. So now this bill is a very important step, and we finally have these fundamental restrictions. I would very much ask that this bill be supplemented with opposition proposals, which are, by the way, oddly said to be opposition proposals, because, in this way, many civil society organisations have been involved in the development of these, and indeed, there were times when the government was consulted in this development, so these are absolutely not alien things; they should be built in. And what is going to be extremely important, and unfortunately, 90 percent of the laws are not going to have to look at how the norm, which has been adopted, how it looks in implementation, and what problems it has, what anomalies it has, which is not a party policy issue, because once it is voted, and everyone will vote for it, it will certainly not be Fidesz's fault if the X.Y. does not receive the same punishment, or if it has not been discovered in a particular case, if it is a complex proposal, so if you complete it, because, right, there is still a lot missing. So that's exactly why I'm asking you to look at the implementation of this, to make it work well, and if you don't, correct me. Obviously, even if this happens by April, I can say that we can count on our support in this to be corrected, and let us see how this can be improved, and obviously this will not be a party political issue in the period that follows. The fact that it's someone's priority or not, well, that's a party policy issue, that's what I said at the beginning. The involvement of veterinarians is also necessary because, in many cases, there is a great deal of vision here too, so many cases of animal cruelty and irresponsible cases of animal husbandry are not revealed. It's the vets who can tell immediately when they see the animal that the poor thing really fell off the second floor and suffered that injury because of irresponsible animal support, or they kicked a terrible one, and that's why. A vet can tell you that right away. They are therefore desperately needed, and, yes, veterinary care is also needed to provide them with care for people living in poverty, but, in other words, decently for people living with their animals. I would therefore like to ask you to support the opposition proposals, which is basically a forward-looking thing, and we will really even jointly monitor what this proposal looks like in practice. In any case, we also increase financial support and attention to civil society organisations, as we are once again in a Covid situation where they have experienced a lot of things over the past year and a half. There were a lot of people who misplaced their animals because there was a rumor that they would spread Covid, which, of course, is not true. They were faced with cases where, on the one hand, their incomes were reduced, but they had to feed a lot more animals, and, unfortunately, for the time being, this situation does not seem to be improving, but is constantly deteriorating, so more support and more attention will be needed there. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-10-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to draw attention to four little things very quickly because of the shortness of my time frame. Firstly, I would very much like to lobby for the establishment of an on-call system on weekends and holidays. I would like to ask Mr Ovadi and the members of the Government that this has been done on the Committee on Agriculture, which is said to have been voted off only because the opposition has proposed it. Please reconsider, take this suggestion into your own. The second thing I'm saying is that there's been little talk today about livestock. Unfortunately, there have been several cases in Hungary in recent years where animals have been kept under amazing conditions during the keeping of animals for commercial use, and when the animal protection team went out and called the official veterinarian, after a few sentences, it turned out that the colony was also a market-based veterinarian, so he knew what was going on, and he assisted him all along. So there are such mergers. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, said that implementation needs to be carefully monitored, and although the paper can handle everything in the legislation, there are often such mergers in real life. Please be aware of this when establishing a law or regulating procedures. I would also like to consider the basic kindergarten education programme important. We have talked about the National Basics and the appearance of animal protection in public education at the level of the curriculum. The basic kindergarten education program is important because there the kindergarten teachers have already introduced the children with the love of animals, the knowledge of animals, and the rules of proper animal farming and animal protection can already be put in place there, and the sooner we start this, the more successful we can be. And finally, when the punishment is imposed by the authorities, please ask the local governments that, where appropriate, the farm is not well kept because the farmer himself is poor because his husband is dead, there is no other pension, or... so that he consciously tortures that animal or not. Thank you very much. [[To Peter Ovádi:]] Allow me, I have to go to the vet's house with my vissla, so it won't be disrespectful that I don't listen to it, but I will look back at what you said, and thank you for the extra time. Goodbye. [[Defiance. Applause in the ranks of LMP, DK and independents.]]
u2021-11-10-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ovádi, as rapporteur, if you would like to answer the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Ovádi:]] I see you have a wish. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said, and I really thank you very much for the constructive contributions that have come to the legislative change package, and thank you very much for the parties that will support this. I am very pleased, by the way, that none of you, with the legislative package itself, had any objection or even support for this. [[12.40]] I will be very interested to know what amendments will be sent to us, which, of course, we will look at. Basically, I'd like some of the responses that we need to clear up here. My colleague Gergely Kálló and my fellow Member Arató also mentioned the regulation of advertisements. I don't know, you know, ask the civil society associations that, unfortunately, propagating material doesn't advertise on these advertising platforms. Those aren't the propagatings that have been... [[Gergely Kálló: Yes, you can!]] Just hear me out, okay? These are in online groups that are very difficult to detect, but we are trying to do something about them by all means. Large propagating animals do not publish their activities on these surfaces, but try to sell them in secret groups. We have ordered a very comprehensive investigation into the operation of the pedigree settlements, and we also have a government regulation amendment, and I hope that it will be published soon. I think we need to start here, where we're going to review the pedigree settlements, review their operations, and make their operation transparent. I would like to warn my fellow Member of the need to equip the police with official tasks. I don't know, you know, outside of Dunaújváros, how the services of the police operate. I think we should start by saying that the Animal Protection Centre is also trying to come up with proposals on how we can train these people, because this is very lacking, and then we can talk about what rights they will receive. I don't think we're in this phase yet. I am very pleased that in Dunaújváros, the services are provided by a non-governmental organisation, but there are also 60-70 settlements provided by an entrepreneur, a dog marshal. It is very important and they have all mentioned the need to create animal police in some form. I have experienced and have said this many times that cooperation is about how successful we are in animal protection. I think we need to clarify who's in charge. And I would warn you not to create an animal police within the police force, because then we're going to take the civilians out of this activity, even though we really need their experience. Civilians need to be able to cooperate well with the authorities and the authorities and civilians. We can also provide very good examples of this at national level. My fellow harvester said that a unit should be set up that will be responsible for animal protection. Well, every local government has a notary who does the animal protection authority's job. So this is well written, which, of course, we will review. However, I think it is important that we talk about these things, and it is also important that we are aware of these facts. Like I said, there are a lot of things we're trying to move forward with. With the support of gazdi jogsi.hu, the Animal Protection Code, civilians, we have made a lot of progress that you have all talked about. I am also pleased that you have mentioned these. Once again, I would like to thank civil society organisations for their help, not only because they are overachieving us every day, but also because they provide us with good advice. I would also like to thank Ági Pompár, Edina, Kinga, Kriszta and Szilvin Fetter for coming to this day and listening to our debate, which may not have been a debate in such a way that animal protection is a common concern. I ask you, too, that we try to do things with a change that you have said many times, which is feasible and enforceable, and not just to express utopian thoughts. And let's ask civil society organisations where we are today and where we need to go step by step. That's why we have the National Veterinary Council, which is why we have the Animal Protection Centre, and that's why civil society organisations have a professional forum so that they can tell us what is needed. I would like to warn my fellow Members that we politicians are making up what animal protection needs. We must listen to them and publish them step by step in the form of legislative proposals, government regulations and government measures. Success will be common if we take these steps. And one more thing: you told me and I told you at the beginning how important it is to draw attention to responsible livestock farming. This is how gazdi jogsi.hu started, and my colleagues started it at the time so that animal protection can be seen in the kindergarten and school environment. I am very pleased that we consider these matters to be a joint matter. I'm asking you to do the same, and I'm asking you to support the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the Earth Observation Information System and, in this context, on the bill to amend certain laws until closure. The government referral is T/17430. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today's growth strategies are clearly based on digitalisation and innovative methods, one of the key elements of which is understanding the current Earth surface information. Sustainable development in the globalised world, for which satellite data provides an essential source of information, is becoming increasingly important in the development of medium- and long-term strategies. Hungary is also a beneficiary of satellite Earth observation capabilities as a full member of the European Space Agency. In the view of the government, it must be a fundamental requirement in our country that earth observation data not only be available to researchers, but also provide useful information for government, business and the general public in a processed and easier way. A land observation information system based on satellite remote-sensed recordings will be implemented as a domestic tool, and I will refer to this as the FIR. The aim of the FIRM is therefore not only to provide the public administration's key professional background institutions, but also the small and large participants in the economy, as well as citizens with relevant, detailed, accessible and up-to-date earth observation data. By achieving the main objective, a land monitoring information system can be implemented that will provide freely accessible and commercial earth observation data services, operating on the central infrastructure and within an e-management framework, in a uniform and integrated way, as value-added data. In order to achieve this, the legislative proposal before us creates the necessary legal background for the main objective as an inseparable basis by defining standardisation and process regulation tasks. [[12.50]] Dear House, The primary legal background of the FIRM is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Copernicus programme, while its data are provided by European Union-funded recordings provided by the Copernicus programme's satellites in the operation and development of the European Space Agency. The European Union is committed to monitoring a number of environmental, climate protection and agricultural processes with information provided by these satellites. The authorities involved in the programme, including those coordinating the payment of forest, water, disaster management or agricultural subsidies, shall have access to continuously updated data produced by satellites and processed by the FIRM, which may be used as evidence in their official procedures. However, it should be pointed out that the FIRM is an open system, so that special processing of available data can be made available to other authorities. In addition, the FIRM's IT system allows natural persons, i.e. the public, free of charge access to pre-processed data and assists in the acquisition of commercial space by organisations that are subject to the Public Procurement Act. Dear House, The government's aim is to make the data provided by Sentinel satellites available in the Copernicus programme publicly available and published in Hungary by creating a mirrored website. Although the recordings of the Sentinel satellite families are available free of charge on the organisation's own surface, the access is limited in view of the size of the data. The limited download option covers both the quantity available and the availability of the recordings, so these data are also limited in time. Currently, the European Space Agency only makes its space recordings available to anyone for nine months, the acquisition of an earlier date is circumstantial or impossible. For this reason, the advantages of the FIR include, among other things, the fact that, regardless of the time limit of the service of the European Space Agency, remote-sensed recordings are stored on the Hungarian platform, which are archived and provided in the ascending system. On the basis of the bill, it will be possible to transmit data of the Copernicus programme made available by the European Space Agency to national users in a processed form through the FIRM. The system thus removes the most resource- and knowledge-intensive processes from the shoulders of users, who are already able to obtain basic or thematic information directly suitable for use. Since the processed recording appears in the system a few hours after the recording is completed, a rapid response to a possible crisis, such as flooding, inland water, forest fire or drought damage, can be developed on the basis of the FIR. The practical use of the FIRM will be achieved in a number of procedures, as it will increase transparency in them through up-to-date information. The data obtained from the system can be used, inter alia, in the field of crop production, in the estimation of yields and in the control of legitimate land use and integration, and this system can also be an essential tool for preparing for the challenges of climate change, by which changes to natural systems can be analysed at regional level. It should also be noted that payment of area payments is expected to be linked to the information on the European Space Agency's satellite images. The system will also be able to meet this requirement. Dear Parliament, Overall, therefore, the system develops a complex analytical capacity for our country beyond the provision of data. The Government of Hungary also complies with the legal harmonisation obligation with the bill, in addition to simplifying the administrative procedures further and broadening the possibilities of satellite monitoring and the availability of data that can be obtained from it. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the strategic objectives of the European Union and the European Space Agency, Hungary has set up a space remote control data centre in Hungary, which ensures, on the one hand, the development of certain government space remote control parachutes and, on the other hand, the achievement and processing of the Copernicus programme's earth observation data and the transmission of processed data to national users in the form of services. Hungary, through its membership in the EU, is part of the global satellite network that Europe is developing within the framework of the Copernicus programme. The main aim of the project is to establish a comprehensive central government system that provides the public administration, the administrative systems in the competition sector and detailed, easily accessible and up-to-date earth observation data for the entire Hungarian society. The programme allows for ground observation raw data, the processing of which is already the responsibility of the Member States. In achieving the main objective, an Earth observation information project will be implemented that operates as a value-enhancing information service on the central infrastructure developed in the integrated system, providing land monitoring services to society, the economy and the public administration's key background institutions in line with the data requirements. In addition to the main objectives, a number of secondary objectives are defined, such as the development of administrative monitoring services, the creation of a land monitoring data centre, the establishment of a ground monitoring operational centre, the development of a national operational monitoring system, the provision of Copernicus data access in Hungary, the provision of legal harmonisation. The scope of the Act covers the operation, maintenance and development of the Earth observation information system and the operation and maintenance of the Earth observation operational centre. In particular, the Earth observation information system provides a new database for agriculture, forestry, defence, water, disaster management and administrative authorities that allows the long-term use of space remote control data and earth observation data. Earth observation data is of particular importance to the national economy in a number of areas, since the online availability of up-to-date space recordings allows us to monitor the state of our planet, the built environment, natural processes and crisis situations. The aim is to improve the quality of public services that make the procedure of public institutions more effective. Space remote sensing data that forms the basis of the Earth observation information system database comes from Sentinel satellites. The raw data supplied by the European Space Agency on Sentinel satellites is automatically generated by IT, and will be used as evidence in the official process. [[13.00]] It is important to note that the capacity of the system and raw data obtained can be expanded by minimal improvement so that other authorities can use it for their procedures. The collection and processing of space remote sensing data is a state task. Therefore, the bill sets out the instruments and institutional frameworks needed to carry out the public tasks. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has been said above, I am in favour of this law because the Earth observation information system will be suitable for detecting forest fires, floods, flooding, as well as for the analysis of vegetation, the surface cover and the movement of the earth's surface. The scheme will be able to support an agricultural risk analysis system, operate a grass information system and control area payments. In addition to the creation of infrastructure, it also supports the digital economy, increasing the scope of public digital services. In addition, the land monitoring information system will support the following official procedures at the start: spatial detachment of wood and forest use; removal of forest from the cultivation branch; removal of forest in other land use categories, removal of forest stocks; forest and wooding, registration of free-range forest; authorisation procedure for aerial remote control; supervision of the use of remote control data; introduction of changes related to the control of remote control of area payments; production of crop maps; technical monitoring of priority aquatic facilities. In the spirit of these thoughts, I thank my fellow Members with respect for their attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us sets out the legislative framework for the Earth Observation Information System and related bodies. I think that this legislation, as has been said in the expozee, can be agreed, and yes, the task that this FIR, as you have said, will be important in the coming time. Yes, it is important for us to join space programmes that help us to observe developments in the country, and it is particularly important in this regard that we consolidate and draw conclusions from these coming data together in order to assist disaster management, defence and forestry tasks. I see that in recent years, the government has opened the gates more and more in terms of space activity, and I could put it that way, and in recent years it has spent billions of forints on space exploration and space activity. Obviously, I am aware that this bill before us ensures the digitisation of the data of the satellite program and the Sentinel satellite network in Hungary and easier access, but I apologize if I raised a proposal or a question that in 2019 and 2020 the government spent more than HUF 8 billion on space activity and space exploration when it would have been a better place for this amount in Hungary during the Covid-19 pandemic. I would be very curious, by the way, and I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much this country will cost, both the Earth observation information system and this Earth observation operational centre. I do not think that we can go beyond the fact that there are nearly three million people living in Hungary today under the minimum living age, so when introducing such a new innovative tool... with which, once again, I can agree if the date of its introduction is current. I see that if this is also a billion-dollar item, because obviously, despite our membership in the European Union, we could say that it is possible to use this satellite programme, data and digitisation to help with the activities and administrative procedures that you have listed, but there is always a risk that we will enter this system at an inappropriate time. So once again, I would like to say that we can, of course, support the establishment of this centre and the system in the event that its costs and budgetary implications are not so high, which I think is, in today's emergency budget, and we see that you are talking about a total crisis, an economic crisis... it is not certain that this is the time. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what was said by Secretary of State Azbej Tristan and what my fellow Member János Pócs has already said, but it is important to stress that the aim of the bill is to ensure the legal framework of the project Earth observation information system, earth observation data infrastructure and data reporting. The FIRM is a comprehensive central government system that provides public administration, administrative systems, the private sphere and the entire Hungarian society with relevant, detailed, accessible and up-to-date earth observation data. The primary legal background of the FIRM is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 establishing the Copernicus programme. In 2005, the European Union made a strategic decision to develop, together with the European Space Agency, its independent Earth observation capacity for the provision of environmental and security services in Europe. The Copernicus programme, thus established, is based on a partnership between the European Union, ESA and the Member States, which should build on appropriate European and national capacities and be complemented by jointly developed new instruments. In line with the EU system, the FIS will provide a new database for agriculture, forestry, defence, water and disaster management and administrative authorities, which will allow the long-term use of space remote sensing data and earth observation data. At the start of the FIRM, it will support, inter alia, the following official procedures: spatial separation of wood and forest uses, removal from the forest sector, entry into forest and other land use categories and elimination of timber stocks; the declaration of forest, wooding as a free forest; the procedure for the authorisation of aerial remote sensing; the supervision of the use of remote sensing data, the conduct of changes related to the remote sensing control of area payments; the production of crop maps; the technical monitoring of priority aquatic installations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. We consider it important that new technologies that are available can now be observed from space, changes can also be registered, and debates that provide evidence in civil law that is appropriate for either possession disputes or over-building disputes. I believe that this will also strengthen the rule of law in Hungary. Again, please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2021-11-10-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not want to jest my speech here at the beginning, because we are talking about a very serious matter, but it may be interesting for the superficial student to have a presentation in the National Assembly when the word observation is said at least 50 times in the general debate, and yet there is no intense political debate between the parties. Obviously, this word, "observation," can be a bit of a bad context for citizens, but there are two ways to approach this proposal. One is ultimately the objective of harmonisation. So, if I simplify it, what usually happens in a technical sense before the Parliament is that any proposal for harmonisation of EU law does not usually have very big debates in the Parliament. It is very rare to have big debates. Here too, as has been said before, a kind of follow-up to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Copernicus programme in the legal system is, in fact, the establishment of this earth observation information system, which has been mentioned before me. So, in a legal sense, we might as well settle this proposal. In terms of content, however, it is very complex, and I think it can be very forward-looking if we can use it for the benefit of citizens in the future, because, in addition to space exploration, there is a great deal of information that can be obtained in terms of disaster protection, whether in terms of real estate records or in terms of many official matters, or in the interests of agriculture, which will show in real time a very accurate picture of what is on the Earth, on the surface of the Earth, and how, for example, Hungarian citizens or companies use the territory of the country, in particular, how and in what way. This must be done in such a way that, of course, this is included in the proposal, so that it does not harm the national security and defence interests of our country. I'd like to make two points here about the proposal. Perhaps the first one is not related to the direct text, but to the later ones, although the second one is in the end. Firstly, the fact that we will have an increasingly accurate picture of the real situation in Hungary, for example in terms of agriculture, is often different from the traditional records that can be seen in such serious systems. The fact that there is a difference may also be, say, an abuse, so there may be an area where there should be a forest, but for some reason there is no, because there has been an abuse or a crime, I might say, a nature damage. In these cases, the information thus obtained must obviously be decisive to the authorities. For the record, of course, there are already systems that help the authorities in these matters. So there could be an advantage like that. But of course, the fact that traditional registers differ, where appropriate, from such a very important, really satellite image may sometimes be a bona fide problem due to land use problems. In these cases, it is obviously necessary to be fair at a later stage if these systems continue to evolve and transform our world. So to move from traditional registers to such directions, I think we need extreme fairness for ordinary users, ordinary citizens, because our world is changing. The other question that you have asked before me, Mrs President, but it is absolutely right in such a budgetary situation, is, unfortunately, a very high number of diseases today, which we have seen in the morning hours of the data on the Covid epidemic, and we do not know exactly what health and economic effects this will have for the coming months. Therefore, in order to support such a proposal by the opposition, it is necessary, on the one hand, to have some sort of reassuring data protection statements on the part of the Secretary of State in this respect and, on the other hand, to have some statements on the budget. So if you could tell me exactly what kind of budgetary resources this whole thing means, this FIR, let's say, in terms of the next budget year, I think you might be able to reassure the opposition representatives, and if there is nothing to see here, we may be able to vote on it together, but we should be careful in this regard. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As the leader of a Green Party Group, I am obviously very pleased that he started his speech by mentioning sustainability, that this bill, this amendment of the law, could lead us in a direction where sustainability aspects can be better enforced. Obviously, we are convinced that this would require a government that applies these aspects not only at the level of speech but also in its policy, and that this can essentially be achieved through a change of government. But obviously, in the context of the fact that during the short six months until next year's parliamentary elections come, let us talk about these policy issues, that is positive. I consider it justified to raise the issue of my fellow opposition Members, and here the space programme was discussed mainly by the leaders of the pro-government factions, and based on the fact that, over the last 11 years, the provision of basic public services, the operation of the public utility network, one of the transport reform or the maintenance of rural roads was a challenge to the government led by Viktor Orbán, which they could not cope with, so to speak, we are a little sceptical about the announcements of the Trabant space programme and of the new astronaut, so it should be clarified how far the government's ambitions in this respect extend, what budgetary resources are being managed. And obviously, we cannot support announcements or such directions that fit such science fiction, but we cannot support any procedures, any changes in legislation that relate to different European cooperation and to such activities, which otherwise involve the processing and use of satellite information, of course we can. And I am not surprised that my fellow Member mentioned that surveillance in Hungary today is very strange and, let me say, has an extra meaning, and I think that it is no coincidence that the Hungarian people will be a little intimidated when they hear the word observation, especially in these weeks and months, when we can see that we suspect serious abuses, then Lajos Kósa's fit of honesty, or, I do not know, by his speech, we can go further in terms of information, what the government has actually done. Obviously, after a change of government, we will see in its depth exactly what kind of observations and abuses the government had on its part, but I think that in the subject of this bill, the word "observation" could be regarded as positive. Obviously, it is very, very important what this basically legislative proposal for harmonisation also means, and it is absolutely necessary that we use this information, the information that can be obtained through the satellite, in these important areas and in those areas that are also listed by the Secretary of State. I sense a tiny incoherence here because there are other technologies that can help us carry out these tasks, such as drone technology, which is experiencing a very serious explosion. There are very, very many places where drones spread, available-price devices are available to access very, very high-quality recordings, and the government seems to be trying to pursue their use by fire and iron, and it is so unwarranted administrative burdens and it is quite amazing to be stylish that it employs threats of punishment, as if it were to pursue new technologies, which, by the way, could be positive in the important areas you have listed here. So we're sensing a contradiction here, but then we're confident that the use of satellite-related or satellite-based information is not intended to be pursued in this way. Indeed, it is an extremely important opportunity for forest management and forest protection, and it is obviously positive, to support the use of these data, but then again the question arises as to why the government does not join the various international conventions and commitments to protect forests. [[13.20]] I think it would be positive in a circle if the government not only considered this to be important for obtaining information, but also wanted to translate it into action. We have already talked about climate change, sustainability issues. Indeed, we are facing quite amazing challenges here, and we know that we are increasingly experiencing extreme weather conditions in the context of climate change. We need to override previous standards and standards, see how often different clouds, lightning floods, extreme circumstances about which we have a fundamental interest in defence. It is necessary to provide information, knowledge and funding not only to the various administrations, but also to the municipalities, so that protection can be carried out, and so, obviously, we also need these satellite data in order to monitor the river basins and to assess the state of important water infrastructure in this context, to protect them and to assist in planning tasks related to them. It is important that the municipalities receive the appropriate resources for the various construction works and that these essential satellite data are already available for careful planning; obviously also for the profession and for the various private organizations who prepare these plans, as this way it can meet the increasingly serious environmental challenges and protect the interests of the Hungarian people and, of course, their safety. Similarly, sustainability and environmental protection are strengthened by the fact that satellite monitoring can help to combat the proliferation of illegal landfills. It is also possible to obtain information, where appropriate, to which information is otherwise required, especially by the fact that the use of drones cannot be obtained, and then it cannot, let us say, make a serious mistake, such as that made in Tamási, that it is apparent that thousands of cubic metres of plastic waste from Italy were allowed to accumulate in an area within the city, even though, if they had acted a little more prudently, they would have seen that this would, in any case, endanger the nearby watercourse, or that it could not have been permitted to do so at just 150 metres from the family homes. It can also be effective against other forms of environmental destruction to intercept satellite surveillance, such as illegal mining activities. In this regard, I have made several announcements over the past year and a half; one of them is a rather scandalous case, in which Baranya County's mining captain, thus simplifying, has already failed. Other ways of getting information here are that illegal mining activities are taking place. I think that if we get this kind of satellite information, there will be no debate, and I am quite sure that the authorities will be able to act more effectively. It has also been mentioned by my fellow Members that it is a huge challenge to settle various land registers. There are very, very many debates about the various problems that land registers often do not coincide with reality. I think that in this area, too, it is positive and not only positive, but it is essential that we use this information. So, overall, I can say that what is here in the law is basically a positive direction, and we are very, very confident that in this area at least, let's say, unlike drone regulation or other surveillance anomalies, the government is guided by good intentions. In this context, we are obviously positive about the proposal that it considers it important not only to gather information but also to take action in relation to these problems. That is why we say that, taking these important aspects into account and in order to achieve these important goals, it will be the change of government that represents a real, meaningful change. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur and author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I listened with joy and thanks to the speeches by the lead speaker. I think it is right to say that there is, in principle, agreement on the purpose of the bill and that the establishment of an Earth observation information system is not only necessary, but also has a number of advantages in the areas of life, public administration and nature conservation and the economy. I also thank you for the constructive contributions and I will try to give you the fullest possible answer on the issues that have been raised. First of all, the emergence of the word "observation" was mentioned as a semi-funny remark in the Earth observation system, behind humor and light-hearted exchange of ideas there may have been a bit of a malicious assumption. In this regard, I would like to say that the data included in the database are not in any way covered by the GDPR. In a more practical way, we are talking about data with a resolution of 10 metres, which are simply not affected by such resolution, are not suitable for direct access to the data of natural persons, and even the development of the system and the publication of the database strengthens the freedom of data, as natural persons can also browse these data, and it is also free of charge. With regard to the question raised in relation to the derogation from other registers, I would like to say that the data will serve as an official means of proof, this database and a given authority will decide what they will accept: data from another register or data from the FIR, the Earth Observation Information System. In general, these data are of a type and nature that, in the vast majority of cases, alternative data will not be available for other authorities when deciding on a given procedure. Several people have asked the opposition benches in different terms how much the government plans to spend on this system, and this is worth it in spite of the challenges facing Hungary and the Hungarian people. In this context, I can give a concrete answer to a specific question: the development of the system in the framework of the KÖFOP and its financing cost HUF 7.35 billion. Now this can start a question that is worth it to the Hungarian people, Hungary. We firmly believe that, yes, this is a profitable investment. As a few hints, I would like to ask the congresswoman, the Members, how much a flood, an accurate forecast of inland water, is worth to this country; how much is the detection of illegal logging worth to this country; what is the value of monitoring the status of priority waterworks, preventing disasters and saving lives? But these are just a little more abstract questions. Without any kind of economic or agricultural science, it can surely be said that this digitalisation form, this data availability alone in the agricultural sector, can repeatedly bring to Hungarian farmers the source that the government invests within the framework of KÖFOP. The Copernicus programme generated some EUR 445 million in revenue for the Member States of the European Union by 2020, and we want Hungary to benefit from this revenue as much as possible, but we need to build our own monitoring reporting system. This system also has an extremely high hardware demand and requires the development of new software solutions. Therefore, prior to the design of field artifacts, only land observation data makes it possible to assess and estimate with high precision the costs of land design, technical and cost impacts on biomass, surface vegetation, land conversion, and thus to achieve extraordinary cost savings for such programmes. [[13.30]] I would also like to mention that the system for payment of agricultural subsidies and compensation allowances is already largely based on space and that the European Union expects Member States to monitor the achievement of the objectives by means of remote sensing. With limited time and data available through the European Agency's system, this is not appropriate, effective or cost-effective. With a uniform assessment of the data covering the large areas of the country, the FIR can provide, for example, homogeneous information for the water area in case of national inland water or flooding. And I'm not going to continue this line by preventing various damage events, and I hope I've been able to give you a full answer to the questions. Thank you for your attention and for continuing to support the bill.
u2021-11-10-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of submitting amendments by 4 p.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Dear House, It follows a general debate on the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on Real Estate Recording and amending certain laws relating to real estate registers, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural subjects until closure. The government referral is T/17443. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government's primary objective is to reduce the administrative burden related to public administration and to provide citizens with the IT background necessary for predictable, reliable electronic administration, which is also served by the provisions of the new Real Estate Registration Act, which was already adopted by Parliament as Act C of 2021. However, given that the current Real Estate Registration Act and the new Inytv. certain substantive and procedural provisions differ considerably, it is necessary to provide that the new Inytv is to be established under the current Real Estate Registration Act. the procedures in place at the time of entry into force of this Regulation shall be implemented by applying which rules. It is also necessary to ensure consistency between sectoral legislation and the new Real Estate Registration Act. At the same time, it is important to stress that the bill before us would also introduce significant changes in the management of authentic instruments, in the legal activity related to the real estate register and in building and spatial planning issues. The link between these areas is the introduction of practical facilitations to respond to innovation-driven societal needs. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to explain in more detail some of these changes. Considering it's the new Inytv. In the case of real estate registration, not all lawyers are allowed to carry out legal activities and the right to procedural proceedings in the real estate registration case becomes subject to specific conditions, therefore, the legal requirements of some of the legal orders have been laid down in the bill. If the lawyer or law firm does not have at least one entitled member or employee, it shall not take the contract. In addition, the bill clarifies that only lawyers, employed lawyers and chamber counsels with registered rights in public law firms can carry out activities related to the registration of real estate. In addition, the amendment of the Law of Law provides for additional liability insurance for the acquisition and maintenance of entitlement in order to deal with increased liability and risks due to the specific features of the electronic property registration procedure, such as the possibility of automatic decision-making. In line with the higher level of liability linked to procedural eligibility, the amendment defines the prohibition of real estate registration cases as a new disciplinary penalty. I would like to inform the Parliament that we have, of course, discussed every step of the amendments outlined with the Hungarian Bar Association. In addition, in the area of real estate registration rules, it should be pointed out that the innovation which excludes the making of certain legal declarations relating to the transformation, merger and division of legal persons and that the transfers are taken over by the court of business from legal persons, thus ensuring that the relevant data are displayed without disruption in the real estate register. This will help to relieve the burden and overcome administrative obstacles, in line with the government's objectives. Mr President, Dear House, As I have already indicated, the provisions in the bill before us have an impact on the use of various bodies and databases, ensuring that they are more professional and practical in their management, which will make the daily lives of citizens easier. In this context, it is necessary to address the issue of proper handling of public documents arising from the operation of public service bodies. Some of the authentic instruments are not only of administrative value but also of lasting value and thus part of our national cultural heritage. However, experience gained in the control of archives and public bodies has shown that the handling and maintenance of public documents often does not comply with the legal requirements. The bill therefore includes an amendment to the Act of Archives, under which the Hungarian National Archives is given authority, so that it can take measures to remain as a national archival authority in the event of any deficiencies in the bodies performing public tasks. The amendment of the Archives Act also follows the regulatory needs that have arisen in practice, thus, in addition to the competence of public archives, it aims at clarifying and supplementing the rules on the tasks they perform. In addition, the bill lays down the rules of the official procedure for the protection of authentic instruments and facilitates the effective handling of documents by making a digital copy for use. In addition, the bill before this House also refers to the concept of the archives of the local government and clarifies the regulation on the keeping of the archives of the public archives which have ceased to exist. In conclusion, in relation to this part of the bill, it can be said that the proposal was drawn up with the broad involvement of professional archival organisations, specifically on the basis of the professional aspects of document management and archives. The adoption of proposals to amend the Archives Act will facilitate the preservation and recognition of documents of lasting value which form part of the national cultural heritage. Dear Parliament, In addition to keeping pace with technological progress, this bill also intends to respond to social expectations in order to enhance the protection of natural resources and cultural values. The provisions of the bill amending the laws on construction, spatial planning and cultural heritage protection are forward-looking and provide for the preservation and rational use of one of Hungary's national treasures, a good quality agricultural land, taking into account the criteria of renewable energy production. That is why the bill provides that a spatial planning authority permit for the installation of solar power plants can only be issued if it involves the use of as little land as possible. Only small power plants of household size can be set up in arable areas with an excellent location. It's a healthy balance according to our approach. [[13.40]] With more emphasis on water retention, it is also a principle that the collection and retention of precipitation water is a priority compared to the rapid discharge. Also the new rule relating to the development of settlements is that people and professionals with natural sciences, economics and sociology must be involved in the design of development plans in order to create a vision for settlements that better fits the requirements of our time. Monument protection requirement is the maintenance of castle parks, church real estate ensembles, industrial building ensembles in their physical reality and as a unit. Therefore, the bill states that the sharing of land according to the location of such monuments should be avoided and that protected values should be maintained when establishing land boundaries. With regard to the amendment of the Law on Construction, I should mention one provision strengthening legal certainty: in settlements where there is no local construction code or no specific questions, construction activities can be carried out if the building fits in with its surroundings. However, settlement settlement matching requirements do not appear in law, and their adoption is not accompanied by procedural guarantees. In order to exclude subjective elements related to the construction activity, it is therefore stated that the municipalities must include the installation rules in a regulation and also specify the purpose of the building in each construction zone. Mr President, Dear House, This bill establishes new regulatory bases for the electronicisation and modernisation of the real estate register under the operational programme for public administration and public service development. The purpose of the proposal is therefore the new Inytv. laying down transitional rules relating to its entry into force, establishing legal certainty and introducing innovations that prove necessary by technical progress. In addition to the above, the bill will strengthen the protection of authentic instruments and simplify the interpretation of certain procedures and rules of competence, as well as propose the updating of laws relating to spatial planning, settlement planning and the protection of cultural heritage. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-61	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table can be divided into several larger units. One of these is the amendment of legislation required by Act C of 2021 adopted by Parliament. The Act on Real Estate Registration also includes the electronicisation of real estate registers and the creation of the necessary legal environment. However, the provisions of Law C of 2021 to ensure the functioning of the electronic real estate register will not enter into force until 1 February 2023. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the 1997 CXLI on the real estate register is in place. the procedures under law and pending at the time of the entry into force of the new Real Estate Registration Act are to be conducted according to which rules. On this basis, existing procedures should, as a general rule, be conducted in accordance with the legislative provisions in force at the start of the procedure. The Act also lays down the exceptions to the proceedings pending at the time of the entry into force of the Real Estate Register Act, when it provides that, in the repeated proceedings, the Law on the Real Estate Registration Act I and II. The provisions of Part II of the Directive shall apply, once they have entered into force, to the acts of real estate authorities. In addition, the procedures in place on 1 February 2023 and falling within the competence of several metropolitan and county government offices prior to 1 February 2023 shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of competence in force on 1 February 2023. Legislative amendments to a number of sectors concerned will also be justified by the fact that the new Real Estate Registration Act uses different concepts. For example, after the entry into force of the new provisions, the registration of the law will cease. Recording the fact by distinguishing the transfer of data will be a single concept of registration, whether it is a law or a fact or a data. Dear House, The amendment of the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment facilitates the effective preparation and effective application of new settlement plans. It is necessary to avoid the establishment rules being defined as settlement integration requirements instead of being included in local construction regulations and to repeal their municipal regulations for this purpose. In fact, settlement settlement integration requirements do not appear in law, there are no procedural guarantees attached to their adoption, and the role of state administrations entitled to comment on planning is not taken into account. Overall, the settlement arrangement requirement is an auxiliary tool for the period when there is no local construction code. In view of the fact that the requirement concerns the task of the municipalities, it is therefore essential to regulate at the statutory level. The amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage extends the obligation to notify a trader of the commercial transfer of protected cultural goods. As a result, the trader is obliged to notify cultural goods declared protected for commercial sale even if the sale fails if no transfer is made. Pursuant to that provision, the owner or holder of the cultural goods declared protected must give his/her identity to the trader who has received the goods for sale, having regard to the fact that, in the case of cultural goods received for that purpose, declared as protected, the trader is subject to a notification obligation to the authority. Ladies and gentlemen, Public archives currently have extensive control rights in respect of the preservation of the public documents of bodies with a public service mission in their respective jurisdictions. At the same time, it is appropriate to establish an official procedure for the protection of public documents in order to effectively address the circumstances which seriously threaten their preservation. To this end, the official function of the Hungarian National Archives will be extended by the establishment of an official procedure for the protection of public documents. With regard to the legislation on archives, I would like to mention that the archive material containing personal data becomes available to anyone after 30 years of protection after the death of the data subject. By contrast, the law states that, in view of the high interest in society, during the First World War and the Second World Wars, for whom the term of protection is five years from the date of their death. [[13.50]] In the case of participants in the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, it seems equally appropriate to facilitate the conditions of knowledge and to apply the five-year term of protection, which will allow for a large amount of documents to be made available on the Internet to help raise awareness of the events of this period. In addition, I think it is important to stress that the digitisation of the archive material does not only simplify their knowledge, but also makes it available to people who would not otherwise have visited the archives. It will therefore serve public education purposes and will also be available for public education. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal before us concerns a number of regulatory issues, while adapting all amendments to the changing technical and legal environment also provides socially important objectives such as ensuring protection in public documents and raising the protection of cultural heritage to an even higher level. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we see legislation appearing on Parliament's website, what we are going to discuss, I am always pleased when the legislation on spatial planning and urban development is being debated, what they have invented again and where they are headed. This is very, very important, the interests of the country should be identified for everyone, so that, yes, the planning of settlements and settlements take a direction that is appropriate for everyone. This, when I open the law to see what changes are going to happen, is not what we expected. I would have expected, let's say, the eloquent government decree, under which local construction regulations are overwritten, to make some reference. Obviously, I know that this is a government decree, and you will be able to repeal it, but how good it would be for the municipalities to retain the privilege of deciding what is being built in that settlement. And how nice it would be if you didn't define that when an investor, a buddy, an oligarch, came along to look for an area, and then, as he pleases, he would be given permissions beyond the heights of the local construction regulations or at a lower rate than the use of green land. Well, it doesn't appear in this legislation. It's a salad law that amends nearly 50 laws. For us opposition representatives, when we open these laws, the question is right away, what is hidden in this, where is the loophole that is opened again for itself, and what is really the purpose of this legislation. Then, in view of the legislation, it can be seen that most of the amendments are replacing a verb: they no longer record the data, but register the data in the real estate register. This is being passed through a number of laws. But there is much more to be done in relation to real estate registers, and, yes, it should now be possible for all social needs to be defined in the legislation, and not just to focus on one step as much as you like. I would just like to mention a few examples, which, in recent times, not only with us opposition representatives, but also with the local population, have knocked out a certain guarantee. One: In Balatonvilágos, the Club Aliga was decided to overwrite the local construction rules. Then, if we go to Tihany, there is a similar problem and opportunity where there is a municipal property that has been sold, and then suddenly, thanks to you, virtually anything can be built there. Or, let's say, Szentendre, where they want to build residential parks. These are all investments, which... also exist in this legislation, which are socialisation and broad interest reconciliations. Well, where exactly are these reconciliations going? Because you don't inform these citizens. We see that, whether on the shore of Lake Balaton or anywhere in the country, which is now frequented and attractive to young people and families, there are countless residential park investments, and then we should examine whether the public utility system has been able to bear this larger investment and the additional burden there. This is urban development and spatial planning, which is what you should be dealing with, because you obviously like to sweep under the carpet. What we see is that there are works in the country that are in the interest of a certain circle, and we, I think, should ask as a minimum, and we will ask why this is necessary. And why are these investments allowed? Of course, I am obviously also making a few thoughts and more awareness of the legislation: there is a small amendment to condominiums, which, I think, is an important amendment if they are modified. So far, it had to be submitted to the real estate authority without a time limit, which is now determined in 15 days. I think that these 15 days are extremely few, it is not understandable to me that the community of condominiums is obliged to submit these data or documents, so that it will be able to do so without a time limit. It might be more appropriate to determine 30 days instead of 15 days. Or, for example, what is not clear to me is that in the case of the built and natural environment that is part of the World Heritage, we have so far had the actors who can be members of the body who can decide what to do later, so it is a preparatory and proposing body. You guys have basically pulled off this list, and now we don't know who's gonna decide what's gonna be part of the world heritage. I think it's one of those things where I just don't see the point, or I'm thinking again that everybody knows everything now. So what was wrong with being members of UNESCO and other organizations? Why should this be taken out of this legislation? I would like to say one more thing, which, in turn, I value as a positive thing: the deadline for the preparation of settlement development concepts has been pushed from June 30, 22 to December 31, and so the municipalities have a little more opportunity to create and create this concept. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would add that now practically every local government should employ a specialist who prepares these, because you constantly, practically every one or two years, always have a new idea, which requires the creation of new urban planning instruments, or even an integrated urban development strategy or any development document, and the municipalities do virtually nothing else but deal with it. This is right and good, of course, if it really serves the interests of the settlement and the interests of the inhabitants of the settlement, but when there is a legislative amendment to run through the system to modify the entire settlement instrument, it results in serious budget lines. It is enough to refer only back to the creation of the municipal image manual, which has also caused problems for each settlement. [[14.00]] Of course, you have obviously added a source, and I do not deny it, but understand that the invitation to change in the continuous settlement instrument is not only a professional but also a budgetary burden for municipalities. (In the notary seat Dr. András Aradski Replaced by László Földi.) I think that this draft legislation, which is now before this House, is a summary of the transfer through the real estate registration system and contains no substantive amendments. Much more changes would be needed. That's what I would have expected. Unfortunately, we couldn't have read it in this one. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-10-65	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/17443 on transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register and amending certain laws relating to real estate registers, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural subjects. Bill No.1, as you said in Secretary of State Azbei Tristan's exposé, amends 48 laws in total. These amendments are coherent. Ladies and Gentlemen, After the State Secretary's Expo, it is important to point out that there has been an increased need recently to carry out a spatial planning procedure for the installation of solar power plants and for the integration of a specific building of regional importance into a county spatial planning plan, if the power plant to be implemented was not included in the spatial planning plan. During the spatial planning procedure, it is appropriate to examine the issue of the quality protection of agricultural land as a specific issue, which, unfortunately, has been often lacking in the light of the experience so far. The annual LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. The amendment of the Act facilitates the efficient preparation and effective application of new settlement plans. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. In addition, the amendment of the Act extends the obligation to notify the trader of the commercial transfer of protected cultural goods. As a result, the trader is obliged to notify the cultural goods which have been declared protected for commercial sale even if the sale is ultimately unsuccessful and no transfer takes place. In order to ensure consistency with the rules on land design procedures, it is necessary to lay down new principles to be followed in the development of land. Monument protection requirement is the physical reality of castle parks, church real estate ensembles, industrial ensembles, folk or other building ensembles and the maintenance of one plot in a way that facilitates the validation of the combined elements. This was formulated when it was a monument protection building, that the monument protection building belongs to an estate, and that one estate is also protected. The 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. The amendment of the Act is due to the fact that, with the termination of the World Heritage Committee, a new Proposer, Opinion and Preparation of Decisions on World Heritage Heritage will be set up as of January 2022. CXXXIX of 2018 on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority areas. Amendment to Act 3: the production of alternative energy, in particular the placement of solar power plants, entails significant land grabbing. In response to the anomalies in the land grabbing of ever-growing solar power plants, as I said in my introduction, it is necessary at national level to limit plantation to the protection of land of high quality, as well as ecologically valuable areas. The Trtv. This is what the amendment proposed, and the changes in the settlement settlement arrangements made it necessary to clarify certain provisions by July 2021. The amendments and additions to Ltv concern the concept of archival competence, the competence of certain archives, the provisions relating to the placement of the public archives that cease to exist. The issue of public library competence creates a uniform use of terms and uniform representation of existing but fragmented tasks within the scope of public archives competence, thereby facilitating the application of the law. The competent archives shall be entitled and obliged to receive the permanent documents of the bodies under their jurisdiction, to verify the handling of the documents of the body performing the public service, to approve the scrappings, to approve the body's file management regulations, to determine the scope of the documents of lasting value. The annual LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. The Ministry of Human Resources prepared the amendment of the Act with the involvement of the Archives College and the Archives' professional organizations. After extensive social consultation, the proposal was finalised on the basis of the professional aspects of archival and document management and was presented to us. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-66	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-10-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is a very large package of amendments, amending 48 laws. Rather, I refer to the title of the submission; the main direction of this is obviously the amendments related to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register, which are obviously very widely presented here in the previous ones. I do not wish to repeat these necessarily, and I do not want those who follow us to lose interest. I would rather start from the fact that the establishment of the e-property register in the context of the original and original proposal was the primary objective of this proposal, which is a necessary and important objective. That's what I think. If we start from the beginning, from point zero, i.e. from the general debate of the previous law, then I can say that we should ask the rhetorical question, that Hungary has a debt to its citizens, then obviously it has a huge debt. I say more than ten out of the last decades on purpose, so Hungary has several decades of debt in this respect to its citizens. We would like to support all amendments which are only in this direction, which strengthen the nature of the service provider for citizens. I can say this on behalf of our faction, but as I started, 48 laws are being amended by this salad law. And to be fair, I told you this morning that the otherwise understandable package in that form, and why there is a salad law or as a genre, is that, by the way, very closely linked living conditions and legal institutions are designed to amend each other, it may be simplified. Because then it can be discussed at the same time, in its complexity. [[14.10]] In this law, I believe that there are elements that cannot be justified from this point of view, and then I think that I was sophisticated. The majority of the law is directly linked to the adoption of the previous legislation, but, let me say, as a criticism, that this package already amends that law, so it is not only related to its entry into force, but there are sections that amend that legislation. Obviously, I would like to draw attention here to the precise preparation, the legislation must be preceded by impact assessments and appropriate standard drafting, and then this is not necessary. (Gergely Harvesto in the notary seat) Replaced by Bence of Turdai.) In many respects, my colleague Anita Kőrösi highlighted points. I wouldn't repeat that. There are questions that I would like to make critical, and I would say these, and here comes the fact that it is obviously very difficult for the opposition representative to do so in a vote: yes, no, or residence with a calm soul. Therefore, the proposal contains most of the amendments aimed at achieving consistency with the new law, namely Act C of 2021, but also contains a number of amendments, largely in technical detail, which allow for abuse as follows. The amendment to the Act on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives is also included here in the package of proposals. As a result of the amendment which will enter into force on 1 January 2022, the Hungarian National Archives may require any public service body to place its archives or parts thereof with the central service provider established in the separate government decree. The amendment allows MNL to be entitled to the above obligation without prior notice, provided that the preservation of authentic instruments can only be ensured by immediate action. Although it is only possible to place authentic instruments with a central service provider under the law if the body performing the public service mission in question endangers the preservation of authentic instruments, there is no indication of exactly what activity is to be considered as a threat to the preservation of the authentic instrument, and the large volume of the archives does not remedy the threat to the preservation of authentic documents, but, on the contrary, increases the risk of certain documents disappearing or disappearing. On the basis of the above, there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the proposal specifically included the procedure for the protection of authentic instruments in order to allow the government to dispose of certain documents in the following period. Well, in light of the spring elections, it certainly raises questions. However, in order to confirm the initial wording of my introduction, how this is related to and the entry into force of Act C of 2021, obviously this requires a vivid imagination. On the other hand, with regard to the amendment of the World Heritage Act, the amendment would also completely abolish the World Heritage Act as of 1 January 2021. Paragraph 2 and Article 5 the professional control of the tasks set out in Section 3. Because the law would not be mandatory 6. The involvement of the persons indicated in points (a) to (h) of paragraph (a) would therefore consist entirely of persons selected on the basis of subjects not currently known by the Minister. In other words, in the transparent situations that have so far covered world heritage areas in this regard, a body of individuals with subjective elements could decide or participate in decision preparation and opinion. This is certainly not our forward-looking position. The reasons behind this amendment are not yet known, but the removal of transparency from the law gives a basis for the government's minimum questionable plans on the world heritage issue. I think our previous experience here is telling us this, not some kind of advance malice, believe me, Mr. Secretary. So, overall, the number of laws that a salad law amends, the greater the risk that, by the way, other conditions or stages of life will be included, such as the regulation of such laws, which are not intended for the original purpose. I've done it this time. So I think it is very difficult for me to see all of our doubts to be settled, not until the end of the general debate, but let us say, at the parliamentary stage, that might still happen. At the same time, I would like to say that the decades of debt caused by the delay and absence of digitalisation in the area of real estate registration, we, of course, want it to be lifted. We would like to support the decisions and legislative proposals that serve directly in this Parliament, only then will we have the opportunity to support it, not to link it to decisions about stages that are not even relevant in relation to this. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-11-10-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The next announced speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, LMP.
u2021-11-10-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members have given relatively detailed criticism to this bill, and in this case I do not wish to repeat the thoughts that have been formulated. I would basically like to talk about the lack of information and the poor preparation of the bill, which is very, very readable here. We do not see it exactly, nor can we say that we see that there has been a lack of proper social and professional consultation in the preparation of the bill, nor have there been such essential information attached to the proposal that, for example, legal professional organisations, we can think of the Chamber of Lawyers or the National Court of Justice, how they expressed their views in advance on the bill, and the Prime Minister's Office has taken this into account. We do not know how the local government's advocacy organisations or local government associations have been consulted. The operation of the municipalities is very much affected by the draft legislation and the draft amendments, and we do not know in this way whether they have been involved in the negotiations or whether they have been accompanied and taken into account. There has been a number of questions about the protection of monuments, and we also do not see that the actors and professional players in the protection of monuments have given relevant opinions on this, and they have had the opportunity to do so at all. We also do not see that there has been or has been an appropriate impact assessment. The proposal envisages very wide-ranging, extensive changes, and we also do not know whether it has prepared or started at least the preparation by the state, that it will be able to manage significant changes in the electronic property register here, for example, from an IT site, let us say, the state. I think that this should also be mentioned in any case in the presentation. We also have a very, very serious concern here: there is no specific data, information on how secure the IT system will be, so what security solutions will be provided, how the electronic documents will be provided in the future, where appropriate, inviolability and protection against destruction. I believe that a responsible decision in this situation can only be taken by Members of Parliament if they receive detailed information on this. It's canceled. I think that we all understand that the inviolability of these documents is that, in this case, not only the destruction, but also the protection against intervention is essential, very, very serious effects are linked to these electronic registers. And then very, very briefly, some of the points in particular about one or two parts of the bill, which have been referred to by the speakers before me. We also consider it very positive here in relation to the installation of solar panels to limit the installation of these in ecologically valuable areas and in the case of good agricultural land, which is important. We obviously support the creation of solar panels very strongly, but basically we think that we should, say, fill the roof of buildings with these, by no means should solar parks be set up in green fields. But the question here is that this is already a step on the part of the government, so it is a positive step that it has taken this step in ecologically valuable areas and in the case of the ecological network and the ecological corridor. But that the government does not think, for example, that in such areas and, for example, in highly protected nature conservation areas, let us say, that it is not possible to build a nuclear cemetery, because unfortunately that is the case. [[14.20]] At present, the nuclear cemetery is being prepared in a highly protected area, in the West Mecsek area, and there are research drills, and so on. So I think it's not even a little half-sided here, but it's really just this, I don't know, the government's attention to these ecological aspects is sporadic. And then I would like to refer to one more thing, and here I have specific questions. This was the question of the protection of monuments referred to by the lead speaker of both pro-government factions. Mr Pócs said quite precisely that cultural heritage protection should be brought to an even higher level, thus even higher than it is at present. Well, we see that in this area too, especially in the field of historic protection, the Hungarian nation, Hungary, has suffered enormous damage, because the government has basically destroyed the institutional system of historic protection, and here the professional aspects are barely functioning, and basically the Prime Minister's Office is the ministry that has basic room for manoeuvre in this area, which has room for manoeuvre. And we have received a lot of signs here in recent years in connection with the protection of monuments, for example in a series, that the Prime Minister's Office, at the request of various actors, may have removed the protection of monuments in the case of, say, a former outbuilding belonging to a castle where this would not have been justified. Congressman Vejkey also referred to the importance of protecting former estates, obviously what was left of it, for example, in the case of a castle park. We believe that outbuildings with historic protection should also be protected, not to mention that they should be properly recorded, that there should be adequate transparency so that, where appropriate, actors close to the government, let us say, in this way try to exempt themselves from existing maintenance obligations in the case of buildings classified as monuments, by removing the protection of monuments from certain buildings. I therefore believe that what is needed in this area is, in fact, a task of rebuilding the system of conservation of monuments. My specific question to the Secretary of State would be where and how we can access information that has been sent to the Prime Minister's Office in recent years, whether or not, since 2018, to review, where appropriate, this classification for buildings classified as monuments, and how we can obtain the information from them. I am very pleased that if I receive information about this, if not, I will obviously be happy to ask this question in writing. Overall, I can say, of course, as my fellow Members have said, that, of course, the direction that forms the backbone of the legislation and the preparations for it are obviously essential, so obviously this is important in itself, but, yes, there are a lot of other related measures that raise questions; and what I have already mentioned, the regulations that are inherently coming in from the salad character and the inadequate government work in this regard have made these critical elements clear to me. And then another closing thought. Here, too, Congressman Pócs referred to the right of society to obtain certain information, and it was in connection with archives that the publicity of important documents was a fundamental interest. I simply cannot miss the fact that this kind of thought does not appear to you when we want to achieve a more than three decades of omission, a serious omission, in the case of documents relating to communist state security, the publication and publication of agent files on the Internet. You have said no to our proposal 24 times without a substantive debate without allowing it to be included in a series of subjects and not making your own proposal. I certainly do not have any illusions as to why this kind of commitment has not come to you in this area, and why they do not realize that the publication of these data is, in fact, a very, very important element of the conclusion of the regime change to this day, and why they do not accept that democracy cannot be built on the secrets of dictatorship. I think that, here too, and in this area, we can see the contradiction that we can observe in relation to a lot of government measures, but this was just a parentheses note simply because the pro-government keynote speeches reminded me of this very, very serious deficiency. Overall, I can say that the LMP faction will consider voting in favour of the bill, although I would now guess in the present state of the bill that our decision will probably be that we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-11-10-70	Thank you, Mr Crusade, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-71	Hvala za besedo, gospod predsednik Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, cenjeni Zbor! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 8 November 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register and the amendment of certain laws relating to real estate registration, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural matters T/17443. Bill No. 1. Because of the involvement of ethnic communities in Hungary and national authorities, our Commission has asked the House Committee to connect to the negotiation of the law, and I am now sharing the Committee's opinion on the bill with you as a spokesperson appointed by the committee. By the government, T/17443. The proposed legislation amending the Real Estate Registration Act, which will enter into force on 1 February 2023, aims, inter alia, to ensure the transitional arrangements necessary for the transition to electronic administration. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, European countries use digital solutions to manage their own real estate registers, which is also the goal of creating them in Hungary. In addition to recording and storing data and managing the registration system, the introduction of an electronic registration procedure is an important step in the development of the registration system, as has long been the case in Europe and neighbouring countries. The paper-based contract will be terminated in Hungary from 2023, although the paper-based contract will continue. This type of legislative change is modern, XXI. They also naturally facilitate the handling of the affairs of the clients concerned, including those belonging to ethnic communities. The bill before us concerns a number of 48 subjects, which, as a result of the existing expediency, relate to legislative and coherent amendments to individual laws. I am trying to focus on the issues most relevant to ethnic communities and individuals, although as Hungarian citizens, we are affected by all laws and all legal changes. Another major issue of the amendments made in this bill is the strengthening of the protection of public documents, the clarification necessary to simplify the interpretation of certain procedures and rules of competence, and the clear legal definition of the scope of the records kept on public documents and the scope of the documents to be registered. The bill transposes into the legal system the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. experience gained in the application of law, which concerns matters of file handling, data processing, conceptual and archival competence. Point 10 of the bill concerns the minority communities in the most direct way, which is LXVI of 1995 on public documents and public archives and on the protection of private archives. deals with the amendment of the law. The bill is 16. Paragraph 1 (1) (b) clarifies the concept of a body performing a public task. We also consider national, regional and local minority self-governments as public bodies. In the same place, paragraph 2 (r) defines the relevant public register and paragraph 3 (t) defines metadata. The bill is 17. Article 18 of the Act defines the duty of the body carrying out the public service mission in addition to Article 18 of the Act. Article 10 of the Archives Act. Paragraph (1) (c) shall be amended in such a way that Article 10 of the Archives Act amends paragraph 1 (c) of the Act. In addition to the exceptions set out in Section 2 of this Article, it designates the issuing of specific rules for the handling of documents, inter alia, to the offices of national self-governments. [[14.30]] The bill is 19. Article 20 of the Act provides for the revision of the previous provisions by clarifying the order of the protection and handling of the documents of the body carrying out the public service mission and the necessary measures resulting therefrom. § specify the official procedure for the protection of public documents and designates the Hungarian National Archives for the exercise of administrative authority. The public document is the file file of the body performing the public service, i.e., any document belonging to or belonging to the public service body, irrespective of the time it was created and the place where it was kept. The bill also decides on a procedure that will enter into force in the event of circumstances seriously endangering the proper preservation of the records of the body carrying out the public task, that the Hungarian National Archives has the authority to draw the public service body's attention to the infringement, legal consequences and oblige it to eliminate the threat. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law No. 2 Paragraph 5 of the Article names the archives among the public collections carrying out the task of nationality. Thus, a public collection of nationality tasks is a library, archive, museum institution, image and sound archive, which has the instrument of incorporation, or in which nationality language or nationality documents can be found in a proportion of 25 per cent, irrespective of the type of maintenance organisation. Archives are institutions which serve as the primary source of knowledge of the historical past and which are essential for the continuous performance of public tasks and the enforcement of citizens' rights, in order to ensure the lasting preservation, processing and proper use of permanent documents which form part of the nation's cultural heritage. They are essential for the social control of a state based on democratic principles, and they are also the guardians of the most credible documents of national identity. Archives carrying out tasks related to non-removable public documents are public archives, which are maintained by public bodies. The bill is 21. § 2 of the Act regulates that the public archives take over and retain the non-cancellable public documents classified in their respective jurisdictions, as well as the private documents of lasting value. The professional storage and processing of preserved archives and their use are the tasks of the public archives; see Archives Act 13. §. The archives of higher education may also be the keepers of documents that are important for ethnic communities, and their competence in the bill 24. § 2 of the Act. The bill is 25. § 20 of the Archives Act. § 1 is replaced by the following:. The municipal or ethnic self-government may establish a public register covering the file management and archives of the company which is majority owned by the local government, its office and institution, as well as its legal predecessors, and its legal predecessors, as well as the administrative territory of the local government, the operational territory of the local government of the local government of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality. The Archives shall operate under the direct supervision and control of the local or minority self-government. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This amendment is of particular importance to the communities of nationality, as this paragraph has previously only named municipal self-governments. The archives of the national authorities are therefore included in the list of public archives, thus clarifying the legal framework for collecting and preserving private documents of nationality value. In the case of the public archives of the national authorities, the head of the public archives shall be appointed by applying for the opinion of the Minister for Culture. Public bodies, as well as bodies and persons with other material in the archives, are obliged to ensure the preservation of documents of lasting value, as they are the documents necessary for the research and knowledge of the historical past and for the performance of the public function and for the enforcement of civil rights. This statute applies to documents generated by the operation of the body of representatives, offices and institutions of the national authorities. A number of forward-looking studies and analyses can also be carried out, which carry useful information for the development of national minority organisations or even individuals. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Laws governing the declaration of protected status and the legal conditions for the abolition of protection, the rules on the tracing of lost cultural goods and the way in which goods are exported abroad. Further, the bill introduces legislative provisions on public private archives and archives of religious communities. The archives of church communities in many cases contain archival material on the history, culture and other values of nationalities, so they hold an excellent source for research into the history of nationality; they are important to us. The bill establishes a new empowering provision for the Minister responsible for culture to determine the status of the National Foreign Language Library, taking into account that the National Foreign Language Library is a base institution coordinating the native language library provision of Hungarian ethnicities. In point 42 of the bill, the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. Article 94 of the bill in the line of amendments to the Act. § 12 of the Act cited. § 4 lists the organisations with which it proposes a partnership agreement with the municipalities for the preparation of the settlement plan, manual and settlement picture decree. In order to preserve the built environment and architectural traditions of ethnic communities based on specific traditions, it would be appropriate to include minority self-governments in the list of partners. It is recommended that this be considered and replaced. Overall, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities considers the bill to be forward-looking in relation to the involvement of Hungarian nationalities, and proposes its adoption. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-10-72	Thank you, Mrs. Erika Kiss. Dear Parliament, I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute speech. The name of the other representative did not appear on the monitor for speech. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Azbej Tristan, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Asbej on Tristan's mark:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-10-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to the debate, I would like to signal that constructive proposals and suggestions will be considered and discussed in further stages of discussion. I would like to answer the critical points, the critical questions, or the questions asked in general. I'd like to divide critical remarks into two groups. One group did not primarily concern the proposed regulation, the bill, but opposed why it was not included in this package of proposals. In this connection, I would like to remind Members and gentlemen that the larger regulatory and legislative act on property registration was Act C of 2021 on property regulation, now we are talking about transitional regulation, fine-tuning, which lies before us in the bill. For example, this package of proposals contains transitional arrangements for proceedings initiated before the main provisions of that Act which will enter into force in February 2023. [[14.40]] In many cases, I am confused with further critical remarks, because they not only consider it to be the intention of the legislator, contrary to the intention of the author, to read out of this regulation, but also to cast on us intentions contrary to the subject of the package of proposals itself and to the purpose of its content. In general, not all political comments from one of these Mrs Potocsány, which would have meant that it would be in our interest to relax the rules on spatial planning, to open the way for all kinds of investments, even though, if we look at the proposed measures, it is entirely the opposite. To mention such an example, the government, the author, recognised that the requirements of settlement settlement integration currently do not appear in law, and this is a problem because the municipality that does not have a local construction code cannot be subject to sanctions to ensure that the given measure, investment, is in line with settlement matching considerations. So this is exactly what this bill seeks to remedy, the requirement for settlement integration is an auxiliary tool for the period when there is no local construction code. In view of the fact that the requirement concerns the task of the municipalities, we believe that it is essential to regulate this issue at the legislative level, according to the author. She also mentioned the investments in Balaton, and according to the package of proposals, the amendment of the Land Planning Act serves to increase the level of protection achieved in the agricultural areas on the shore of Lake Balaton, as well, since this topic has already been mentioned here. You allowed yourself a very malicious remark, Mr Varga, when you made a sub-belt reference to the government's intention to dispose of authentic documents with the bill here. Once again, he plans to say that he is white, because this legislative package says that if the maintenance of authentic instruments is seriously threatened, it may be ordered to place them at the central service provider following an official request. So it is precisely this bill that aims to save authentic instruments and can achieve it effectively. I don't remember which Member complained that the World Heritage Council would be terminated. There will be 22 members of the World Heritage Council with the right professionals. The statement by Congressman Varga that this council will be appointed by a minister will improve my opinion, an untrue, false government decree will provide for the composition of this World Heritage Council. I would also like to say, in response to the suggestion made by Mrs Potocsány, that I would like to correct a false statement, that this bill does not provide that municipalities should draw up a new plan for the development of settlements and settlements, which was provided for by an earlier law, but we do not believe that it imposes an insurmountable burden on municipalities. That law, that regulation, provides that these plans must be drawn up by 2027, so that six years are available. In addition, the government provides a source of HUF 3.5 billion to carry out the increasing tasks. With regard to the abolition of the protection of monuments, I would like to note here that all such protection has been abolished and abolished in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Heritage and in accordance with the rules. The government's commitment to the protection of cultural heritage is solid, not only at the level of words, but also because I was the representative of the government here in Parliament during the general debate. On the initiative of the government, Parliament ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crimes in Nicosia a few weeks ago. We were the fifth country to ratify this, and on the basis of the basic text of the Convention, this convention entered into force by ratification in Hungary. Finally, the rapporteur received questions and criticism as to the professional discussions that had taken place in this package. In this connection, I would like to say that the preparation of the amendment to the 1995 Act on authentic documents, public archives and the protection of private archives was carried out by the Ministry of Human Resources, involving the University of Archives and the Archives of Hungary, such as the Association of Hungarian Archives, the Council of Hungarian Archives, the Association of Hungarian Archives and the Association of Hungarian Archives. After extensive social consultation, the proposal was finalised and submitted on the basis of the professional aspects of archival and document management. As I mentioned in the expozee, when preparing the new provisions of the Law on Lawyers Act, the Hungarian Bar Association was involved in the preparatory work, as well as the local government interest associations were consulted during the preparation of the legislative proposals. I would like to mention, in part, the question of professional consultation, and partly of Mr Keresztes, on his question on information security, that the final proposed norm has also been sent to the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and that we have amended the bill and the draft bill in accordance with the comments they have made. Of course, the subject of this debate and the bill is not to give details of the individual technical considerations, and I believe that the involvement of NAIH is a guarantee that the rapporteur has also considered information security aspects. With all this in mind, thank you once again for this opportunity, for your attention and for the support of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative will follow. Government referral T/17427. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Following the change of regime, according to the provisions of the Act on Compensation and Distribution of Shares, agricultural cooperatives were required to draw up land funds, called land bases, which are commonly used jointly, and from land owned by any address. In these land funds, land owned by share owners had to be separated, land determined in the cooperative for the purpose of supplying land to cooperative members and employees, land owned by the Hungarian State and land with a golden crown determined for the purpose of auction in order to ensure compensation in agricultural land. [[14.50]] The land-base designation was a preliminary step in accordance with the relevant legal requirements, which was a prerequisite for further processes. As a result, it was possible for persons in different categories of entitlements to be able to provide land with the relevant procedures. In order for land ownership to be permanently settled, the law linked the process with the division of the land defined by the Compensation Act. Accordingly, it was for the cooperatives to designate land for the land of non-landowners and non-landowners and for the land for which compensation is granted. The Rozmaring Cooperative was established in the 1970s by merging several local agricultural cooperatives previously operating independently. The legislation allowed previously merged cooperatives to be re-established in administrative areas by the end of 1996 and to be separated together with their lands. This and the resulting imbalance created a conflict that has, to this day, unsolved and unfinished the compensation cases. In the case of the Rozmaring Cooperatives, land bases could not be trained alone in the country, because the decisions concerning them were challenged in order, and in any case the court ordered a new procedure to be carried out. The last draft land fund designation of the cooperative was drawn up by the real estate authority, which led to an appeal to a second degree and to a judicial degree, where it was annulled with a judgment in 2018, and the court ordered the first instance authority to proceed with a new procedure. By 31 December 2020, however, no new land fund was designated under this new procedure. The problem was that it was real estate close to Budapest, thus valued for agglomerational reasons, despite the fact that they are mainly agricultural. This speculative pressure has also appeared in respect of expropriations for mining and for road and rail development purposes. Another difficulty is that, in 1995, the Constitutional Court's decision and then the law on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas, adopted on the basis of it, abolished the designation of protected and protected areas on the ground and required them to be owned by the State. Part of the land of the Rozmaring Cooperative is located in the Buda Landscape Protection District, so it couldn't even be in private ownership. In order to conclude the share-financing procedures, the land covered by the cooperative land use right was owned by the State as of 1 January 2021 on the basis of the Act on the settlement of land ownership under the land use rights of the cooperative and amending certain land-use laws on the one hand, the fate of the land in the hands of the State and, on the other hand, the ability of the cooperative to carry out the land-use designation under the original rules was impossible. With regard to those entitled to share rights, the settlement of the situation was ensured under that law, which ordered the whole country to close the proceedings by allowing financial compensation of HUF 50,000 per golden crown entitlement for the share rights recorded on the separate sheet of the cooperative which had not yet been allocated. At the same time, it provided an opportunity to acquire the property in the possession of land previously owned by those entitled to share rights, if they renounced the compensation in cash. This solution applies to the cooperative's share rights which have not yet been granted, and also provides a solution for the compensation of the respective share holders. However, the situation of those entitled to compensation has remained irregular. Those with compensation tickets could use their compensation tickets in a number of ways, one of which was the possibility of getting land. However, in the operating area of the cooperative in Solymár, in the case of those entitled to compensation, the possibility of using their compensation tickets for the purchase of land was never available in the country in the absence of land-based separation. This gravely unfair situation affects some 300 families in Solymár, who, after the Second World War, have suffered from the horrors of the Communists, have not been able to receive justice to this day. The bill includes a new compensatory procedure to settle the situation. The procedure is not initiated automatically, but on request. First, it is necessary to verify the eligibility conditions for compensation and then establish the value of the realised gold crown of the entitlement mentioned in the compensation voucher and then the actual compensation. In view of this, the compensatory procedure consists of two stages. As a first step, in order to ensure a smooth and efficient closure of the 30-year process and to ensure that compensation is granted within a reasonable period of time, it is possible to establish the existence of compensatory entitlement within three months from 1 January 2022 and to request the competent land office to determine the golden crown value of compensation entitlement. In the case of those entitled to compensation, each person shall have the right, expressed in forints, to the full amount of the right to compensation and to the extent that the golden crown entitlement corresponding to the amount of compensation is determined. In the course of the conversion, the bill was worth 1000 HUF in compensation tickets or vouchers worth 1 gold crown. This calculation method ensures fair valorisation. In order to prevent further use of the compensation tickets concerned, the compensation tickets concerned will be included in the procedure. Compensation entitlements may not be transferred to persons other than relatives, but can, of course, be inherited. Following the existence of compensatory entitlement and the determination of the level of entitlement in the golden crown, the right holders may choose between compensation for the acquisition of land ownership or by means of a cash redemption. In order to make the procedure more effective, the exercise of the right of choice should be entitled to compensation once during the procedure and may be exercised by 30 June 2022 at the latest. The payment of HUF 50,000 per golden crown entitlement may be required for the claim for financial compensation. This amount is equal to the amount of compensation to be claimed by the share holders under the law closing the share-financing procedures and the average prices to be established for similar areas in compensation auctions. The payment of the compensatory amount shall be decided by a decision of the real estate authority. Payments may be made in the order in which applications for payment of compensation are received. Those entitled to compensation on land shall notify their claim to the National Centre for Earth Affairs no later than 30 June 2022. The land for which compensation is granted shall be established and designated by the National Land Management Centre from among the land owned by the State and subject to ownership rights. Any proposal or claim made by the claimants to determine the property for which compensation is granted in the course of the land grant procedure cannot, for example, be taken into account in its location, location number, area of cultivation. [[15.00]] Land to be compensated should be grouped according to the extent of the entitlements, which should take account of the means of settlement planning: for example, small parcels should be designed for those with small rights, where such areas are still in the area of cultivation. The aim of the compensatory procedure is also to apply the principles of the establishment of economically viable holdings. In view of this, the payment of land may be made by those entitled to compensation who have a right of at least 15 golden crowns on the basis of a decision establishing the golden crown value of the compensatory entitlement. In the event that the golden crown value of the compensatory entitlement is below 15 golden crowns, it is only possible to claim financial compensation unless several holders explicitly jointly request the offer of the undivided Common Property and the combined amount of golden crown entitlements reaches 15 golden crowns. After the offer of the property to the right holders for compensation, and after the acceptance of the offer within the deadline, the National Land Management Centre shall enter into a contract with the right holders concerning the ownership of the property. In the case of land-use compensation, only ploughing, grapes, gardens, meadows, pasture, reeds and wooded areas, without registered land use and burdens outside protected natural areas, and in the absence of an application for undivided common property, property with an I/I share may be transferred to the property of the rightholder of the compensation. In order to ensure future agricultural cultivation in the case of land acquired in the course of the compensatory procedure, it is necessary to ensure compliance with the obligation of land to be used and the cultivation of the land by the author under the ownership transfer contract, and to exclude land for other purposes for a period of five years, and to impose a five-year disposal ban on immovable property in the same way as the rules in force at the time of the compensation proceedings. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to discuss this bill, to understand that intention, the possibility of three decades of unconvinced legitimate compensation, to express your opinion, and at the end we will be able to accept it together, and to put an end to the unfairness that has gone undeservingly long. I ask you to do this, and I look forward to your corrective, improved contributions to this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-76	Thank you very much, Minister István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-10-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Few people remember the expression of the compensation land fund and its complicated rules. This is due to the joyful circumstance that the compensation and share-financing processes, following the regime change, marked the rural public speech of the nineties, but in a few years we managed to carry them out by thinking of them only as historical episodes. Today, however, such old technical terms appear in the National Assembly when we discuss this bill more than a quarter of a century later. The reason for this is that there is still a community in Hungary who, after such a long period of time, could not obtain the compensation they would be entitled to receive for the damages caused by the Communists some seventy years ago, after the Second World War. In advance, I would like to express my thanks and respect to these people, who have waited patiently to finally receive compensation for the injustices suffered in their youth, or to give their heirs in the case of their dead. We cannot be proud of the process that they have had to go through over the past decades. During this long period, public administrations and courts have not been able to deliver their case even until the first step has been taken. In this case alone, the land bases could not have been designed, which could have been the starting point for people seeking compensation from Solymár. The story of the affected Rozmaring Cooperative itself is already full of turns, as we have just heard in the ministerial expozee. The location of the land near Budapest did not make the situation any easier, which caused speculation in the minds of many. We have heard that the issue has also been made difficult by the nature conservation certification of most of the areas. It has become apparent to all the parties involved in the case that the path set out in previous legislation is incompatible with them. This requires a specific and specifically unique solution, which, like cutting through the Gordian knot, can be a quick solution. At the same time, the new rules must also ensure that unauthorized persons do not abuse the situation, i.e. the precise range of those for whom it is fair for the State to make specific provisions. However, there must be sufficient flexibility at other points, since, in view of the time passed, the documents proving entitlement may no longer be fully available. The specific issue to be considered is the amount of compensation. The compensation certificates issued in the early nineties have now lost a significant part of their value. These people, however, did not use and retain their compensation mark for speculation, and they simply did not have the opportunity to change it to earth. On the other hand, they had confidence in the state that someday their cause could be resolved. The redemption certificate is a security issued to a nominal value of the sum fixed in HUF, which has been paid only for a specified period of time, between 10 August 1991 and 31 December 1994, with a base rate of 75 per cent of the central bank's base rate. Since then, however, its value has been inflected, so it needs to be valorized. The bill contains a specific exchange rate when it corresponds to a golden crown value of HUF 1000. If we consider that in the event of the choice of monetary compensation, the amount of HUF 50 000 per golden crown is due, we can say that the bill contains a fair conversion rate. It should also be borne in mind that eligible persons no longer necessarily think about their careers in the same way as in the replacement of the compensation mark, i.e. agricultural production is no longer necessarily at the heart of their ideas, either at their age or in their changed situation. The bill therefore provides an opportunity to choose whether compensation is required by the person entitled to it in cash or in land supply. The amount of land owned by the State in the area of Solymár basically limits the distribution of land, since one of the causes of previous lawsuits was that the amount of demand exceeded the area of available cooperative land. It is obvious that a protected area or forest should not be released. We must also remember that, in the meantime, the rules on land traffic have also undergone a fundamental change, one of the cornerstones of which is that it is those who are going to land on it. Furthermore, in the context of the elimination of undivided joint ownership, we have learned that excessive fragmentation should be avoided. The legislative proposal takes account of the points expressed, and the deadlines set there provide a reassuring guarantee that the process can be completed within one year, i.e. within a reasonable period of time. As opposed to land speculation, it is sufficient to ensure that the land received cannot be withdrawn from farming for five years, in line with the land traffic rules, and that a disposal ban is registered for the State for five years. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill can finally bring real satisfaction to the 300 families of Solymár concerned after the Second World War for the damages suffered under the communist regime, so I propose with good conscience and ask all of you to vote in favour. The Fidesz fraction, of course, supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2021-11-10-78	Thank you very much, Congressman György Czerván. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2021-11-10-79	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I won't be long to comment. On the one hand, the bill itself is short, and Minister, the preliminary history of how we have come to this point has been summarized, so there is no point in repeating it. Understand the intention, Minister, and we will be able to do so, the Jobbik faction will be able to support this bill. I have some technical questions or questions that some of the families concerned have communicated, since they have read the draft, but not all points are quite clear to them, or there would be specific needs in this regard. If you could shed some light on the possibility that there is still a way to put their questions and put them in the legislation, I would thank you. On the one hand, there are these 15 golden crown thresholds, which, for practical reasons, is clear why it was born, but since this problem now affects relatively few people, I do not think that it would cause a national upheaval if we did not take into account the legitimate avoidance of property fragmentation here, and we said that if they had been waiting for a solution for decades, they would insist, even if it were a small piece of land, that they would be able to obtain land, then perhaps we could avoid this minimum of 15 gold crowns. I would also like to know on what average this gold crown compensation of HUF 50,000 comes out on how to imagine it. Were they based on a national average when it was stated that this was an appropriate amount or even the land market on the ground was taken into account? After all, as has been said here, it is close to Budapest, and the value of the land is typically higher here. Why isn't this process automatic? Why do those affected need to be claimed? It is not certain that all 300 people, 300 families, have access to this information, that now they have the opportunity to solve this problem for decades. I think it's absolutely lifelike that they don't follow this every day. Even if it wasn't automatic, could the state at least take on the task of notifying them? I am sure that you have this information about who might be entitled to this compensation, and at least by an official letter inform them that these three months are slowly beginning and getting ready. I don't think that's such a problem. I would also be interested to know what kind of social consultation has taken place, and this has happened on the spot in relation to the fact that those concerned really consider these amounts to be useful, these deadlines. That's pretty much what I'd like to find out. As I said in advance, we agree with the aim, we want to help those affected a little more effectively in practical implementation. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-10-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's gonna make me shorter, too. Yes, on the part of the MSZP we can only support this amendment of the law or the provision itself as to how the government is trying to remedy this decades-old deficiency without having access to compensation by these owners without their own faults. All I would like to say here is that I am not one of too young people anymore, but I have to say that when we talk about compensation, we have to remember a troubled time: there were those who were rightfully acquired their property, but there were many victims even of compensation, and we have shortcomings, decades of shortcomings in this respect, not only in the current government, but also in the previous governments. There were many who suffered, and it is evident in this case how bureaucracy itself could intervene, like the courts. As the Minister said, the discussion of these matters has started again and again, or how he has been able to intervene, let us say, speculation in these matters that we have seen. I can only hope that we can really put an end to this matter in the next year, and, of course, we will support the initiative. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-82	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My comment will be a little longer than that of my fellow opponents. The Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association Act seeks, yes, after 30 years, to put an end to the claims of the Solymar compensateants who have not yet been able to convert their compensations into land ownership. We could talk about the wrong compensation, the abuse, the profiteers, but this era has been over for a good 15 years in most of the country, and finally the Solymar farmers can get what's legally due to them. However, we see that the method of compensation has become a little more complicated than necessary. First, the parties concerned have three months to submit a compensatory claim to the real estate authority by the end of March and then, after the finality of the real estate authority's decision, but not later than 30 June, to decide whether they want financial compensation or land payments. This deadline, together with the deadlines for administration and the time for the decision to rise to legal force, means that the parties concerned may only have a few weeks to decide whether they want to receive financial compensation or a grant of land. In addition, if they decide to grant land, they will not have to apply to the real estate authority that has previously taken a decision, but to the National Centre for Earth Affairs. These applications shall be aggregated by the NFK by 30 September but shall only be determined and offered to the holder by 31 December 2022. Those who do not accept the area offered by the NFK can only claim financial compensation. In my mind, the service state, the customer-friendly offices, where the client is not sent to the busy area of administration, where deadlines are not only binding on one party. How much simpler this story could be if, in conjunction with the call for information, the rightholder could make a preliminary statement that he primarily claims land or financial compensation! Thus, the NFK would have accurate information already in March on the size of the golden crown land expected to be compensated. In parallel with the verification of entitlements, the NFK could draw up a list of possible properties and, taking into account the golden crown values, a decision could be taken with the right holders on the selected property. In the spirit of justice, if more people were to claim a property, they could be decided by a draw, who would change his mind, choose financial compensation, so that the first ownership transfer contracts could be made in the summer. Since most of the people involved are old people, the faster, smoother administration would be even more important than in other cases. In the case of the NFK, experience tells us a lot of things, but not about quick administration. The winner of a tender will typically have to wait several months for a purchase contract to be concluded, but we also know of several cases where it was finally more than a year before the contract was concluded, and the delegated law firm concluded the sales contract. [[15.20]] But not only in these cases, the National Earth Control Center is slow. Customer searches may not always be answered, or they may only be months later. Personal administration is only available in Budapest, in an office. The latest news on their website in March, we find nothing among the applications, while an invitation was published on 5 November, in which a 20-hectare fish pond and a total sales bid for the surrounding areas of more than 47 hectares were published. Obviously, the announced sales price of 290 million will not attract crowds, but it would be time to communicate transparently, understandably and customer-friendlyly so that the client does not have to hunt the information he is interested in. In this procedure, where a large number of years of failure to comply with legislation are sought to correct, even more attention should be paid to the needs of customers. Since we are not talking about compensation for masses, there are only a few dozen or even a few hundred claimants to be dealt with, we believe that the minimum would be to try to remove the burden of administration from the shoulders of those affected and to ensure that the NFK does not decide entirely independently from them which land can be used to cover the compensation. [[Continue in 222/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary The Green Party of LMP Hungary would like to ensure that the offices and authorities act in the most customer-friendly manner possible in their procedures, so that, at the time of drafting the laws, the legislator would be aware that the clients involved in the proceedings do not have to contact more offices with the same case if the agencies are able to transmit information among themselves. Customers should not have to fill out the same data on dozens of forms, together with statements and certificates of the same or very similar content. Offices and authorities are much more familiar with the procedure, so they are aware of what data are required to be transmitted to each office in respect of a procedure in order to make the procedure smooth. CHAPTER XXI In the 20th century, there should be a fundamental requirement for all public, municipal and other agencies, authorities, to keep the interests of customers in mind at all times and to share information on all cases with their customers as soon as possible. Since, according to the Green Party of Hungary, special attention is paid to those concerned in this procedure beyond the usual customer-friendly approach, we will be submitting an amendment to the law so that they can receive compensation for them for several decades by a shorter route and less administration. At the same time, we have initiated a legislative amendment to allow the right holders to participate in the selection of the property that can be compensated for, so that, in the end, this procedure can be concluded more quickly and with greater satisfaction from those who are entitled to compensation. Mr Minister, I very much hope that our amending proposals will be considered in order to compensate those who are waiting for compensation in the operational area of the Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative with even faster and more effective results. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. No need for a two-minute comment. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality.
u2021-11-10-85	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich meine Meinung, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlag mit Titel 17427. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express my opinion on T/17427. on the draft law on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the field of the operation of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association. In us, the German nationality in Hungary was exponentially understood by the second. violations, lootings, humiliations following World War II. It began at the end of the war with the Málenkij robot, the Germans in Hungary were taken to the Soviet Union for forced labor, followed by the violent expulsion and plundering of Vertreibung, the Germans in Hungary for three years, and then continued with the expropriation and nationalization of the land, houses, shops and plants of those who stayed home. It can be said that what has not happened to us may not have happened. The various levels and forms of compensation following the change of regime have formally tried at least partially to compensate for these crimes, but of course there has never been, nor will there be, nor will it be possible. It was instructive when, 60-75 years after the events, in 2017, the German State granted a one-off allowance of EUR 2500 to those who, due to their German nationality or nationality, were forced to work by foreign power, force or threat between 1 September 1939 and 1 April 1956. This allowance cannot be called compensation except for forced labour as a civilian; forced labour as a prisoner of war no longer entitles me to this benefit. Yet, almost all of Europe's states have received a large number of legitimate demands that the Bundestag has had to significantly increase the initially one-off allocation framework several times, and the well-organised German state apparatus has taken several years to deal with legitimate claims. And once again, putting this one-time benefit in a summons only applied to those who were forced to do civil work, did not affect the sufferers of the thousands of crimes committed in other forms. Nevertheless, it is not understandable after what the Minister said, but it explains that more than 30 years after the change of regime, there are still areas of compensation in Hungary that have not yet been partially compensated, such as the case of the Solymarians and Pilisszentivans affected by the operation of the Rozmaring Workshop. Therefore, I would like to thank Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, who took this question up, and Dr. István Nagy, Minister and colleagues, who had sufficient sensitivity to do so, and who have drawn up the bill, which is hopefully a solution before us, to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Minister for Nationalities, who submitted this. I would like to point out that, of course, I fully agree with the aim and content of the proposal. I know that during the preparation of the bill, there have been a number of discussions with the injured, including the Solymár Stakeholder Forum. At the same time, allow me to make a number of clarifications and amendments to the proposed legislation, which are the majority of the forum for the reconciliation of interests in Solymár, and, if it is possible to say so here in Parliament, on the basis of the opinion of the minority Pilisszentivan, I should suggest. The following points of the bill are proposed to be supplemented or amended. First of all, it's the 2nd. § (a): XXV of 1991 on the partial compensation of damage caused by the State to the property of citizens in order to settle the property. Act (hereinafter referred to as "Kpt." , or the 1992 XXXII on the compensation of the unjustly deprived of their lives and freedom for political reasons. Act XXIV of 1992 comes from this point of view, and Act XXIV of 1992. the final administrative decision of the end of the supplement provides for compensation and compensation tickets, a compensation note issued for the amount of the aid for agricultural undertakings or a proof of residual value issued by the Office for Compensation, which has not been used at a compensation auction, and... [[15.30]] Reason: Article XXIV of 1992. In addition to the law, we see the legislative reference as complete. The second is the second. § aa) point, previously in the event of damage to the property or property that has been damaged, completed, or owned by the estate, supplement, or other real estate, the end of the supplement, the Kpt. According to the legislation listed in Annex 1 or Annex 2 to the cooperative's land use, supplement, or state, end of the supplement, property, or... and so on. Reason: on the one hand, we consider it important to limit the scope of the rightholder to those who have suffered damage in Solymár, otherwise an inaccessible amount of compensation may arise. On the other hand, during the nationalisation, properties other than land, such as houses and shops, were not necessarily owned by a public cooperative. At this point, I would like to mention what the Pilisszentiván people are asking that the bill apply to Pilisszentiván in addition to Solymár, because there was no compensation auction in Pilisszentiván without a final foundation. He was in all the other settlements. Only the narrowing down of the bill to Solymár may, in their opinion, raise constitutional objections. I would like to note here that, because of the mine in Pilisszentiván, where the working hand was particularly needed at the end and after the war, the removal of German nationality was minimal. The bill can affect up to 5-10 people and families, so the extension to Pilisszentiván should not cause any substantive financial or land problems with the 300 families affected by Solymár. The third is the third. Paragraph (2). An application for the determination of the entitlement to compensation and for the determination of the golden crown equivalent to the amount of compensation laid down in the compensation ticket or compensation voucher may be submitted to the real estate authority by 31 March 2022, supplementing it by personal or authorized means. Reasons for the request are that several persons concerned are unable to submit the application in person because of their age or state of health. This would only be a specific clarification, but if the rules of the General Administrative Regulation permit administration by proxy in the first place, this addition is, of course, not necessary in this bill. Fourth time's the 7th. Paragraph 3 of this Article. The construction of new real estates should also be subject to the establishment of roads registered in an independent local map number for their approach and the settlement of the ownership of the roads, supplemental: in agreement with the settlement plan of the settlement. I think this addition is a natural and natural need from the locals. I am aware that the current land boundaries do not constitute a definition of land formation by the state, but the need for a supplement does not want to change that, but only proposes reconciliation. Mr President, Dear Minister, Having highlighted and thanked once again for the inclusion of this bill in Parliament and today we can discuss it, I respectfully ask the Minister that the four to five clarification amendments proposed by the stakeholders should be agreed out of order, and which is justified and eligible, I will be willing to submit it as an amendment by its representatives. I hope this will help us to ensure that this situation, which has been unworthy of many generations, is settled in a satisfactory way for everyone. I thank you in advance for your understanding and helpful cooperation. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-11-10-86	Thank you, Congressman Ritter Imre. I now give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor Fidesz.
u2021-11-10-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A few years ago, Gödöllő had a regular annual meeting of the Plant Health Association, and it was also a day for plant doctors. During his break he approached me now I know, but at that time I didn't know, Sándor Jablonkay, and he drew attention to himself by saying that he would like to give me a pálinka braised from the pear tree of the fruit-killing Merry Woman's barley. He took me off my feet, of course. Then he indicated that he wanted to continue the conversation on a more serious matter, such as this noble and preserved very ancient pear tree. This was done a few weeks or months later, when he approached me on behalf of the farmers who had not received compensation from Solymár, in particular as vice president of the representative forum for the settlement of interests in Solymár. He told the story that many of us are talking about now. Of course, I, who lived through the compensation process, even though he was my responsible and controlling father, knew precisely that the story started with the fact that the actors and cooperatives were ground-based. He said there was no ground-based training here, and I said it was impossible. At the time, on the Internet, we looked up the speeches of countless reconciliation forums in Solymár about why ground-based training could not have taken place. The Minister reported on this: debates, permanent appeals, judicial decisions and, as time progressed, the law that we adopted in 2020 which did not cover could not extend to the problem that there was no ground training in Solymár, Hungary alone. The unrecompensated land was eventually owned by the State by the Law of 2020 and thus also by the unrecompensated Solymar lands, which did not even form the foundation of the ground. I know very few people understand what I'm talking about here, but thank God, in a narrow sense, the professional people understand that this is an extremely striking problem, so much so that we had to add a separate law, it wasn't enough to excavate what Mr Jablonkay and I had once again discussed. I was obliged to suggest at the Ministry of State for Land Affairs of the Agricultural Ministry that we should sit down, I organised this meeting, and from the legal side, let us look at how it is possible to help this process at all because of the extremely long time span and the fact that laws have been created, and there are no more compensation offices and other institutions. We should have put ourselves in that period, as if we were in 1992-94 together with all the then government institutions, but those then administrative institutions no longer exist. We should have taken a historical step back. We should have gone back 30 years. That's where the very complicated negotiation process started. It was in the spring and summer of 2020 when meaningful negotiations began in the Agricultural Ministry with the members of the management of the quoted stakeholder forum, and this consultation continues until today. Therefore, I would just like to point out to the opposition representatives that I understand their concern and even better ideas, but the representatives of the stakeholder forum will send all these points to the competent department of the Agricultural Ministry, currently to the legal department, to clarify that I still have a summary proposal from Mr Jablonkay at 14:39. It contains most of the points that we have heard here, but thank God, among the recipients, there is also the legal department of the Agricultural Ministry, with whom we have already discussed the need to clarify what is at issue today from the point of view of legality and constitutionality, since some of the ideas raise constitutional concerns. We do not know that this will have to be clarified by those who are better qualified than ourselves in this area, but there is no question of intention. [[15.40]] If, after 30 years, there was at last an Agrarian Ministry that showed a sense of reception, that we would really discuss what happened here in Solymár and try to sort this out after 30 years, then let us believe that we would like to pursue all the possible ways in the legal sense of today, in the interest of those involved. Of course, it is a serious issue that the land known since then and the proximity to Budapest and the price increases in the fields have generated an extraordinary land hunger in everyone, well, in those waiting for compensation, especially for understandable reasons, because they are even entitled to receive these lands. But these lands are only partially located, partly protected, so the process also describes the need to clarify which settlement, from when, and under what right, could have initiated the compensation, well, if you so request, this can be converted into monetary counter-compensation with the forintal values of the gold crown conversion presented by the Minister. This is a fairly fair amount, trying to follow the valorization and all the other things that can be done, and of course there is the opportunity to claim physical lands, but these lands can only be partially claimed back. What the Hungarian State can do now is simply that what it owns, which is obvious in any part of the country, is also included in the closest areas of Solymár, which it can offer to them, but it cannot do anything else, because all the other lands are owned by private individuals. And that will result in certain grievances. Whatever good intentions the Ministry of Agriculture would like to follow in carrying out the procedure, it is understood that the situation that would have been possible between 92 and 94, and the land for compensation at the border of the two settlements, can not be physically offered at the same level today. There is no question that there is clearly a need for members of the stakeholder forum to carry out the land owned and offered to them by the State with physical access and everything else. This is the process that follows, no question. And there are also issues in the speech referred to above, in the speech referred to by the Member, that must really be looked at, whether or not these requests can be met under the current EU and Hungarian and constitutional rules. I'm telling you, this process is still going on. There is no question that an amendment could be tabled, the Agriculture Committee is expected to discuss all the agricultural legislation next Wednesday, and it is also possible for the Committee to submit an amendment if the issues raised by the Stakeholder Forum and the legal option so far allow. So all that means to improve the will and the maximum satisfaction of the compensation is ready for it, the Ministry and our agricultural committee. I can imagine there being a request that simply needs to be said that, in the present situation, we cannot do this, even though we want to do everything in their interest. I am very confident that this lame compensation, which concerns the Solymarians, will, however, put an end to their 30-year-old Calvary, if nothing else, we should now contribute to this, and the possibility that they may decide to make amends in cash or in kind, will have to be decided by them. It's not a simple question, but there's nothing more and better to be promised to them now. Obviously, we want to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-10-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2021-11-10-89	Thank you, Mr. President. The only reason I asked for the floor was because both Minister in the Expoze and Commission President Font Sándor said that there might be some disappointed stakeholders who would like to receive compensation in agricultural land, but they will not know, because Solymár will not be able to do so, and they may be forced to accept an area far away from their homeland, let us say. I would like to point out that the reason for this is not only that a significant part of the land of the former Solymár cooperative has been declared a nature conservation area, and that this, as a matter of course, reduces the part of the land where it can be created and rented, but also may be due to the fact that, let us say, the Hungarian state has privatized the agricultural land in the region. Wouldn't it have been nice if they hadn't sold a large part of the state land, and now, for example, it could have been offered to the Solymarians for this purpose, especially to those who, in fact, want to get land? I only wanted to note this because we told you at the time of the privatisation of the agricultural land that there would be such cases, even in the case of exchanges, when it would be very good if the state had room for manoeuvre. Thank you.
u2021-11-10-90	Thank you very much. No further comments were received. The general debate... At the same time, President Font Sándor of the Agriculture Committee pressed the button.
u2021-11-10-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that we are bringing in a political dimension here for this bill on hard-core historical and professional affairs. I would just like to say to Vice-President Zoltán Magyar that, on such a point, how good it would have been if, and then it would not have been so, I would have said how good it would have been if the living ancestors of your current left-wing allies hadn't illegally taken their property from farmers after 47, they wouldn't have been beaten into action, and then the first freely elected government, the Antall government, shouldn't have had to deal with the idea of compensation at all. Do you understand? Because this is derived from what happened here, in Hungary, between 47 and 50. After all this nonsense, I will not answer back, no matter what reflection comes to my question. In the current situation, we want the best possible solution for those who are waiting for legitimate compensation from Solymár. This is our intention, and no one can override it, and we will show it with this law and any amendments that may be accepted.
u2021-11-10-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes.
u2021-11-10-93	Thank you. Mr President, we agree that post-war nationalization has been a terrible tragedy, the consequences of which we are suffering to this day. So we fully agree on this, and I'm glad that you couldn't disprove the fact that public land privatisation has pushed you out of the way with the Solymár stakeholders, because now, those who want to get land as beneficiaries will probably not be able to get land in the region, maybe just far away, because of this. So we can say that this is also a sin of the current government. Nevertheless, of course, we support the legislation, as I said earlier, but I just wanted to indicate that it would obviously have had much more room for manoeuvre in this regard if these lands had not been privatised. Thank you.
u2021-11-10-94	Thank you very much. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Minister, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-11-10-95	That's right, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The moment when one feels that history is passing through the sitting room, we are struck by the wind of history, and some of the comments here have made it very clear what grievances, what human fates, tragedies are those that still need to be provided and are still waiting for a solution, and this is what this moment is like. One of those moments we're in. And yes, to think that we are trying to deal with generations of grievances right now, this moment is a moment of honor, a moment of distinction in my life as well. Thank you very much for understanding that it is important for us to take action, it is important to look for solutions, and thank you very much for all the improvements and comments that you have made to the bill, how you think this could be done, to make it even better. [[15.50]] When 50,000 forints are reduced, I have to say that 50 times the nominal value of the compensation ticket is valorized, and we think that is a very correct multiplication. And the 15 golden crowns were added because Imre Ritter also brought forward the road formation, so that by increasing the value of the earth, small areas would be enforced that would be difficult. But nothing prevents those who have an emotional charge for this, because most of the time, the earth is a huge emotional issue, that the two or three of them form an undivided joint and are already releasing the 15 golden crowns, so they can fully function and retain, have the right to access the area they want if they insist on the land. I believe that my fellow Members have also given back with historical loyalty that there have been few social consultations in this matter, so that we can answer all these questions properly. Thank you very much for the speech and support of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély on the bill. To the suggestion of Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck that it is more complicated than it should be. It's complicated, because 30-year-old history, which isn't solved, and an intergenerational injury that leaves extremely deep wounds and traces in the human soul, is what we're trying to solve. I have to say it's practically simple, because you have to say it, either on your own, or by authorized means, because it comes naturally from the regulation, the order of the rule, that you want cash or land. This is the only decision-making entitlement that must be granted. But you must make a statement, and I am referring you back to my fellow Member of Hungary, because the state does not keep a record, we do not know who has it, who owns the Málenkij robot or the ticket of compensation in the case of evacuation. It is therefore necessary to make a statement and to set a limitation period so that this process can be closed once and for all. What I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Imre Ritter, is that almost all of the proposals he has made are eligible, the request of the Pilisszentivans is also naturally, because they are equally affected, they bear the same psychological scars, and they have the same injustice, so we think it is, of course, acceptable. Once again, land-use planning principles are supported. When it came to talking to the congresswoman that the deadline is longer than the NFK, it is already not so simple, because by the time they bring everything together and try to do those land designings, this is not a simple process by which it takes place; and in my opinion, it is also fully eligible to include the addition to the third compensation law in the system of the eligibility process. I hope that with all these amendments, taking into account these historical injustices, we can give an appropriate answer. Allow me to finally thank Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who listened to him, took up the problem of the Solymarians and helped me to draft the bill, to represent the interests of the locals in the legislative process. I trust that by adopting the bill, you can repay this old debt by bringing the full satisfaction of those involved, and finally bringing a relief in the lives of the two settlements, in the lives of those living there, to which you can say that we have finally succeeded in achieving what we wanted, and we can say that, yes, we have managed to solve this issue fairly and to close it with honor. It's a matter of honor, I think. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-96	Thank you very much, Minister István Nagy. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. We now have a general debate on the draft legislation on the transfer of agricultural holdings until closure. The government referral is T/17428. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-11-10-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Currently, the main majority of the Hungarian agriculture is farmers belonging to small and medium-sized enterprises working individually or within the framework of a family economy. Their importance is indisputable, so supporting their operation is essential for the further development of the Hungarian agriculture and food industry. Recognizing this, this House adopted last year, with multi-party support, the Family Farms Act, which was the first step in our efforts to regenerate the generation targeted at agriculture, and as a result about 30,000 newly registered in the prima facie register. The next step in this process is the Act on the transfer of agricultural holdings, which creates a new voluntary opportunity to transfer the economy to farmers who, after the revised decades, would provide their offspring with an opportunity to maintain the viability of the economy. We could also put it this way, allowing fathers to enjoy the results of their sons' work. The draft law was prepared with the active and supportive cooperation of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Cooperatives, for which I would like to express my thanks. The basic aim of the agricultural policy is to modernise, sustainable and efficient production by promoting generation renewal, to turn the demographic processes of rural areas in a more favourable direction, to encourage horizontal and vertical cooperation, to strengthen the market appearance of producers, thereby ensuring the wider supply of domestic quality products to the population. Based on the data of the 2020 economic structure census of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the age composition of both individual farmers and the managers of economic organisations is unfavourable, most of them belonging to the older age group. More than 60 percent of individual farmers are over 55 years of age and more than half of this group are 65 years of age or older and half of the managers of economic organisations are over 55 years of age. At the same time, the proportion of people under 40 is 10% among individual farmers and 12% among managers of economic organisations. Overall, the age mix of both groups deteriorated when comparing the economic structure census data of the HCSO in 2016 and 20, on the other hand, the problem is of greater importance for individual economies, as it affects more people in many of them, the data are worse, and the legal possibilities for economic transfer are not developed with social enterprises, economic organisations. By now, however, the changing generation of farmers' backbones has reached retirement age. If the transfer takes place in the life of the transferring farmer, it can assist the recipient with its knowledge and experience. This form of knowledge transfer is of great value to young people, and we, too, strongly support the implementation of intergenerational cooperation. About 90 percent of the young farmers in agriculture are primarily taking over a functioning economy. Successful generation renewal depends mainly on the transfer of economies as effectively as possible. Lucky for you, this happens within the family. At the same time, the change of generations does not have domestic traditions, established order. In view of the results of the surveys carried out over the past period, the administrative tasks are the most difficult for the stakeholders surveyed, in their own opinion, to transfer and take over the economy. [[16.00]] In the course of the transfer, it is a problem that the acceptance of obligations relating to the various subsidies, succession and modification of the authorisations of the authorities in the various suppliers, sales of products and business contracts should be addressed. This therefore means a delegation contract of magnitude 10 for an average economy, a number of amendments to contracts, amendments to aid documents and amendments to a number of official authorisations, which, overall, take up to eight to ten months. Therefore, as a next step in the process of generation renewal, we have aimed at facilitating the administrative burden associated with the transfer in order to ensure that economic transfers in the lives of farmers can still take place. The negotiations will result in the establishment of a contract for the transfer of the economy, which is included in this draft. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The new package of laws focuses on a family-based or long-cooperative economic transfer between the living, based on the consensus of the parties to the economy and the family members, and aims at a swift and smoother settlement of the issue of land ownership, use, modification of official permits, transfer of contracts and transfer of proposals and grants. Again, I would like to point out that this new type of contract is just an opportunity for those who choose to stop farming for good. Those who do not agree to the conditions set out in the draft may sell, transfer part of their economy or continue their activities for the rest of their lives, in accordance with the rules currently in force. As a result of farming, wealth has been created which in this form has a greater value than the sum of the individual assets and which is separate from the personal property of the farmer who is an agricultural farmer. Our agricultural policy goal is to keep this wealth together and to keep it running. The farm transfer contract can be four types of contract: sales contract, gift contract, maintenance contract and annuity contract. In order to enable family members to settle domestic assets, the draft allows the four types of contracts to be supplemented by the use of agricultural land for forestry purposes, i.e. by the agreement of the parties, the economic transferor retains the ownership of the land used for agriculture and forestry and, in the contract of economic transfer, transfers it to the holder for the longest period laid down in the legislation. The economic transferor thus provides the economic transferor, in the event of his death, with a continuous income to the heirs who acquire ownership of the land. Each type of contract may be used in a mixed manner in order to adapt the contract to their own situation. The obligations of an economy transferer reaching or approaching the retirement age should also be mentioned. The economic transferor must undertake not to engage in any new activity in relation to his activity in the economy provided for in the economic transfer contract and, after the transfer of ownership of the holding, to cease his activities related to the economy, since the economic transfer is intended to enable the economic transferor to complete its activity and not to engage in new agricultural and forestry activities. The law provides only one solution for the transfer of farms, so the economy can be passed on with other already known contracts even without this obligation. The operator uses the land itself, cannot use it for any other purpose and must fulfil the recovery obligation in accordance with the Land Traffic Act. The value of an economy is not only given by the individual assets, but also by the knowledge and relationship system of the farmer. In order to achieve a successful generational shift, the law establishes the conditions for a longer cooperation between the economic transferor and the economic transferor at least ten years younger than him, allowing the transfer of knowledge of the economic transferor. The Parties may thus cooperate for a maximum period of five years on the basis of their joint decision. The parties are jointly entitled to handle cases, the administration being responsible for decision-making for the operation of the economy. Cooperation under the economic transfer agreement will provide a framework for future cooperation between the economic transferor and the economic transferor in such a way that the details of the cooperation cannot be determined at the time of the conclusion of the contract and, consequently, possible conflicts and decision-making situations cannot be expected from the contract. Instead, it should be assumed that cooperation requires continuous decisions and that these decisions should be taken unanimously by the economic transferor and the economic transferor. In the case of cooperation under the economic transfer agreement, the ownership of the holding shall, as a general rule, be transferred at the end of the duration of the cooperation to the economic recipient, who shall fulfil the conditions or pay the full purchase price by that date. If the economic operator pays the purchase price in instalments during the duration of the cooperation, the holder shall be entitled to a mortgage on the elements of the holding, which shall be recorded by the parties in the contract of economic transfer, up to the amount of the purchase price paid. The farm transfer contract shall be approved by the agricultural administration within 60 days of receipt of the documents. The holder of the economic transfer contract shall replace the economy transferor in all civil law obligations relating to the holding without the consent of the third party remaining in the contract, the Ptk. by succession on the basis of the rules on the transfer of contracts. In order to do so, the parties should lay down in the economic transfer agreement the obligations of the economic transferor prior to the transfer under certain contracts and that those obligations are assumed by the economic transferor in accordance with each contract, which is particularly important in the case of oral contracts. In the course of succession, the rights and obligations of the economic transferor leaving the contract shall be transferred to the operator entering the contract, in such a way as to maintain the continuity of the relationship vis-à-vis the party remaining in the contract. As a result, the relationship between the party remaining in the contract and the economic operator entering the contract can be considered to be the continuation of the relationship between the party remaining in the contract and the economic transferor leaving the contract, the holder being entitled to the same rights and obligations as the economic transferor. Thus, the duration of the contract is neither bound nor recommenced, the limitation period is not interrupted, nor any other time-limits can be resumed. The economic operator shall replace the farm transferor, if he so requests and complies with the statutory conditions, with all the official authorisations necessary for carrying out the agricultural and forestry activities related to the holding. If the authority refuses to amend the licences, the economic operator may not pursue the activities specified in the permit, but therefore the economic transfer contract will not cease. In the case of agricultural holdings affected by the transfer of rights, such as eligibility for aid or obligation, such as agricultural subsidies which establish a maintenance obligation, the holding transferor shall replace the holding transferor on the day following the transfer of ownership of the holding. If the operator does not comply with the eligibility and content of the aid, the grant relationship shall be terminated and the economic transferor shall be exempt from the obligation to repay the aid. In order to ensure coherence between the provisions of the draft and the Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land, the following amendments are necessary: pre-emptive rights do not cover land used for agricultural and forestry use as defined in the economic transfer agreement; in respect of land use, as a result of the civil succession, the economic recipient takes over the land used by the farm transferor and the land use register should be registered as a land user; thirdly, as regards the right to pre-lease, the economic transferor is placed at the place of rank of the economic transferor. In the case of the inheritance of undivided common property on land, no share of the property which is below the territorial minimum laid down by law may be formed. [[16.10]] To this end, if the estate wholly owned by the deceased is jointly inherited by several heirs under the rules of legal succession, the heirs may choose from the following options: 1. By means of a classic arrangement, each property is provided for as the ownership of the land property is acquired by an heir. 2. They shall attempt to share the property or to own it by a person. 3. The property is sold jointly under the legacy procedure and the consideration received becomes part of the estate or is offered to the State. The planned entry into force is proposed on 1 January 2023. This is because the law which is now to be adopted is a regulatory framework, the conditions for practical application being established after the adoption of its rules, such as the establishment of a link and coordination of procedural rules between the electronic systems of public authorities, but it is equally important to allow sufficient time for the introduction of a new type of contract and for the professional preparation for its application. Overall, the new economic transfer contract can be drawn up by the parties in accordance with their own situation and the provisions of the draft significantly ease the administrative burden of the transfer. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The bill and its related measures are an important step towards the generational renewal in the field of agriculture. In the interests of the development of Hungarian agriculture, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill with their contributions, professional proposals and, of course, their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-98	Thank you, Minister. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Font, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-10-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The problem that we want to address in part is not unique. The ageing of farming society is characteristic of Europe as a whole. If we look more closely at the data, we see that this situation is even more and more severe in Western Europe. We are also following this trend, in which we see that there is not enough young farmers to replace the ageing farmers, but there is a slight hope, for example, when a call for proposals for young farmers is published, there is usually multiple over-subscriptions in terms of the available source of support or in terms of its proportion. So there is a spark, a faint light, which might burn with a greater flame, if we made the environment, the circumstances, so that more people would be attracted to farming and living from it. The government is trying to take this incentive to younger farmers in several steps. The tax legislation in force this year was adopted in the previous year, which, for example, seeks to provide a particularly strong tax assistance for family farming, family ancestry and family-based social enterprises in a European comparison. This law is alive from January this year. This means that we are now the first year of farming, the very preferential tax consequences of which can already be enforced by farmers on next year's tax returns. I stress that, in European comparison, we do not see the same level of tax relief as we have created for family farmers here. Perhaps this step is accompanied by a bill on the transfer of agricultural holdings which has now been submitted, since it is clear from the words of the Minister and from the text of the law that a younger person should do well to pass it on, and the younger person should please accept it if they come to an agreement; that is to say, an entire economic unit will be taken over by a farmer at least ten years younger than him from the owner arriving at his retirement age within at least five years. We could say he could do that now, so what's the holdup? It's exactly what we want to beat with this law. First of all, we know that it is questionable whether a transfer is made within a family or to someone outside the family who is not related. The law clarifies that it does not constitute an obstacle to family relatives, but if an outsider comes, it already allows this, but on condition that the younger farmer has a minimum of seven years of employment with the economic unit that would be transferred. So it is a very important step that this so-called surrender can happen to a complete outsider. Of course, we don't take the handover as yours, and I have nothing to do with it, and you have nothing to do with it. This is the rather complicated situation that the legislation is trying to translate into the language of everyday life, what to do when the handover, the settlement between the handover and the owner, the whole economic unit. I would like to emphasise that the agricultural land and all the livestock belonging to farming were to be handed over individually to a recipient under the current rules, then all economic units would have been land, machinery eligibility, such as aid, tender, obligations, contracts, supply contracts to purchasers and all others should have been clarified in a legal sense to all players, such as the purchaser, because a new player would have replaced the contract so far. From this we can already feel that this would be a complicated process, especially if we know how our soil protection law regulates the possibility of selling land. We know that a strict purchase of land to protect private property is alive after the expiry of the restrictive possibilities of the European Union's regulations. This requires a suspension procedure, a purchase order procedure at the moment. In English, I, as a seller, cannot clearly decide for the benefit of a prospective buyer that I sell you the soil if that prospective buyer is preceded by a fellow host in the order of purchase. We know perfectly well that if someone in the order of pre-emption precedes the buyer I imagined, then the previous farmer can replace the buyer I thought of. But this must be avoided, as we would like a farmer close to retirement age to pass on the entire economic system to a younger farmer. This is why a so-called one-stop-shop, one-stop-shop system has been put in place, which must be done with a completely new concept, the economic transfer agreement. This has not been the case so far, and everyone will have to learn what the economic transfer agreement means, because it will replace the rather diverse types of individual contracts I have just mentioned, either for real estate, as I mentioned, or for machinery, equipment, tools and other contracts concluded by the previous farmer to continue. This whole thing, like I said, could be settled with a contract. This includes, of course, the amendment of official licences, because many people need this for farming, and the possible transfer of contracts that I have concluded with someone, whether a purchase or a purchase contract, but I will no longer be the one who will do everything for this reason, since a new player will replace these contracts. And there are the classic cases, applications, grants, for example, agricultural-environmental applications that can be submitted today in November, the period of which is now completely up to date. [[16.20]] Anyone who enters such a system has an obligation to conclude this AKG contract for a period of time. The current call gives a period of three years, but the previous one was five years. It is not the case that I quit on the move because there are serious penalties if the farmer ends the cultivation obligation imposed in the field of agri-environmental management in the course of his or her arbitrary completion. So you can't just do that. But this economic transfer must, of course, take account of this. Therefore, I can safely say that a new element of Hungarian farming will be introduced into the territory of Hungary, which we have never known before. We've heard of these things, they're doing it somewhere, but we haven't actually practiced it. For example, in the case of agricultural land, I have said, for example, that there is an obligation to hang out, whether there is a person prior to the expected buyer, in order of pre-emption, who would claim that land; and this has a defined, very complicated process, but this is six months, a year before this is clarified in some cases. Here, with this economic transfer agreement, we replace this suspension obligation, i.e. we do not have to carry out this procedure here. This, however, may be a cause for speculation, because let's be honest, our law that comes into force in 2014, which is about buying land, had to be amended several times because speculators wanted to play the order described in the order of pre-emptions with various tricks, that I would then write that, and then I would play it, and I would sell it this way, and at the same time I would put various obligations on it, and no one else would do so. So, then, the person I was thinking of will buy the land, not the neighbor animal keeper who lived in the area, who would otherwise have had a much greater right to purchase the land. So it should also be borne in mind that by replacing the system of the suspension of agricultural land purchase process, someone may begin to speculate that I will then use this system to obtain the land to force everyone else out of this system. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the conditions must also be strict here. As I said, the farm transfer must be within five years for the retirement age, must be at least ten years a farmer; and the most serious obligation is to complete the agricultural activity. So I can't do it now that I'm handing it over in a very preferential system, and then I'm gonna shop here, buy there, and start farming again. This must be clarified that he has completed the agricultural activity. The law will also require that it is removed from the farm-rated farming system, he cannot continue this activity, he must cease the agricultural activity of the goods-producers. And, of course, the taker must also have serious obligations. As I have said, it must be at least ten years younger than the farm transfer, and this person may not be more than 60 years old, since, as we have already mentioned, here the legislator would like to see a rejuvenation of a host generation as a result, and it is obvious that the obligation of its users will, of course, be imposed on the recipient of the farm; that is, with a full legal obligation, he will have to cultivate the area of the particular crop in accordance with the relevant regulations. There is no question that in this single regulation, in this economic transfer agreement, it will be quasi-automatic, that land use will be registered in his name, in the name of the economic recipient, as if it had been purchased as a result of a suspension procedure. So, in all respects, he will be a full follower, successor to the farmer who has given birth to the holding. Of course, all the other conditions of this must be fulfilled, since, as I said, we are talking about giving it over, but of course, it may be accompanied by consideration, so you can also agree on a purchase amount; but if there is such a close domestic bond, then why should it not be a gift or, in view of the retirement period of your life, to conclude a maintenance or annuity contract with this farmer? So the legislator is trying to allow all life-like variations to be made for those affected to be able to fully transfer and take over the economy. Of course, we expect him to promote a generational change, to create economic stability, and to continue to increase the population retention power of rural areas, perhaps even to be attractive; especially the legislation that I have already mentioned, such as tax relief, which I have already said is the first year that it is valid, so I would like to strengthen the sustainability of all these regions. And, as Minister said, the entry into force is 1 January 2023, and it says that yes, it is a completely new system, and everyone must learn what this obligation is, what this entire economic transfer agreement, what it should contain, will have to do with it. But there is one more point that needs to reflect on 2023, and that is that this date is expected to be the date for the new conditions of the EU for farmers, because here we know that it is not closed here, to be more precise: serious steps have been taken, but it is not yet announced, it has not been ratified. From 1 January 2023, a new system will be introduced, including an economic transfer support scheme and a youth farmer support scheme, which we hope will be put in place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which also strengthens this option of agro-economic transfer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-100	Thank you. Our next speaker was Mr Zoltán Magyar, who presented the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-10-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, We can fully agree that we are trying to solve the problem of agricultural-generation change and to facilitate this process. And, as has already been said, this is not only a Hungarian problem, but it is typical of the whole of Europe, but we have to deal primarily with domestic relations here. I regret that this has taken so long to take action in this regard, because it has been an ongoing topic here in Parliament for quite ten years, and that agricultural-generation change should also be promoted by legislation. I would particularly like to comment on and submit amendments to those points, which, I feel, either unduly restrict the aim, achieve the goal, and in other places create opportunities, I think, to use the legislation for speculation. I don't really understand the age of 60 here, not in two ways. On the one hand, the goal is obviously to rejuvenate farming society, then too much is the age of 60. So if we want to achieve this goal, we could be braver and be able to pull it off in a younger generation. On the other hand, I think that it is not necessarily necessary to be 60 years old to think that you want to preserve the unity of your economy and pass it on at the same time. There may be a number of life situations where you want to go through this when you are under 60 years old, and you do not want to go through the current processes in a complicated way, tearing them apart, risking decades of progress, but really want to pass on your economy at the same time. In this case too, I feel that this particular age definition is unjustified. The chain of custody is entirely justified, and the primary objective is clearly that, if possible, it should remain within the family and pass on. This is, of course, the best way to live, and by all means, the legislation must also help. At the same time, while travelling the country, meeting older farmers, more and more people are saying as complaints that they cannot resolve this within the family, quite simply children and their successors do not necessarily think in agriculture, whether they have been forced abroad because of the economic situation, or whether they have chosen a completely different course, so it is appropriate to give the opportunity to solve this story outside the family. [[16.30]] At the time, however, I feel that this seven-year employment relationship is excessive in this case, and even not life-like at all, few farmers know this in a programme-like way... he could not have known that this legislation would be born, that he would have had to employ someone years earlier, or that they would have had to be in a labour law relationship in order to pass this economy on to him in a planned way within this legislative framework. So I think it's an exaggeration, and we don't really see the point. I would also be interested in the fact that, although it has been said that, for example, in the AKG and other subsidies where there are several years, up to five years of maintenance obligations, this economic transfer agreement will also be able to solve this problem, so that this has then been agreed with the bodies of the European Union, or that the forms of transfers already in existence have been incorporated into this economic treaty, or how do we imagine this to be a problem with the European Union later on, and that the owner of the former economy should also be called upon to account in the post-economic transfer situation, let us say the maintenance obligation. There was also talk here before me about the fact that I would like to promote the conditionality of the generational change in this form. Let me take this opportunity, however, that obviously this legislation can be a step forward, but there are many other things that are missing in order for a young person today to want to farm and take on this burden. This is XXI. In the first century they expect, say, rural quality of life and living conditions in their everyday life, which is very, very far away from the conditions available in today's Hungary in a big city, I am thinking of entertainment opportunities, cultural opportunities, the state of roads, community transport, health systems, social systems or the quality of education. So there are such yelling differences in the quality of rural regions in Hungary and of the more developed larger cities, which are all hindering this process. Therefore, in addition to making this legislation, much more attention should also be paid to them. Or the question of predictability. I understand that in the case of a field crop economy, this may be a viable route, but they would expect much more predictability, for example, for livestock farmers such as vegetable fruit farms, this additional possibility may not be much more attractive, since their situation is not as predictable as, say, in the case of arable crops. If I have already talked about where I feel the legislation is too strict, for example, there are no guarantees that I will give a concrete example that Lőrinc Mészáros will receive instructions that the real owner should finally get these land acquired out. I hope, at least, that this is not one of the aims of the legislation, but, for example, his options will be made very easy. So the guarantees to prevent these facilitations from being used for speculation are not included in the legislation. We would therefore like to submit amendments in this respect, and we hope that they will be supported by the majority. In conclusion, we fully agree with you on this. I do not think that this will radically increase the number of economic transfers, although I really should not be right and try to promote this as much as possible, that should be the aim of everyone. And with the amendments, once again, what we want to achieve is that where we feel that there is no need for legislation, we feel that it is unviable, it is strict, and where we miss it, and where we want to introduce more stringent ones. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, and I hope that Minister will give you the opportunity to join the debate and we will be able to respond to your arguments in response. Thank you.
u2021-11-10-102	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, The aim of the proposed legislation on the transfer of agricultural holdings is to contribute to the development of agriculture in order to strengthen economic stability and encourage intergenerational cooperation, thereby improving the sustainability and competitiveness of agriculture. The question of the renewal of agriculture has become important in Hungary and throughout the EU, creating opportunities for economic transfer. Over the last few years, the middle layer, the middle generation of farmers, has grown old, and there are fewer and fewer young farmers who can take their place. These trends are unsustainable and public intervention is therefore important, as only through continuous generation renewal can the agricultural and food economy function. This is a global problem, as shown by the figures: currently, a very significant part of world agriculture is based on family, with a share of 63 per cent in Europe, but in Asia, for example, 85 per cent. The focus on family farms is justified by the fact that more than 90 percent of the 570 million farms worldwide are managed by individuals or families and rely primarily on family work. Family farms produce more than 80 percent of the world's food. Less so in the language of the numbers, but more vividly, I refer to the old saying to the heart: if the peasant does not produce, the master will not beat. Dear House, The most important objectives of the draft law before us are to perform more effectively public tasks and to reduce the administrative burden on customers. The submission may also lead to a reduction of the burden on official administrators. In developing the concept of legislation, the results of the surveys were taken into account, according to which the main difficulty for the stakeholders consulted is administrative tasks. Therefore, the new package of laws focuses on the economic transfer between the living, which may be based on the consensus of the parties, and aims to resolve the following issues as quickly and smoothly as possible: acquisition of land ownership and use, modification of official permits, transfer of contracts, settlement of tax and social security issues, tenders, transfer of subsidies, transfer of subsidies. In this spirit, the economic transfer agreement will be introduced as a new legal institution. In order to ensure coherence between the provisions contained in the present proposal and the Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land, the following amendments are necessary: pre-emptive rights do not apply to agricultural and forestry land as defined in the economic transfer contract. As regards land use, civil succession is followed by taking over the land used by the farm transfer and the land use register should be registered as land user. With regard to the right to pre-lease, the economic transferor shall be placed at the head office of the economic transferor. Dear House, The proposal therefore serves to better fulfil public tasks and reduce the administrative burden on customers, and, as I said, also reduces the burden on public administrators. This is a very timely legislation that addresses a mass and everyday problem, as managing generational issues is essential for the future of Hungarian agriculture. Generation renewal can help to better target the demographic processes of rural areas, strengthen the market representation of producers, thereby also ensuring the supply of quality domestic products to the population. The problem of generational change is very complex, as many factors make it difficult to make a successful transition. [[16.40]] There are two problems that are largely based on individual decisions. One is that older people deal with the transfer of the economy, and the other is that young people take over the economy. This proposal offers solutions to these problems, on which I would like to mention that the transfer of an economy is, of course, not just a business but at least an emotional issue for the founders. Economic transfer with emotional issues and administrative tasks is a long process in which the first steps, the failure to make a decision on the transfer, lead to an inadequately planned transfer, thus ending with the dismemberment of the economy and the cessation of its operation and thus failure. In order to avoid this, I ask you to support this proposal, let the land take hold of it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-104	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who will present the opinion of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, I think, in order to understand this problem a little better, about which this draft law was drawn up, let us go into the data that Minister mentioned at the beginning of his speech. In 2020, KSH collected data on the production structure of 234 thousand farms and their main characteristics. It is very interesting to look at this survey to see what conclusions KSH has come to. Allow me to say these things. Since 2010, the number of farms has decreased to two thirds in Hungary. The proportion of farms mainly engaged in livestock farming is constantly decreasing and decreasing in Hungary. Compared to 2010, their ratio decreased from 46 per cent to 25 per cent. On the other hand, the proportion of those mainly engaged in crop production has increased by nearly this much. In 2020, the largest share of more than 4.8 million hectares of agricultural land was 82 percent of arable land. A large part of the agricultural area is used by farms with 5 to 300 hectares. Nearly three quarters of the areas of grapes and fruit are used by these medium-sized farms. The proportion of the area used by young farmers is the highest for orchards and the lowest for vineyards. Compared to 2010, the size of land per holding has increased in all areas of cultivation and has more than doubled in the case of grapes. Controllers aged between 40 and 64 with a higher level of agricultural education run larger farms, with an average of 109 hectares. In 2020, half of the agricultural land used was rented to farms and 45% was owned by farms. Compared to 2010, the share of own land increased in more than 300 hectares for farmers and decreased for smaller areas. Here, allow me to say that this does not mean the family farms, since they are growing more than 300 hectares. Land ownership is available to individual farms, among which young farmers are renting more land. As age progresses, of course, the proportion of own-owned areas increases. Managers of livestock farms have a higher degree of vocational training, 32% have at least secondary agricultural education, with only a 19-percent ratio for the managers of crop farms. Based on the preliminary processing of the questionnaire data, in 2020 the proportion of managers under the age of 40 was only 10 per cent. I think you mentioned that, Minister. As regards farm management, it has been observed since 2010 that the age of managers has increased, and the percentage of farmers under 65 has decreased from 72% to 65%. Here, let me also give you some interesting information, which is very important that we take a little more care of it. The proportion of female managers was higher in the older age group, 30% of farmers aged at least 65 years are women, and perhaps more attention should be paid to liking rural life, and more should be paid to women in this area, as well as to farms themselves. Female managers have a lower level of agricultural education, 18 percent had at least secondary education, compared to 31 percent of men. In 2020, half of the economic managers are farmers 40 years of age or older, based on practical experience. A positive change is the increase in agricultural education rates since 2010. Younger economic managers have a higher proportion of professional qualifications than older farmers. The proportion of those with higher agricultural education is already 60 per cent for holdings with the highest production value. In 2020, more than 97 thousand permanent, 84 thousand temporary and 33 thousand non-economic workers worked on farms. Here will be a very interesting figure, in the case of temporary workers working in agriculture, the proportion of women is higher, 46 percent than among permanent employees. That's a very interesting piece of data. Most farmers do not know or have not thought about what is happening to their economy in the coming years, especially interesting is that this is 51 percent for farmers over 65 years of age. It's a very, very bad data, it's very important to pay attention to it. Farmers who are already planning to transfer control think about this within the family, of course. And a little bit about the XXI. What this survey contains about the century. Most often, the computer used for banking is used by farmers, each digital device used by younger controllers is the most commonly used tool for precision management, and 5.3 percent of farms do this by using or using their own device, or most people plan to use it. Most farmers do not use precision tools because they think they do not need them during production. The frequency of mention varies across age groups. In the second place, young farmers identified a high price for digital devices as the biggest problem, while farmers aged 40 and over identified a lack of knowledge as to why they did not use them. A consultant is employed by 15 percent of the farms, with younger managers more often than average, and 22 percent. With higher agricultural skills, the proportion of farmers who are informed by companies and consultants increases. I loved reading this survey because it contains very interesting data, and it highlights what is the biggest problem now when we talk about how to achieve a generational shift in the countryside and in the economies, but the problem is much more complex than just looking at this survey. My fellow Member, Mr Font, said that it is very important to talk about how the population-preservation power of the region will develop in the coming years. I have repeatedly said in Parliament that there is a survey by the County City Association several years ago, and the survey shows that over the next few decades, this is about fifty years, 400-450 settlements will disappear in Hungary. They write that these settlements are almost irretrievable. Now they see no way to stop this process, we are talking about 3,200 settlements in Hungary, which now exists, and this is a very high rate, if you look at this survey. My fellow Member said that we might be able to make young people move back to the countryside, not only if we look at agricultural activities. [[16.50]] What has developed in recent years, we also see a regrouping that maybe a little more people are moving back to the country. There is only one reason for this: very high property prices that prevent them from getting or building apartments in large cities. This is what I see as the only reason young people prefer to buy or build real estate in rural, smaller settlements. It's very important that it's not the only thing that's causing them to move back to the country. And how can you make young people like it, and how can this generation change be solved? I think that not only in Hungary, but in European countries, all the other states are looking for the answer to how this could be resolved, and we may not be able to answer it, because if we say that rural life, we always think that it is a very tough, very difficult way of life that one wants to deal with either livestock or crop production in this sector. How can we do this better with what laws? My fellow Member, Jobbikos, said that it is not enough to make laws for this, but also to create living conditions in the countryside that are worth it for young people to settle there and stay there. This not only involves keeping agricultural businesses attractive for generations, but also providing rural life with the same perspectives or opportunities that we get in a big city: adequate education, health care, road network and so on. In connection with the law and Sándor Font said: "It is very interesting for me to have a little easier access to this land, because today it is very difficult to get to the ground in Hungary. Let me give you one example: if you want to buy an area of 0.1 or 0.2 hectares in an area outside, it's a complicated process to begin with. However, the seller agrees with the buyer and then the contract is written; the municipality must be suspended because neighbouring landowners have the right to pre-empt. However, the municipality has 8 days to suspend it, it has to be out for 60 days, and then, if no one applies, better case scenario, then the municipality has 8 days to inform the seller that the operation is in order. This does not mean that the sale has now been made, but that it must be sent to the Chamber of Agriculture, and then the Chamber of Agriculture will approve that the sale at that price is now being made at a lower price, or is this higher or even accepted at all. And as far as I'm concerned, if the Chamber of Agriculture approved it, then the sale could happen, but if not, then the whole process can start all over again. So it's gonna take up to 1-1,5-2 years for a person to be able to buy such a certain area, which could mean that the seller is afraid that the buyer will even be able to withstand that much. The buyer also needs great patience to get even to the point of buying such a small, minimal area. We may also say that it is okay to defend land ownership itself, but it may be a little over-regulated in such cases. But I do not know that if we make a concession here, there will be no reason for this abuse, that we have seen this as an example, that if the law can be avoided and small sideways can be obtained, the Hungarian people will take advantage of it. This amendment may not be quite right. On 23 March 2021, Mr Orbán Balázs, Secretary of State, admitted that the government does not put too much effort into preparing decisions; they prefer to try the decisions made in practice and then either succeed or not. We have seen a great deal of it as a motion for self-representation very soon, very important laws, very quickly tricked into the walls of Parliament, and then in practice it turns out that it was not so good, and that it would be returned quickly, or not so quickly, but in a six-month or a year's time before the House, and then it should be amended. We've seen this a lot in the past few days. We can ask a lot of questions about this: this law is enough, or it is just a step to make the generation change happen. I think that we are talking about a much more complex problem, and there is much more that the government would need to change to make rural life attractive and to deal with these economies themselves. And of course, you might have to deal more with these entrepreneurs themselves, because you can see from these surveys that these entrepreneurs themselves don't know in many cases, because they don't even think about what's ahead of them, that they should be passing on this economy sometime. We may be talking about an extremely well-functioning economy, and suddenly we get to the point where overnight we get to the point where there's no heir or no one else to carry it on. Before that, I think that the government should have a lot of things. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to make sure that this problem is resolved. Thank you very much, Mr President, and perhaps I will continue in my next comment. Thank you.
u2021-11-10-106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who was before me, asked me a question, and I think that this is the most important issue in the debate on the current bill, that this law was enough to start a generational change. If you're asking for my short answer, if you're curious at all, then my short answer is no. If I want to explain it longer, there will be a principle side to this, and obviously I will have concrete practical questions about the bill. There is no doubt that the purpose of the bill before us is to facilitate the transfer of farms created in the field and forestry activities. However, there is a question as to how the proposal before us will help preserve the diversity of agriculture, its adaptability and the efficiency and functioning of the economies. I don't think it's entirely obvious to you how the law is going to help you. However, there is no doubt about it, and perhaps this should also be the place of praise here, that the agricultural government that left in 2022, with this bill, has reached some sort of milestone in the transformation of the Hungarian agriculture. And we can't even say that the Orbán government's ministries are undergoing a complete dilettantism to transform the sector, but we admit that it is visible and understandable that the hand of certain interest circles is a mark on the current conditions. However, it is certain that the agricultural government in the sector and everyone will know what I am talking about, looking at the fidesz shadow government, Lazarus in the lead and their allies, so the governing parties are already struggling with a significant lack of kader and caderdeficit in the field of agriculture. Because it's been a long two decades, and I'm not saying anything new, and we're seeing the same people and faces in the lead position, and I'm afraid it wouldn't hurt to start some kind of generational change in the ruling parties. And what is terrible is that this proposal is coming before us, before this House, at a time when the price of food increases more than inflation in 12 months, but it is not low; it comes at a time when the cost of production is skyrocketing as a result of the energy crisis, and in many cases production itself becomes uncertain because of the record price of fuel prices. And of course, the reason is that if we now ask the great psychic, the kind leader, Viktor Orbán, then Brussels, what else. Of course, farmers have a completely different opinion on this. And we are getting to the point that even though the Hungarian farmer can produce the food material, even though it is made into a good quality food, food businesses will not be able to deliver it to the shops, because there will simply be no fuel, or there will be no driver, and there will be a lack of drivers. [[Dr. István Nagy: This is England...]] [[17.00]] Dear House, I am sure that these factors are as important as the specific bill before us. The bill may, of course, be a good basis for the future, but in its present form, it is almost unacceptable, and I would like to explain the reasons for this now. There is no doubt that if, after the last 12 years, after three thirds of the two-thirds of the time, they have not been able to carry out the renewal of the agricultural generation from a professional perspective, then it is not certain that they will succeed in a legally and administrative way. I appreciate that, but I'm afraid that won't be enough. For example, they could have facilitated generation renewal by supplying young farmers with state land, but unfortunately, instead, this fell into the hands of the NER-close oligarchs and the moonyard. This is so true, and the horse's foot is so out in this case, I could say that we can see the devil's hoofy feet, his hairy hands, that the background of the auctions or rather of the scams is often told by József Ángyán regularly and broken down into counties; obviously you read it with interest. [[Dr. István Nagy: Wrong! It's all a lie!]] Interesting information about Ángyán, however, is that according to the former State Secretary, Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz government could only need him because in the competition for power they needed the rural votes, which only he could provide for Fidesz. [[Dr. István Nagy: Don't be ridiculous.]] So now let's say that Viktor Orbán fooled him, too, in order to gain power. And perhaps you could have facilitated the generation change, Minister, gentlemen, by not thinking about changing populations in the dying rural settlements, but of supporting young people living in the area over the last ten years, but we know very well that this is not what they have done. What we can now see is the youth whose family has been engaged in agriculture for two or three generations. [[István Horváth intervenes.]] She's moving into town to work. I understand that you have a separate opinion, press a button, and you can tell me, okay? If it bothers you that the opposition has a voice, and I think you should find yourself a place in agriculture, hogging is a very calm task. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] So we were just saying...
u2021-11-10-108	Fellow Members! Perhaps we should listen to the lead speaker, with all due respect.
u2021-11-10-109	The fact that he is moving from the young country into the city because he wants to work, and the urban families are moving out to the countryside for whatever reason, so it would be a very good thing in itself, but the love of the land and the knowledge of agriculture will disappear from the majority of rural settlements. We know very well that the current situation cannot really be addressed with either the village rehabilitation program or the village CSOK. And that is a direct drama and disprove, if it is not so, that the domestic young farmer does not regularly land around his settlement, because there the local landlords or landlords associated with Fidesz have already bought everything. [[Alexander Font: The whole country!]] This simply makes the countryside unlivable for young farmers. But let us go back to the generational renewal, because that is what this is about, and I see that you are happy about it, Minister. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned a lot of numbers before me, and really, knowing the preliminary results of the agricultural census, we can get a rather devastating picture of the Hungarian agricultural corpus today. Allow me not to repeat the numbers of my fellow Member before me, perhaps I should just add that the current NER system's agricultural support policy is best shown by the figure that, according to its main activity, two thirds of the farms are now mainly concerned with crop production, which is a terrible and significant change compared to the 2010s, since at that time the proportion of livestock farming and crop production was 46 per cent and 41 per cent. So the Fidesz lords realized that it was enough to get all the land on the border, and there and there to deal with some kind of crop, they would receive the aid, and they would not have to take on the difficulties associated with livestock farming. With this production lineup, however, generation renewal will be impossible. I believe that generation renewal should not only consist in the passing of the baton to his son by the elderly farmer, as we have heard, otherwise, from many pro-government speakers, thus ensuring the survival of the family name. I believe that this should be promoted by the fact that as many new, young farmers under 40 will find their calculation in the countryside. And now, allow me to make some specific comments on the bill. The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. I do not believe that the concept of the recipient of the farm and the definition of another working relationship are acceptable. The recipient of the holding may be a person under the age of 60 who is at least 10 years younger than the farm transferor. Please determine the maximum age here for 50 years, or at least this would be the lucky one. This is also important because if we mark 60 years, then the law does nothing but preserve the current state, taking into account the 10th anniversary. The maximum period of 50 years of cooperation provided for in Section 2 shall also apply. In addition, it may be necessary to clarify what other employment relationships mean, what other employment relationships should represent in the life of the undertaking. Is it enough that someone has a $100,000 contract in a company of hundreds of millions to take over the economy? Article 4 The economic transferor undertakes not to engage in any new activity in relation to its activity in the holding defined in the contract of economic transfer, as recorded in the food chain monitoring information system, and to cease its activities related to the holding after the transfer of ownership of the holding. This may have been included in the proposal because the aim of economic transfer is to ensure that the economic transferor completes its activities and does not engage in new agricultural and forestry activities. However, it is also necessary to make an important clarification here to ensure that the economic transferor is not able to carry out any agricultural activity, and this would need to be settled or provided with a TEÁOR classification. Article 10 §2 is likely to be necessary, at least according to the justification, because the value of an economy is not only given by the individual assets, but also by the knowledge and relationship system of the farmer. Therefore, in order for the generation change to succeed, the law creates the conditions for a longer cooperation between the economic transferor and the economic transferor to enable the transfer of knowledge of the economic transferor, but if, during the duration of the economic transfer cooperation, the economic transferor is personally involved in the operation of the economy, there is no real economic transfer. The question here is, if the economy is personally involved in the operation of the economy, will it have the right to sign? Because if the answer to my question now is yes, then indeed there is no transfer of the economy in any way. Article 12 Paragraph 1 states that the contract on the transfer of the holding is approved by an agricultural administration. My question in this regard is that this Chamber of Agriculture will take place, and which organ will take care of it there. Also the 12th. In the case of § 61, the general justification and the legislation should be brought into line, because while the legislation defined the decision in 60 days, the justification is only 30 days away. Article 16 is replaced by the following: The Government is authorised to regulate the rules relating to the procedure of the agricultural administrative body in a regulation. When are you planning to make the detailed rules mentioned in the paragraph? Because this draft was only clearly communicated, focused on economic transfer and generational renewal. I know, and I know, but the devil is in the details. Article 17 is replaced by the following: The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. It is only important that the proposals of the current opposition be incorporated into the future bill by Jobbik, because in 2022, after the elections, there will be a change of government, and you should be prepared for that. We would be pleased if this bill could be announced on the basis of a consensus agreement, and we are partners. And, obviously, we promise that the results of the generation renewal under our governance will be regularly reported by the reigning agricultural minister. Thank you so much for listening. I look forward to Minister's reply. Thank you. [[17.10]]
u2021-11-10-110	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-10-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Act on Economic Transfer is a long-awaited very important law linked to the agricultural-generation change. The Green Party of LMP Hungary therefore attaches special importance to the law, but I must state from the outset that we are not satisfied with the draft law. I will talk about the reasons for this in detail, but first I must explain how serious and urgent it is to promote a generational change and to implement a policy which is radically different from that of the current government in the field of agriculture. Over the past decades, there have been two interrelated, partly-related, extremely worrying processes in the Hungarian economy. One is a significant reduction in the number of farms and the other is the ageing of farmers. The two processes, together with other worrying sociological data, present a very chilling vision of the future. I cannot talk about this problem without mentioning Professor József Ángyán, who was the State Secretary of the Fidesz-KDNP government not so long ago. In 2006, even Fidesz was expecting the help of Professor Ángyán, who was a significant player in Fidesz's ability to address rural farming. In 2010, when Fidesz still had an election programme, you seemed to be aware of the worrying processes and wish to deal with them. Then it was very soon proved during their governance that they were only expecting support from the farming community in order to gain power, in fact, they didn't even think about answering the basic problems in the countryside, or they couldn't, if they had thought about it. Today, the Hungarian economy knows that you have learned that family farming is primarily about the enrichment of your own families. The result of your agricultural policy is that Hungary's agriculture is slowly only made up of latifundiums, where the fief of NER is being enriched by everything. The NER partners were stuffed with land, and economies of the size developed, which did not even exist in feudal Hungary. Today's NER land barons farm larger estates than the former Counts Széchenyi and Batthyányi or Barons Wesselényi. But the difference between your land lords and your former lords is that they still considered the fate of the country important, while you only care about your own enrichment, the privateization of public money. It's sad to have to say things like that. It joins this agricultural policy, as EU funds are used to an extraordinary extent. With this support, you could have raised the country's farming community, put it in position, but you didn't. Billionaire subsidies were distributed to the previously undeserved NER barons, while the peasantry was forgotten, they were only being exploited so that they could buy their land as quickly and as cheaply as possible. This is illustrated by the fact that over 90 percent of the resources of the common agricultural policy have reached the highest 10% of farmers. If we look at this number, I think it's very difficult to deny what I've started to mention here. In this way, posterity will not give you the respect worthy of the lords who once acted like patriots. You will be remembered by the posterity for your innumerable sins, one of which is ground-privatization and land concentration, the impossibility of peasantry. Let us see in figures what the agricultural policy of Fidesz serving NER barons has caused our nation, and I will now give you figures: in 2010, 525 thousand individual farms were registered, with only 270 thousand by 2020, almost half. During their government, during the unprecedented abundance of support, nearly half of the farming population lost their country. Today, only 12 percent of the farming population is under 40 years of age, and only 30 thousand farmers under 40 years of age live in this country. This is only 3 thousand percent of our society. Should this 3 000 farmers ensure the country's food in the long term? Should we expect this 30,000 people to provide this country with sufficient and good quality food in the face of climate change and the fewer, but even more severe, ecological crises? If your policy continues, what is the assurance that by 2050, when half of our country can become a desert, you will be able to cultivate the land, the living soil that your barons are now gutting, perhaps forever ruining it with the methods of industrial farming? While you, according to your propaganda messages, are building world-class agro-higher education at the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, the reality is that only 6 percent of the increasingly shrinking Hungarian economy has a professional higher education degree. That means 16,000 people. The Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of MATE, in September 2021 244 students were admitted to several training places, including 66 horse farmers and horse sports organizers. The needs of Hungarian agriculture cannot be met by higher education, let alone providing world-class training. Of course, this tragic number is not surprising, and it is truly tragic, because what perspective does it offer to young people in Hungary that they can be the last members of the dying Hungarian farming society, where their work is needed only as the governor of the lords of the NER barons? Where do you think this process leads? They are trying to answer this truly burning problem with this draft law, and we believe that they have failed, because they have no concept of what to do, or, more specifically, their concept is exclusively to facilitate the robbery of the land, to steal theft, theft of lords, castles and hunting mansions. If that were not the case, they might have remembered that economic transfer should be encouraged very, very actively in order to make it possible for thousands of experienced and skilled young people to appear in agriculture each year. It's a question of whether there is such a reserve in our nation at all. The task would be to transfer at least 80,000 farmers over 65 years of age to the younger generation in the next ten years, and then 160 thousand farmers, today 40-65, will hand over their holdings to another younger generation in the next 20 years, until 2050. At this time and only then, with 8,000 new entrants a year, there is a chance to maintain the size of today's farming society. Eight thousand young people a year. How many people come out of agro-higher education? I think I've said a thousand times a year. And how much of them will they really be after that, how much of them will they be later farmers? Maybe it's just a couple hundred. We can see the scale of the task as compared to trends, yet the draft law does not say a word about encouraging economic transfer. There is no mention of State-supported loans and state loan guarantees to support the transfer of the economy. There is no mention of how EU resources for rural development, such as initial support for young farmers or support for economic transfer in other Member States, can be linked to economic transfer. It is important to note that the transfer of the economy between close relatives in today's legal framework does not have any difficulties, so the draft law would have added value in extending the possibility of economic transfer to non-family members. However, instead of encouraging the transfer, the draft law limits the circumstances of the transfer so strictly, which is almost unimaginable for the Hungarian self-employed family labour, seasonal labour-based farms. The draft law stipulates that the recipient of the holding must have a working relationship with the transferor for at least 7 years, who may otherwise conclude a further 5 years of cooperation in the transfer contract. [[17.20]] This is already excluded for a significant part of today's Hungarian economy, while for a smaller section it means that the recipient is first bound to a clot for 7-12 years. This in itself precludes the law from being successful. On the one hand, while the draft law makes life-like cases of economic transfer impossible, it opens completely incomprehensible loopholes elsewhere. An example of this is the possibility of a completely atypical, indefinite lease, which is completely contrary to land traffic regulations. As a deterrent example, the draft law is 15 years old. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 opens an institutionalised loophole to exempt from the obligation to repay the aid. Of course, we are submitting amendments to the draft law to at least correct these most obvious regulatory errors or to close institutionalised loopholes, but we fear that this alone will not be enough. In his ambition level, this law is so far from what is desired, that our view is that it does not help, but is already counterproductive. I would like to ask the Minister, in view of the importance of this subject, to withdraw this draft law, which is not well thought out, following the Commission's discussions. It's too much trouble, too much trouble, so we might lose more years because the Parliament is adopting a bad law. Minister, it is worth working on this bill. Prepare a comprehensive concept to get at least close to the 8,000 annual economic transfers, which is necessary for the long-term survival of our nation, and for the benefit of our nation, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian farmer, should not be mass-leaving and dying as a result of a climate and ecological crisis. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-10-112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. My fellow Members, I now give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-11-10-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not speaking to you so much as to those who might look into it, to listen to the debate of the agricultural laws that are taking place here this afternoon, and to those who will read into the minutes. I would like to appease their surprise at the fact that the Dialogue led by DK, MSZP and Szabó Timea, who otherwise does not participate in the debate, has not yet been spoken in any part of the agricultural law, and it is amazing that many people do not understand what we believe is very serious when presenting a law aimed at the renewal of the agricultural economy and rejuvenating farming society. For them, I would like to point out that DK, MSZP and Dialogue did not even delegate members to the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture in 2018. For four years, they have no idea what's going on in Parliament's Committee on Agriculture. After that, no one is surprised that they raise completely life-stranger, false problems that are not typical of the Hungarian countryside, and they are trying to find dramatic answers to them, trying to discredit the work of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and the work of the government. I'd like to reassure everyone. Those living in the countryside and having some connection with agriculture know precisely that these are false problems, are not true, and the answers to them that provoke society are only for their annoyance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-114	Thank you. I also give the floor for two minutes to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Font, that I think that I was rather restrained, talking about the problem, what is wrong with the countryside today. The other is why we don't have a member on the Agriculture Committee. Indeed, because there is so little space for the opposition, and it must be within the opposition... [[Alexander Font: That's not true! The Jobbik has delegated three to the opposition!]] Okay, Congressman, the composition of each committee...
u2021-11-10-116	Congressman Font.
u2021-11-10-117	If you look at it, I've listened to it, let me finish, and you listen to us. It's not an escape. [[Sándor Font: Yes, yes!]] Regardless of whether we do not have a member of the committee or have fewer members, we are still following up on their work, the minutes are already available. Believe me, even though I'm a member of the Legislative Committee and of the Enterprise Development Committee, I'm following up on the People's Welfare Committee, even if we prepare for law, the work of the Agriculture Committee. It doesn't depend on us not being able to comment on a law. You're saying that every single thing we've drawn attention to would be a fake problem: I think I can say that's not true. How they can make a living from agriculture in the countryside, how we can make agriculture attractive, and how we can make rural life itself attractive, is a fundamental issue. I live in the country, too, in a small town. I know what is causing young people to suffer today and why they do not want to choose this way of life, and we want to find a solution together. Well, don't get rid of the good intentions in every case. It's not true that we always want bad things and see things wrong. That's not true, Congressman. The fact that rural life is attractive and good to be there is important, and I also wish my children to stay there, because I like living in the countryside, and I want them to stay. It's a common goal, for you and for us. Don't push that away from us, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-118	Thank you. Our next two-minute speaker is Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK.
u2021-11-10-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Font, The truth is, I was a little surprised by your two-minute comment. You are calling on the opposition that we have no insight into the work of a committee because the opposition is not sitting on that committee. I'd just like to quietly remind you of the new scandal. You're on the police and defence committee. One of your representatives is the president, and apparently you don't have a shot at what can or can't be done there. I wish Lajos Kósa well and good health from here. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] But once you can get a number from someone, [[Sándor Font: The whole speech does not belong here!]] That you're aware of [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The fact that he's running the committee at all that he's running or what's going on there, that's exactly your representative. You say that we are bringing up false problems, and we are trying to give dramatic answers to them, and we need to ask the countryside about it. Congressmen, I'm asking you to step out of the airplanes, get out of the luxury cars, go down to the countryside, even to Debrecen, Long Court, and see how people live there. [[Sándor Farkas: Are you talking to me?]] Yeah, I'm telling you, because you probably don't have a shot at how people live in a small rural settlement. [[István Horváth: Don't we have a shot?]] And how they actually wave at what land goes where. So it's a shame what you're doing! Thank God this period is over, we'll forget it. There will be a very dark fly dirt on the pages of Hungary's history book, which you will mark, but we will also erase you from the history books. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-120	Before I make a further two-minute comment, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what the law is about and to consider the comments made by my fellow Member Font on the functioning of the Parliament next time. Congressman Sándor Farkas, the representative of Fidesz, has also applied for two minutes. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-10-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Allow me to say that I was surprised at these speeches we heard from the left this afternoon. I dare say this because it is not always appropriate to refer to my age, but I have been engaged in agriculture in a small village since 1974. Twenty-two settlements belong to my constituency. What Congressman Varga has put forward here, I strongly reject it, because it has nothing to do with the law. Mooding, he took advantage of this opportunity to say it within the framework of this law; and secondly, because the countryside is in a much better position. People in the country know better than you do what they want. Much better, and then the accountability won't be 2022, but someday in 2040, when you're off the face of the earth. Mr President, by what you have said, you are violating the countryside, insulting farmers, insulting all people working in agriculture. You have ignored these people, who are constantly working every day to give you, if you go into Spar or any store, proper food. You're ignoring him, you're ignoring these people. It's outrageous, believe me. [[17 .30]] As a countryman, as a countryman, I live there with all the farmers and peasants we're proud to be peasants, and we openly agree to sit here as peasants in this Parliament, you know? From the origins of my family and the origins of my own work. So I challenge this on behalf of my fellow Members. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-10-122	I am also speaking for two minutes to Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK.
u2021-11-10-123	Thank you very much. The truth is, this whole situation is becoming tragic. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] You don't have to explain it to me, my grandfather. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In a farmhouse in the country, he was a peasant, walking around in his Rama boots and wearing an apron. So if anyone is, then I know what it's like to have a farmhouse that's still reed-covered. The other one you're talking about is sad enough to forget what it's like to be in the country. Yeah. It doesn't mean that you live there, it means that you feel those people's cuddly feelings. How many times have you asked your boss why they're stealing the land? How many times have you asked your boss why you're creating this situation? How many times have you asked your boss why the fuel costs are so high? How many times have you asked your boss how is it that most of the Transdanubia has gone into Lőrinc Mészáros' pocket? How many times have you asked me that? Because if you don't, you're not a countryman, you're a puppet of Viktor Orbán himself. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-10-124	Ladies and gentlemen, With all due respect, someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see that. The general debate is closed. I respectfully ask the Minister if he wishes to respond. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-10-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, What happened was what I was hoping we could avoid. But there is a great truth in that, because the earth is always a defining question, let's face it, it was always a matter of anger. I grew up in a family where it always made a living. I swear to you, when the relatives, family members, friends, neighbors arrived, in the first five minutes, they asked each other how you were doing, and after five minutes, the only question was, how did the lawyer arrange the wretched land, who sold it to, who could get it from, and bought it again, instead of the other one? This is entirely part of Hungarian agriculture, it is in every peasant culture, and there is no country in the world where peasants do not talk about the land issue among themselves. I'll tell you why. 'Cause it's never gonna happen again. It's always gonna be less. When we build a highway, when we develop a city, when new industrial development comes or whatever, it always gets less. The new generation is coming, who would like to, of course, with the work of a lifetime ahead of it, it's natural that it's moving forward. The new generation always needs space, so it's always an emotional and emotional issue, and that's okay. What we need to do is make sure that the least possible interference is that people can make that decision. Do you know why there is a strict land law in Hungary? Erzsie's apologies, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet has suggested how difficult it is to go through with the whole process. He had to be protected! When we came to power and government, we were confronted with the fact that Transdanubia was almost to the Danube with a pocket contract. We had to get it back. It could not be allowed to go on its natural path, it had to protect the Hungarian soil. Switching to political status, because, of course, the election is coming, and the least we can do here is legislate, because, by the way, we should acknowledge that there is finally a government that has recognized it, which has used energy to legislate on how the issue of generation change should happen. We are here in the process, which is exactly what the economy requires. The election comes, of course, you have to campaign, and then you get those texts. But let's get this straight. Hungary has the strictest funding for the allocation of EU aid. We'll give you 1,200 acres of land. It's paid all the time in every other country, zero in our country. Do you understand? 300 hectares is the size of a family, a man's land. If you rent it up to 1,200 acres for crop production, you can't get anything after that. If you're a farmer, up to 1,800 hectares. It's the strictest. When it's washed together, and it's a very cunning thing, because they're washing the first pillar and second pillar legs of EU funds together, and they say that, of course, because that's what's taking the rest, 10 percent is taking the rest. But why? Because EU funds are used for animal husbandry investments, economic development, and the two are washed together. You can't do that! If we divide this into two, it will immediately become clear that it is absolutely all right and that there is one of the strictest regulatory ways of allocating EU aid in Hungary. If we completely break down political robes, and I recommend it, because, after all, we have to talk about the law, then all the comments were about the following, and that is very true and very right. Living in the country, living from agriculture, doing peasant activity, farming is not just a profession, it is not just a profession, it is a way of life, it is a way of life. What's the problem? The problem is that there has been a drastic intervention in this way of life, a way of life, and it is very difficult for us to recover from it, because in Communist times, when peasants were taken away from the peasants, and the peasants were beaten into the act, they ceased to be masters. Everyone was running their kids wherever they could because they couldn't make a living. They turned the peasant into an employee. This is a change in the level of peasantry, culture, the wounds of which we still bear today. That's exactly what all our troubles are about. We've given up the way of life. Sure. Which kid wants to go and shovel pig shit every morning, that's the main question, if that's not what you're born into? It is not like Austria, who can live their lives in a more fortunate historical constellation. 'Cause what's happening there? Generation by generation, one generation hands it over to another, and each adds the plus to how you can live and farm. Each generation adds, and there is always in the family which child will carry on and how they can make a living. This is a completely different question, and that is why it cannot be considered that there will be more entertainment in the city, more discotheques, more McDonald, and it could be classified, because for him the way of life is acceptable and viable, then he goes in at night or solves this question because it is natural. I was also, wonderful little villages, Viehofen, Zagging, 80-90 houses in a settlement, except for one, everyone has a pig holder, there is a cow, because the milk has to be delivered to other people. It works brilliantly, because everyone has a nice division of tasks among themselves. That's what we miss, because it was an historic intervention, and then I'll continue, because unfortunately, it's not over. The first allocation of EU funds, the first source of the common agricultural policy. The socialist government at the time made the very big mistake of not spending 60% of the aid on economic development, but on social investments. It's a huge mistake. All the Eastern European economies, especially the Poles, passed by. Now, when we're talking about a generation change and a transfer of economics, here's what we need to ask you, let me ask you. The young man who is behind his father today, sitting at the family table, over the last thirty years at Sunday's family lunch, have you heard any more sobs, or have you heard more of the word of pride? Here's the problem, because he listened to the sock, the complaint, the cry that it wasn't good, it wasn't good, it was little, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. You think these historical crimes can be worked out in a decade? Then I'll tell you what we've done in a decade or just during my ministry, which has come in this period. If you look at it, the Hungarian government has made a historic decision by increasing the rate of national co-financing of the common agricultural policy from 17.5 percent to 80 percent, tripled the resources that we can provide for rural investments. 4265 billion forints. It's three times more than it was before. We will be able to renew the infrastructure, the production medium that is good for a young person, because it is true, we need techniques, precision tools, technological developments, because young people can think about it, physical labor relief, predictability, security. [[17.40]] This HUF 4265 billion is a huge opportunity to go forward, it is very, very necessary. They're all steps that are infinitely important to be. If you look at it, because it is not just this law that you have to look at what a government, the Hungarian village, is doing, how much the life support is, how much our CSOK system creates, creates opportunities for young people. But here's the counterexample of how difficult and how much social dialogue is needed: you listened when the bell in Balatonberény is banned, and then the signature comes for the rooster word, that it must also be banned, and the rooster must be cut off or cut off. These are also us, us, the Hungarian reality. So we really have to balance it, and we have to put all the political colors aside here because we have a very important task: we have an inheritance from our grandchildren, and we have to keep this heritage for them in agricultural land, farming, food production, everything, because we have to do this in advance, we have to take it to ensure that they have good living conditions and quality. It's a great story. It's absolutely important that it can be done. Mr. Hungarian Congressman said that predictability. Yeah, we got it. But let me tell you, for the first time in Europe, we did the four-pillar security system. However, the last crisis insurance company is precisely about the current animal husbandry situation, when there is a 30 percent reduction in sales in a livestock company, the balancing system is immediately in place and we are able to operate. We were thinking ahead, like we felt it. We have him first in Europe, we introduced him first. So we consciously, systematically build the whole system. That this law can be abused for speculation purposes, I would like to point out that the law is about how it can be passed within a family, and especially through generations. That's exactly what we're trying to do, transfer within the family. Why? 'Cause the least we can do is let the guy who's in IT stand behind the cows tomorrow or go to the pig farm and start working in agriculture. It might start a startup business, because it's going to come up with a good idea, something new that we need in the world, and it's going to be successful, but it's not going to continue with the traditional type of agriculture. But we have a much better chance that the child behind his father will tell me that I'm taking over my father's economy because I can see a fantasy in it because of increased support opportunities, increased living security, increased quality of rural infrastructure that should be. Yes, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that it is a tough life. Hell, yeah, he's tough. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély nods.]] This is what we need to be able to attract action, one step at a time, because otherwise they won't choose, because the city is always flying more colourful balloons, there's always eight hours of work in the city, 13-14 months' wages and bonuses and bonuses. And we have to get up on the holy day of Christmas and feed the cattle, that's as simple as that, 40 degrees plus and minus, and there's no, there's no reward. But we love this because we are independent, we are independent, we are farmers, we know what our creation means, we know what forces are in it, what forces are in it, and we control them, but we are also vulnerable to everything, and we know how much dust we are in the whole universe compared to those forces. But it is the most wonderful profession, the most wonderful way of life to be a farmer, and I therefore believe that all the legislative amendments that we are doing, what we are bringing to this House, and what we want to do, will be attractive to young people. Is the law enough to change generations? Good question, my dear fellow Member. No. But that way, it is. To create the frames that we're going to step on, as they begin, one with the other. I have to say, we're going to modify it several times. It's not a coincidence that we give ourselves time. I, who am there on several large forums a week, and I talk to farmers, always talked about it, and I started with the amazing thing when this issue came up, and I asked the farmers that they already had a will, so put up your hand, who has a will. And they were shocked, and they had to say that if he wanted to hand it over safely, he would have to have a will and it could be classified. Until once a respectable farmer raised his hand and humiliated me very much. You asked me this question: why do you want me to die, son? I'd like to enjoy the results of my child's handiwork. It had a huge effect on me. Yeah, he humiliated me, he was right. Why can't farmers retire? This, which we have put before you, creates the framework for this, how we can safely tell the child who wants the two, the three, the one, the four that we have to take, then you take it. And they come to a raise, which they absolutely rightly miss, and the banking condition comes, and all the other issues that come with the support leg of the common agricultural policy, are all here, because we do not want to call it exactly young farmers' support, but we will call it economic start-up support, and we are hoping to give money and resources to young people so that they can start with it. But I don't want to limit it to 25 years, 30 years, because he might start at 35 or 40. So we need a start-up grant. I consider it, and I accept that we don't even have to tie it down to how old it can come into effect. Let this be a matter of family agreement. So I'm open to it, and we're trying it now. Let's try to rule out all the dexterity that it really serves the purpose of making a decision because he may be sick, because he is tired, anything can happen and he wants to pass it on, so let's not tie it to age, but let's make it possible to do this regardless of age. The rate of crop production has fallen from its livestock production. It's a serious problem. It's not a big problem. If we look at it, it's all the same in the world. And in order to make this right, let me give you just one example, and then you'll decide whether or not we're on the right track. Last autumn, in the middle of the Covid epidemic, in October we launched an application entitled Modernization and Development of Farming Plants with HUF 50 billion. We thought there was Covid, and this HUF 50 billion was enough. The demand came to HUF 360 billion, so the farmers multiplied what we wanted. There's a degree of trust and strength in them that they want to develop, and here comes the fact that livestock can finally get better. And, of course, the decision is to support all submitted and valid applications. So this can achieve a major change in the whole proportion, and in the rural renewal, which is infinitely important for them to succeed, the technological development that is in the absence of livestock farming, we can now make up for all the delays that we have had to face, since a government does not start from zero, it has an inheritance, and it has to solve the recovery of the things that have been done before it, or its problems. Congressman Varga also raised the question of who would approve the treaty. Of course, government agencies will approve each such contract. I would also like to say to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck that there are MATE numbers, which are not all right. Tell the person who made it not to give you the numbers of an arm, a major, but to follow up on at least one phone call and ask how many times that number has to work. After all, it is perfectly fine and I accept that yes, your contribution has proved precisely that it is necessary to renew the agricultural university, that it is necessary to renew the agricultural-higher education, because we need new information, it is infinitely important, without success, because we see how important it is to be able to meet the natural challenges, how important it is to be able to meet the societal challenges, it is all the knowledge that gives us the solution, so we had to take action, and I believe that the transformation of MATE in the new structure has already brought about significant changes that are at the heart of finding this answer. And in conclusion, just one more sentence: only to the news that it is transforming, and that we are finally dealing with it, 24 percent more students have applied now, in the first year than in the previous year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2021-11-10-126	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain agricultural legislation until closure. The government referral is T/17436. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-11-10-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The bill before you proposes to amend 17 laws. I would like to briefly summarise the most important content of each amendment. At the same time as the new rules adopted last year for primary production activities, the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act introduced favourable rules on the tax liability of primary producers, and therefore an increasing number of self-employed persons engaged in agricultural activities changed to the form of primary producers. In the event of the termination of the status of self-employed person, the law provides for the application of the rules of termination, which, unfortunately, would also lead to a tax liability in cases where the farmer does not complete his activity, but only changes the forms in which the activity is carried out. In view of the continuation of agricultural activity, it is therefore appropriate to provide special tax rules to those who do not want to cease their activities but to continue within the limits of their farmers. The rules contained in the proposal allow for prior enforcement of the advantages previously used, continuation of depreciation and further account to be taken of the loss distanced. The purpose of the amendment to the Hunting Act is to adapt the rules of the game management sector to the changed administrative environment, to clarify certain provisions in order to facilitate uniform application of the law, and to reduce the administrative burden for industry and public authorities. The amendment of the Hunting Chamber Act provides the opportunity to introduce electronic administration in the hunting chamber's task. At the same time, it is possible to renew the single member registration system of the Chamber of Hunting so that it can meet the customer data requirements of about 67 thousand Hungarian professional and sports hunters. The first step of the new tag registration system was the establishment of an online accessible system, which the Chamber of Hunting carried out for 2021 in the light of the pandemic situation. This is closely linked to the replacement of current paper hunting tickets for new types of plastic hunting tickets. Efforts to validate the hunting ticket and change the form of the hunting ticket can already be traced back several years, due to legitimate sectoral needs, for which the amendment provides the legal basis. The amendment of the forest law is short-term, but it is intended to address an important problem. The management of the so-called contract of assignment will be terminated by 31 December 2021. However, in some cases, multi-annual Union support programmes are in place in such areas, where the termination of grant relationships may lead to breach of contract and the obligation to repay the aid, where appropriate. Although stakeholders have had several years to ensure continuity of management by concluding a new contract, it is not intended to impose repayments of aid due to the cessation of the beneficiaries' rights as forest farmers. Such results should be protected by existing or ongoing forest plantings, forest restructurings, forest-environmental management commitments and forest value-enhancing interventions. The amendment provides for the possibility of maintaining the legal relationship until the end of the aid period. By amending the National Land Fund Act, the conditions for obtaining a model economic title will be clarified for farmers or recognised groups of companies, and the rules for land supply necessary for the implementation of the Tokaji career programme will be laid down. The aim of the programme is to stop the migration from the Tokaj wine region of the young, qualified, graduate labour force and to create favourable conditions for the establishment of young professionals who are susceptible to wine growing and winery in Tokaj from other parts of the country. In order to achieve this goal, individuals holding vineyards in the Tokaj wine region who no longer wish to use their plantations in good regions but are typically in bad condition will be given the opportunity to invite the County Council of Tokaj Wine Region to offer certain areas of their land for purchase to the State. Subsequently, the National Land Management Centre (NFA) owns the property management rights of the affected areas of the Tokaj Wine Region Mountain Council, the Tokaj Wine Production Community Infrastructure Centre Nonprofit Kft. to be given to you. It's a nonprofit. and ensure that, in four to six years' time, the plantations are brought into a uniform professional condition in order to enable them to be used or owned by qualified young farmers with a view to cultivation. This will provide a new perspective for genuine producers, which currently does not exist, and will ensure quality progress through modern plantations in quality areas, without generating any hard-to-selling surpluses. The amendment to the Public Health Product Tax Act contains only one technical clarification regarding the scientific designation of Apis mellifera, i.e. the domestic uterus. The amendment of the Chamber of Agriculture Act contains clarification provisions concerning the register of members of the Chamber, the power to grant area aid applications and the rules relating to the election of the county delegates of the Chamber of Agriculture. The latter is important because, in the end, the court had to take a stand on the outcome of the last Chamber elections because of the inaccuracies of the regulation. The amendment follows the court's interpretation of the law, so that future Chamber elections are not burdened by legal uncertainty. A short amendment to the Law on fish management aims to make it possible to be eligible for the transfer of the right to fish where good and legitimate fishing practices can be reasonably expected. The amendment of the Land Traffic Act includes, on the one hand, the provisions necessary for the transition to the new Real Estate Registration Act adopted this year, on the other hand, the relationship between sales contracts and the publication of lease contracts and the procedure for approval by the public authorities is re-regulated, and, on the third, it lays down provisions on the implementation of the judgment given by the European Court of Justice in respect of the abolition of benefits. In the case of contracts subject to official approval which have the place to exercise the right to pre-purchase or pre-lease, the procedure currently in force shall not be opened until the publication procedure has been completed. Sadly, therefore, the fundamental errors of the posted contract which lead to the immediate refusal of approval will be revealed only after the end of the suspension period. In this case, the problem can only be solved by concluding a new contract, followed by a further suspension procedure, as appropriate. This is a lengthy process and an unnecessary burden on the notaries involved in the publication in an operational manner, and it is also detrimental to persons wishing to take advantage of their pre-purchase and pre-lease rights. It is therefore necessary to amend the procedure in such a way as to allow for the prior elimination of contracts suffering from a defect giving rise to immediate refusal before the suspension. Under the new rules, in the case of contracts subject to official approval which have the place to exercise the right to pre-purchase or pre-lease, the parties must submit the contract not to the notary but to the land office. The Authority shall, in the course of its ex ante examination, filter out contracts with basic defects and refuse to approve them. [[18.00]] In the absence of a refusal, the authority shall act on its own initiative towards the notary in order to publish the contracts. On the basis of feedback from law enforcement and a review of the relevant Curia case law, it is appropriate to clarify certain cases of the transfer of more than one land as a whole. The sale of several land at the aggregate purchase price remains one of the basic cases if they are adjacent to each other. However, the criterion relating to the user's person is modified: it may also be sold on a cumulative purchase price if the land is situated in the same or adjacent district, but the registered land user may only be the seller or the buyer for at least three years. In the event of the sale of more than one land on a aggregate purchase price in order to prevent abuse, the right of pre-emption of the farmer's partner may be exercised only if such pre-emptive right exists for all the properties concerned. The disproportionate amount of the wage is the reason for the non-approval of the contract. The value of the rent shall be considered to be disproportionate if the land concerned does not have objective beneficial properties which justify a deviation from the rate of the normal wage on the spot. The law defines the beneficial properties that can be taken into account: the location of the land, the quality of the earth, the value of the golden crown, its irrigability, its capacity, its accessibility from the road. However, it is not possible to take into account uncertain future events and subjective circumstances, i.e. depending on the decision and risk taking of the landlord. In the event of a deviation from the average wage, the burden of proof falls on the rent tax that the value of the rent is proportionate. The Chamber of Agriculture may use a sign to the Land Administration regarding the disproportionateness of the wages. In this case, the Chamber shall have the right to bring an action in its proceedings in respect of the status of the client and the administrative action against the decision of the agricultural administration approving or refusing a lease contract. There's also a change in the rules for the salary. In the interest of transparency, the payment of the rent may be made by transfer or by postal transfer, except for the lease contract for land of less than one hectare, transactions between relatives and the lease of the farm. For more than two years, the government has consulted the European Commission in order to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Justice in favour of beneficiaries. As a result, the data subjects will be given the opportunity to register their cancelled entitlement or to make financial compensation. However, for a number of objective reasons it is not possible to register, for example if the property has been changed or shared in the meantime. Resignation may be requested within a specified time limit, which shall be a limitation period. The existence of conditions must be examined by the Land Administration. The amount of cash compensation depends on the age of the former beneficiary, based on 5 percent of the value of the property. The amendment to the excise duty law is justified by the entry into force of the new wine law and should therefore be replaced with reference to the new law. The amendment of the Social Contribution Tax Act is also linked to the rules of primary producers, allowing more favourable tax rules to be applied in the event of a change during the year. The Law on Irrigation Management entered into force on 1 January 2020. The practical experience of the period since its entry into force has made it necessary to review this. In the watering communities, agricultural water providers may also be members in the future, as well as the right to use land in the area of the irrigation zone, not only the members, but also the company or cooperative applying for Community recognition for irrigation may have a certain percentage. The growing changes in climatic conditions lead to the need for irrigation of more plants, so it will be possible to establish the irrigation community not only for the cultivation of vegetable and vegetable gardens, but also for all gardening crops. As a result of the amendment, environmental district plans and representation by the water management body may be drawn up and the issue of the operation and maintenance of non-municipal third-party works will also be resolved. The amendment of the law closing the share-financing procedures allows the Minister to decide on the right to purchase land which has been owned by the State and which has previously been subject to the right of use of land, so that a protected area is not automatically excluded from the public domain. The amendments to the rules on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields are justified by the feedback of the law enforcement over the past period. In addition to a number of technical clarifications, the rules for payment by court deposit and the simplification of the minimum territorial rules for forests will be specified in detail. Finally, conceptual, registration and procedural issues will be clarified by amending the Family Farms Act. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, you can see that the amendments under discussion are minor and mostly technical. However, these minor corrections still provide meaningful assistance to the farmers or businesses concerned. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill on the grounds stated. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-11-10-128	Thank you very much, Minister István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-10-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation is a comprehensive draft amending several laws by which 17 laws are amended. The need to amend certain agricultural legislation is justified by the need to technically clarify the substantive and procedural rules of the laws contained therein, to remedy the shortcomings of the past period, to transpose certain EU directives into the Hungarian legal order and to establish regulatory consistency with other laws. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax Law 1 lays down favourable rules on the tax liability of primary producers, and therefore an increasing number of self-employed farmers have indicated that they would continue their activities as primary producers in the future. In the event of the termination of the status of self-employed person, the law provides for the application of the rules of termination, which also leads to the creation of a tax liability in cases where the business of the farmer is not completed but only changes the framework for the pursuit of the activity. In view of the continuation of agricultural activity, special tax rules should help those who do not want to cease their activities, but to continue within the framework of their farmers. The rules allow for further enforcement of the advantages previously used, continuation of depreciation and further consideration of the loss margins. The 1996 XLVI on game protection, game management and hunting. The purpose of the amendment is to adapt certain laws related to the game management sector to the changed administrative environment, to clarify, clarify certain provisions in order to facilitate uniform application of the law, to reduce administrative burdens for industry operators and authorities, to introduce electronic administration in the performance of the hunting chamber's tasks, to ensure consistency of the rules of law at sectoral level, and to codify regulatory proposals and societal needs that have already been repeatedly raised in recent years in connection with hunting and game management and have been politically supported, approved and agreed by professional associations of interest representatives. [[18.10]] The 1997 XLVI on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. With regard to the amendment of the Act, the sectoral strategic objective is to renew the digital environment and, at the same time, to create a new, uniform member registration system. The main concern is that the Chamber of Hunting is able to perform its administrative tasks as required by law with maximum efficiency. The first step of the new tag registration system was the establishment of an online accessible system, which the Chamber of Hunting carried out for 2021 in the light of the pandemic situation. This is closely linked to the replacement of current paper hunting tickets for new types of plastic hunting tickets. Efforts to validate the hunting ticket and change the form of the hunting ticket can already be traced back to several years of sectoral needs, for which this amendment provides the legal basis. The other important components of the legislative amendment are the need to clarify the procedure for the registration of hunters, to align them with the rules of compulsory membership of the hunting chamber, to clarify the procedures used by the hunting chamber and to simplify a number of administrative issues and to establish coherence with other legislation. The amendment of the Chamber Act serves these purposes, establishing the conditions for the issuance and development of new types of hunting tickets by the representative organisations, with certain amendments to the Hunting Act. The 1997 CXLI on the Real Estate Register The amendment of the Act complements the procedure for examining the re-registration of the deleted right. In addition, in the real estate register, it adds to the list of mandatory legally significant facts relating to real estate in relation to the initiation of a procedure for examining the re-registration of the cancelled right. XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry The purpose of the amendment of the Act on Forests, Protection of Forests and Forestry, amended in 2017, is to implement, by virtue of the law, old forestry contracts with an informal content, which do not normally contain the guarantees of accounting for landowners. Instead, new land-use contracts should be concluded in line with the existing land-use regulations. The contracts were originally due to expire on 31 December 2018, but the deadline has been amended several times. Finally, the final deadline was changed to 31 December 2021. LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund The amendment of the Act ensures the transfer to the National Earth Fund of the areas of land which do not comply with the provisions governing the scope of the National Earth Fund Act, acquired for the benefit of the Hungarian State for the purpose of the development of irrigation and intended for the future, and the exercise by the National Earth Management Centre. It lays down specific rules for the designation of farmers' organisations as recognised groups and farmers as sample holdings. The proposal implements text-exchange clarifications and changes for legal purposes; the bill also helps to implement the "Tokaji career" programme. CIII of 2011 on the Public Health Product Tax The amendment of the law only clarifies wording. CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. Amendment of the Act, the transmission of the data necessary for the establishment of the agricultural chamber membership fee reduces the administrative burden of membership, as the provision of data by the public authority can be avoided by providing data to the Chamber of Agriculture. A knowledge of the date of death of the member is essential to establish termination of membership. In several cases, it is necessary for NAK to request additional data, including in relation to the setting of chamber membership fees and the establishment of membership status and termination. In addition, the proposal also implements wording points for legal purposes. The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. It is necessary to amend law because the wording in force does not fully ensure the enforcement of the legislator's intention to be eligible for the transfer of the right to fish where the application of good and legitimate fishing practices can be reasonably expected. CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. It is necessary to amend law because provisions on personal cultivation obligations are clarified in order to prevent abuse. The amendment of the Land Traffic Act is also justified by a review of the enforcement feedback and the relevant Curia case-law, and it is appropriate to clarify certain cases of the lease of several land against a cumulative rent. CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. Law 5 is amended in terms of legal clarification and prevention of abuse. Organic farming is a privileged place in the order of pre-emption and pre-retirement rights, which requires appropriate guarantee rules to prevent unlawfulness. Based on the practice of law enforcement, it is necessary to supplement the existing obligation to prevent abuse, so the holder must also demonstrate to the agricultural body that he has started to switch to organic farming. The production of a protected product of origin is also a privileged place in the order of pre-purchase and pre-lease right, which requires appropriate guarantee rules to prevent abuse. Such a provision is the commitment to produce a protected product of origin on a land acquired with such a pre-emptive right for a period of at least 10 years, which, in the event of the transfer of ownership in the meantime, also obliges the buyer. LXVIII of 2016 on excise duty. Law 17 refers in many cases to the decree of the Minister responsible for agricultural policy when laying down rules on wine products. The year 2020 CLXIII on vineyard and winery. However, by drawing up a law, some of the requirements previously laid down at ministerial level are set at government regulation level and it is therefore necessary to clarify the references to this effect. LII of 2018 on social contribution tax. The amendment of the Act is necessary because, on 10 June 2021, a paragraph of the Social Contribution Tax Act was repealed, according to which a member of the family holding of a family farmer or of an ancestral farmer could deduct from the basis of the social contribution tax payable as a primary producer the basis for the social contribution tax paid as an individual entrepreneur. This deduction is not possible after 10 June 2021. In view of the fact that, as a result of the epidemiological measures, the pre-producer has until the end of the emergency, the decision to continue his activities as an ancestor as a member of the family holding of the original producers and to withdraw his activities from the self-employed register or as an individual entrepreneur is therefore justified until 31 December 2021. CXIII of 2019 on irrigation farming. The amendment of the law is technically justified. The concept of irrigation zone is clarified on the basis of practical experience. The goal is to avoid the designation of too large and dismembered zones. The irrigation district is renamed as an irrigation area, making it easier to separate from the irrigation zone in everyday vocabulary. [[18.20]] The concept of operating contract will be introduced for the operation of third-party works owned by the State. Furthermore, in order to ensure a continuous and safe supply of water, it is necessary to provide the possibility of becoming a member of the Community for irrigation to natural or legal persons providing agricultural water services in the area of the irrigation zone. XL 2020 on the settlement of land ownership of land under land use rights and amending certain land law. It is justified to amend law because, in the context of the right to purchase land previously covered by the right to land use, it is appropriate to give the Minister the opportunity to decide not to automatically remove a protected area from the public domain. LXXI of 2020 on the liquidation of the existing undivided joint ownership of land and the real estate registration of land holders. The amendment of the Act is due to technical clarifications, which complement the law on the one hand and resolve the contradictions on the other; and finally, CXXIII of 2020 on family holdings. It is necessary to amend law because, pursuant to the Law on Family Farms, after the income of the farmer from the ancillary activity, it is only possible to apply favourable pre-producer tax only if the annual income from the ancillary activity does not exceed one quarter of his income from the pre-farming activity. In view of the fact that the exploitation of the production factors belonging to the holding and its sale under the Land Traffic Act constitute an additional activity, the exploitation and sale of the production factors often result in the proceeds of the additional activity of the prehistoric producer exceeding the revenue ratio. Revenue ratio [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the total income of the ancillary activity cannot be regarded as income from the pre-production activity and therefore must not carry out any additional activity as a farmer. However, there is no way to integrate the one-off high-income generated by the sale of its prehistoric producers. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] revenue. In order to ensure that the farmer does not lose any advantage in relation to the ancillary activity (The President re-rings). , special regulation is required for the sale of production factors, in particular with regard to it (The President re-ringed). the fact that sales of production factors do not occur frequently, so it can be regarded as an exceptional economic event. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, I urge you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-10-130	Forgive me, Congressman, for interrupting, but time has run out. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, notary, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2021-11-10-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, First of all, allow me to thank you for coming to us personally and for presenting this very important legislative amendment clause, if I were to put it in a language a little closer to agriculture, then salad law, because, as you have said, 17 laws are amended here before us, starting with the personal income tax law through the hunting law, the land traffic law, irrigation farming, family farms, and I could tell you more. What they do have in common is that they are all in the interest of agriculture, if you will, we are talking about agricultural laws. Allow me to use a little criticism, because these laws, which are now being amended, have been adopted in recent years, including, in full agreement with, for example, the law on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields, which must now be amended again. I think it is also our shared responsibility that we have failed to create a law that could have preserved itself in its original state for a long time. But that's just how life is, in this case, the Hungarian Parliament is churning out after the events and trying to channel the practical aspects, and it's always late. And one positive thing: overall, these laws are, in general, well-intentioned changes, indeed amendments that make the practical life of farmers easier. Allow me to highlight three of these, which I particularly like. The circumvention of the provisions of the Land Traffic Act by giving gifts was a loophole that should have been closed, and I regret that this has not happened before, but indeed, this is a very necessary change. Just as the lease agreements that were unduly above the market price have deterred my fellow farmers, my fellow owners who wish to use their lease rights, including the unduly high lease fee in Somogy County, which, of course, we can see that it is simply unmanageable and unsettling, and now there is finally an authority control that can undo this. But such, if it is already official control, the preliminary investigation into sales contracts, as Minister said, is at all entitled by the buyer, the buyer, to meet the criteria which must be met to obtain land ownership. This is not revealed after the 60-day period, but before that. I have a proposal on this and we have reached the point of making proposals and questions about the legislative proposals. Let's get started. The Hunting Act would be the first such, and I trust that Minister has not come personally by accident, he will consider these proposals, and he will either answer them in the closing words or before the Committee on Agriculture, because I am not selling a bag cat, and I have already tabled these amendments, so this is already on the committee's table. And what it's all about, without the need for completeness: a few, really, absolutely professional questions that I'd like to agree to. This is the use of handguns by professional hunters, which, according to the bill, can only be carried out if, in the search for the wounded game, it can be used to bring it to the table and to grant a pardon. After all, I think that the professional hunter may be in a situation where he meets rapsicks, poachers, and obviously the rapsic, the poacher, has a gun that has been proven to have been used before. We believe that the wording of the law should also consider using self-defense in such cases in order to protect the life and physical integrity of a professional hunter. And then, I'm going to go on, the way the hunting law changes is that the trophy game has to be taken to a trophy test within 30 days of their elimination. This would not be a problem in itself, however, since the hunter, who may have experienced one of the most decisive experiences of his life during the elimination of a trophy hunter, would obviously like to take possession of the trophy, the prey as soon as possible. However, it should be considered that in the case of wild animals found on the dam and hit by motor vehicles, the professional hunter must also be sent within 30 days. This means a significant journey, and I am talking not only about the costs, but also about the time that falls out, which cannot carry out its task in substance, sometimes it may take a whole day to deliver to the hunting authority a trophy hunter found or run over on such a trophy. I would suggest that we make an exception to this for consideration, and, as it was before, after the hunting season has ended, we will have to present this together within 30 days. [[18.30]] I'm moving on. My next suggestion is this, and I have a question for the hunting law. The proposal is that it is not a violation of the hunting order of the deer, deer, deer, manhunt of the muflon, or the use of electronic optical devices, where appropriate, I do not know whether the author is thinking of a thermal camera. I would like to know that this is really going to happen in the future, because this is, by the way, hunter-ethically absolutely objectionable. That wasn't before, was it? Turning to the case of sample farms, one observation is that it is true that farms that form a quality category in Hungarian agriculture must be treated and supported as a priority, they farm in a very extensive, large area, employ hundreds of workers, and otherwise play a major role in the production chain in different segments from agricultural land to table. This is absolutely eligible, but it is under the conditions that the holding which is otherwise engaged in forest and game management can apply, can bid or even receive the certification of the sample farm. I do not understand this, Minister; what is necessary is to justify this, since there are farmers, such as farmers in the lowlands, where there is simply no forested area, how can they do forest farming? For example, why should a cattle farmer who represents a really premium category not only in Hungary but also in a European context, for example, have to carry out forestry or even game management activities in a model farm? I can't make sense of this, so be kind enough to shed light on the meaning of this. I've been talking about how it's music for my ears to reverse pre-control before I'm posted. However, I see here that the agricultural administration has a 15-day deadline to find out whether the buyer has 300 hectares of land or not, or whether he is a registered land user or not. We believe that we appreciate that this 15-day deadline is excessive and that it would be justified to speed up the process anyway. Let's not forget, four to six months, but some take a year and a half to approve a land sale. So, Minister, we would like this deadline to be 8 days instead of 15 days, because the deadline is 8 days, and the deadline for the notary of the local government, which is also involved in land traffic, is exactly 8 days. We believe that this work can be done in that time, this decision can be made in that time. Another matter that seems small, but hurts the good feeling of many people, and this is that, as a result of the elimination of undivided common land ownership, the former undivided common-owned road will be measured by road, which will be owned by the municipalities. Of course, in order to get close to these pieces of land, it has the right and reason to do so. The problem is that municipalities have access to this free of charge. I say, in such a way that they do not wish to include this in the inventory of assets, they do not want it, they do not ask it, but regardless of the fact, the assets are growing, this has a turnover value anyway, so he is finally getting rich in this title, while the land of landowners, the land that can be cultivated, is reduced, so their land is reduced, they can produce less crops, so the value of gold is reduced. I think that there is a need for some kind of compensation in any way, that the Civil Code provides for expropriation, and that we can consider this step to be expropriation at some level. A complete, unconditional and immediate indemnification, I think, would be entitled to landowners, and the Hungarian State or, where appropriate, the National Land Manager, who could pay these owners. So finally, I can say that the portfolio led by the Minister and the Minister has repeatedly surprised and surprised us with the fact that several of our well-intentioned and professional-based amendments have been adopted over the past period. It is no coincidence that the Parliament voted on these proposals with full support on several occasions. I ask you to consider these proposals, to build them up as far as possible, and if that happens, I will kindly propose to the Jobbik fraction the support of this salad law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-10-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. I now give the floor to Mr László Földi, Member, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-10-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The package of proposals to amend certain agricultural legislation, as we have heard, proposes to change no less than 17 pieces of legislation from personal income tax to family farms. I believe that the amendments to the 2019 Law on Irrigation Management are, to me, the most sympathetic, so to speak, of great importance. They share in common the fact that they promote an increase in the size of the irrigation area, which is literally a vital issue in agriculture, thus indirectly affecting society as a whole. Allow me to remind you that the number of rainy days in Hungary decreased by around 24 percent between 1901 and 2019 and the average annual average temperature increased by 26 percent. In 2020, water-approved irrigable areas were nearly 180,000 hectares, of which the actual irrigated area was only about 80,000 hectares, some 75 percent in the Great Plain. It is also important to note that 90 percent of irrigated areas were irrigated with surface water and only 10 percent with groundwater. Global climate change and daily warming make it essential to develop irrigation. All the more so, because Hungary's agricultural properties are excellent, so we are able to export not only self-sufficiency, but also a substantial part of the results of the national economy, with suitable drought-tolerant, but also high yield varieties, with modern technologies related to them and, not least, irrigation. Dear House, Two thirds of our planet is covered with water. Only 3 percent of this stock is fresh water, of which 1 percent can be used directly, other snow and ice are present in nature. The majority of this small amount is used by industry and agriculture. According to UN experts, the 21st edition of the report was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. By the end of the century, water will be more expensive than gold. Currently, 40 percent of the Earth's population is affected by water scarcity. There are several reasons for the appreciation of the natural resource that has been adopted as blue gold, with global warming and the corresponding decreasing precipitation worldwide rocking past climatic characteristics. It has been analysed that drought damage in Hungary has increased significantly since 2012. In 2018, drought damage reports were registered in Hungary for more than 86 thousand hectares. The increasing water scarcity is caused not only by changes in climatic factors, but also by wasteful use of existing water resources and inadequate water resource management. The primary sector relies almost entirely on water during production. The average annual precipitation in Hungary ranges from 500 to 750 mm. [[18.40]] Only in extreme years is there sufficient rainfall during the breeding period, and irrigation farming is becoming increasingly essential for agriculture in addition to direct rain management. In view of all this and the importance of other elements of the package of proposals, I would like to ask this House to vote in favour of the proposed bill, as the KDNP Group does. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-10-134	Thank you very much, Congressman László Earth, notary. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-11-10-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, We've been through a long afternoon, and we've been discussing a number of agricultural laws and laws over the last few hours. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, has already said that the law before us is, by the way, a salad law which amends 17 laws. Of course, all the laws, thank God, are now linked to agriculture, because there is a salad law that, when it comes to us, changes all kinds of sectors, even from health care onwards, to agricultural law. This is an exception because all amendments are closely linked to agriculture. In essence, I could say that we have seen from the practice of recent years that salad laws were created on the part of the government because there were a lot of positive amendments, but there were always some laws hidden in it that we could not accept, and in the end it turned out that the opposition did not support these laws. Basically, we could say that this salad law could be eligible, but let's go into the details for a little bit. In essence, my fellow Member has said before me that there is a great deal about personal income tax, wildlife protection, wildlife management, hunting chamber, real estate registration, this amendment. One of the most delicate parts is not delicate, but the Hunting Law, the Wildlife and Wildlife Law, if we hear this law and this is called wild farming... we do not call it wild farming, because in everyday language we are talking only about hunting, it is such a delicate part of today's so-called agriculture, and it is not positive when it comes to everyday life. But if we go back a little in time, mankind has always been an integral part of the hunt itself. If I remember my childhood, then my godfather was a simple man, a persecutor, they called these people then, too, he was hunting. It wasn't such an outstanding thing, we didn't talk about it; it wasn't a negative thing, at least I remember my childhood when we brought up the hunt. It wasn't in everyday conversation that when the hunt was thrown out, only negative things came to the fore. It has to be said that if we say it this way in our everyday life, we talk about it, we think about all sorts of negative things, and there's a negative uproar to this question. Of course, we can say that politics always has a lot to do with how we judge something, and unfortunately we have to say that it has a lot to do with that hunting... And we do not refer to the hunt itself as hunting itself as an integral part of our lives, and a necessary thing to do; it has always been a part of our lives, and it will continue to be a part of our lives. But unfortunately, politicians do a lot of things not to talk positively about this thing, and in essence, this amendment of the law and these amendments to the paragraph, that if we look at it individually, ultimately, the facilitation of the register itself, or the use of electronic acoustic devices, which is basically forbidden, but there are cases, and here too the law changes gold jackals, foxes, how this tool can be used legally, that is absolutely fine. Or the imposition of a game-protection penalty, the amendment of it is perfectly fine, because of course, if there is a private individual who doesn't have a hunting ticket, stopping this is a very, very important problem, because the person who hunts and is a member of a hunting company knows very well that a problem living with us, how these people do it and what damage they can do, and they can even be dangerous, as my fellow Member has said, is not only the hunter with a gun, but also the one who does it illegally. And it's a problem living with us, and it's very good that if the government's tightening it up, you can, of course, accept it. But to return a little to the hunt, I think that the current government has a responsibility in this regard, how negative the view of hunting itself in Hungary and the people who are doing it should not be. I think it's going to be really weird for me, that we're talking about sensitivity in a lot of things, and how we can change that in everyday life. I think I hope that even I will live to say that we will bring into the educational goal what hunting and wildlife management are all about; not hunting, but why hunting is necessary, and this is not only a topic in Hungary, but in the world why this is necessary. Let me just give you one thing as an example, and maybe it's a stuck-up thing, that, of course, we like animals, we protect them. Today was the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, and we agree on that, and we must do so by all means. We are talking about responsible animal farming within normal frameworks when we talk about animal welfare, but we don't like the animal when it runs out in front of our car, or we don't like it when it causes an accident; we always look for who's responsible for it. That's why I always say there's always two sides to everything. Wildlife is for me, I say it can also reflect nature's love that I love nature, I love animals in it. It's not always about hunting and hunting that people kill and shoot animals foolishly, that's not true. And it would be a very important topic that the government has developed this negative image over the last few years or decades, some way to treat it or treat it, and because we really are politicians, it wasn't a hunting exhibition that was the best tool, I think. Returning to this salad law, the amendment of the 17 laws, it appears here again, and I can indeed refer to my fellow Member as to how to obtain land in Hungary today. I also said in my previous speech how difficult this is, of course, to protect the property of Hungarian lands. And the last thing I said was that the Chamber of Agriculture, after all, when we're past the 60-day suspension, or the Chambers can even say that we bought the land at a price below or at a price, or we want to buy it, or maybe we offered a much higher price for the land, and this whole process could become a very, very long procedure. The amendment of the law initiates this to come out in advance, but yet I say that I still think this procedure is very strict, and in many cases I think it will prevent either the sale from taking place or a process lasting long or long years. In the simplest case, we are talking about a 1.5-2 year process, when it is born in the first place that someone negotiates and wants land ownership, even if we want to buy a minimal land ownership, the agreement will be made, and by the time it comes to the person's name, it may be two years before it is completely fine, even when it is completely fine. What I don't see is that, regardless of whether it's possible to find out sooner, if I understand the law correctly, that the Chamber will say it sooner, it may turn out before the suspension that the price established is correct, how much this will shorten this sale. [[18.50]] That this will mean months or really speed up, it is not clear to me yet, but I hope that Minister assures me that we are fully talking about the creation of an facilitation. All I can say is, if these modifications were... oh, yeah, I forgot one thing, back to the hunting law: here at the trophy, I would make a teeny-tiny amendment. It's okay that 30 days, I don't think there's a problem with that, not until the end of the hunting season, but 30 days. Not all hunting companies are rich hunting companies, and Covid has caused a lot of problems over the past year and a half, and the hunting companies have also caused a lot of financial problems, I think. I think trophy is really not a very large amount of money, but often, when there's a hunting company, it can be. After the dead animals, I think the trophy award that we can find could be released, because if you're a member of the hunting company, you know that there can be abuse when we find a dead animal, and either we give it to criticism or not. I think this prize could be released at the very least. Anyone who shoots an animal should pay the price, but I think that after the dead animals and the animals that have been killed, it would be safe to let go. So I can only say that if the clarification about the law is made, the Hungarian Socialist Party can also end up supporting this salad law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-136	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-10-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hate to start by saying that we told you this, but the thing is, we actually said a year ago that the definition of complementary activities of the Family Farms Act is not good. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, you might as well say that this is just a definition. Why is this so important? As we know, the devil is always in detail, and in lawmaking, you have to pay attention to such details, and only to reject a bill-modifying proposal because it was submitted by the opposition, we think it is irresponsible. We have been authorized by our constituents to work for his and our country, and whether we like it or not, we must work together, for a party of government and opposition. Everyone can make mistakes, everyone can be wrong, but mistakes need to be seen and corrected as quickly as possible. I ask why small farmers had to wait a year for this amendment when it could have happened a year ago. But let's talk about why this amendment is important. The main objective of the Family Farms Act is to bring the legal background to the functioning of current farmers and family farmers into order and simplification. The aim of the law is to contribute to the whitening of the economy, to reducing administrative burdens, to encourage horizontal and vertical cooperation, to strengthen the market bargaining of producers and to improve competitiveness. By contrast, for all primary producers who sold their products not as raw materials but as processed products with higher added value, the law resulted in the fact that they could not apply the preferential tax rate applicable to primary producers on the proceeds. One of the important objectives of the Family Farms Act would be to help the competitiveness of the smallest farmers, but until now, that is, until the 11th month of the tax year, these farmers knew that they would also have to pay taxes, contributions and tax advances according to the fact that they could not apply the more favourable tax rules applicable to primary producers for these incomes. In agriculture, it is not possible to drive the economy around once for this, and then to push it over here, for every change, it takes time to change. Are you surprised when markets are losing production and supply? It seems there's nothing to be surprised about. In addition to rising raw materials prices and labour prices, these farmers would need at least one predictable legal situation, simple and transparent taxation. If the government hadn't wiped out our amendment a year ago, i.e. the LMP, as a matter of self-respect, then small producers would have known how they would tax this year in November and December last year. Despite the fact that we consider it very important to amend the law in this respect, we will nevertheless be proposing an amendment, since we want the same concepts to mean the same things in different laws. We can only create legal certainty and transparency if we do not define the basic concepts at the level of each law. The original Family Farms Act also referred to the proper wording of the Land Traffic Act, so a year ago and now we tabled an amendment to clarify the concepts set out in the Land Traffic Act in a spirit consistent with the law amendment and to exclude the production of small-scale products from the additional activities. Of course, this is not the only issue of the legislative amendment proposal, but it was once again possible to initiate the simultaneous amendment of 17 laws. Once again, we say that only amendments to laws that are logically, logically, together in substance should be treated as a unit. Once again, the land traffic law will be changed. The biggest novelty is that sales contracts will now be approved in advance by the agricultural administration before publication, so that a contract is rejected not only in months due to formal errors. This is welcome, on the one hand, because many sellers and land buyers are spared an unnecessary waiting period of several months. On the other hand, would it not be easier to provide at least uniform information and easily accessible assistance to lawyers? We would already spare the office an unnecessary pre-control and the parties wishing to carry out the sale from the additional waiting period. The primary task of the agencies should be to inform people, to provide forms and assistance for administration, and to be customer-centred. Another substantial change in the Land Traffic Act is that it grants churches the right to set up or expand a cemetery so that pre-purchase holders cannot exercise that right. It is not clear to us, however, why the legislator does not grant the same rights when the municipalities purchase land for the same purpose. With regard to the amendment of the Land Traffic Act, I would like to draw the attention of those concerned to the fact that there is still a lack of an implementing regulation of the Land Traffic Act, which would finally specify the conditions for the exercise of the right to pre-purchase and pre-lease, thereby eliminating the failure to comply with the law in this regard. Also, this amendment to the Land Traffic Act contains a reference to the regulation issued for the implementation of the law, which regulates the electronic registration document to be attached to the sales contracts. The effort is good, because in 2021, electronic administration should be available in as many areas of life as possible, but if the decree issued to implement the law appears after the entry into force of the law or only immediately before it, it is quite difficult to prepare. Speaking of electronic administration, it may be weird for us not only to state by law that no electronic administration can be initiated by 31 December 2022 in connection with the registration, modification or deletion of primary producers, family farms. In other words, this means that the National Chamber of Agriculture, partly financed by the State budget, partly supported by farmers' money, is technically at the level at the end of 2021 that it is not able to conduct an electronic data modification. [[19.00]] In fact, it is enshrined in the law that it will not be until the end of 2022, and if it does not succeed by then, there will be no problem, and then we will amend the law again, because obviously the primary task of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is to provide the economic society with the necessary information and to assist them in the administration; to do so, it will be given all the authority to do so. With regard to the amendment of the Agricultural Chamber Act, as a technical contributor, it is entitled to represent the members of the Chamber in the electronic administration of the use of agricultural subsidies. So, they're capable of electronic administration after all. So how's that? Moreover, the NAV now provides data not only on the incomes of primary producers, family farmers and agricultural companies, but also on the amounts relating to excise duty, public health product tax and agricultural subsidies, and also on data not only once a year, but also at any time. Obviously, they're not gonna keep all this data in a plaid notebook. It is simply incomprehensible why it is not possible, then, to make electronic records of ancient farmers and family farms. I have to get to the topic of irrigation development. On the one hand, it is a pleasure that the news has come to you that climate change is not just a myth, it is knocking on the door or banging on the door. On the other hand, it would be a greater pleasure for us to hear at least our own experts on water management and to believe that the farmer does not want to build a irrigation channel because he is not being allocated back to the sewers, but because there will be no more water from one place to another. Thirdly, you can see that climate change is not a linear process, but changes are changing our immediate environment more and more rapidly by strengthening each other's impact. In such a rapidly changing environment, it is illegal to state that irrigation development plans have been in force for 20 years, and this is difficult to understand. Handing out irrigation channels that are removed from cultivation into the hands of the National Earth Fund is okay, but in order to give them without applying for them, it is more of a darker future. And speaking of the National Land Fund, another gem, another foundation, another opportunity to sell land free of charge, the tokaji career program. It is clear from the explanation of the law that individuals holding vineyards in the Tokaj wine region who no longer wish to use plantations located in good regions, but which are typically in bad condition, will be given the opportunity to invite the County Council of the Tokaj Wine Region to offer certain areas of their land for purchase to the State. Subsequently, the National Land Management Centre, which is owned by the Tokaj Wine Region Mountains Council, has the right to manage the property of the affected areas, is still the Tokaj Wine and Wine Production Community Infrastructure Centre to be pronounced, or to say long Nonprofit Kft. to be given to you. It's a nonprofit. ensure that the plantations are placed in a state appropriate to the management needs of the plantations in a uniform professional manner over a period of 4 to 6 years in order to give them to the use or ownership of qualified young farmers with a view to cultivation. Well, if that's not clear to anyone, the point is that the NFK buys broken plantations with public money for a nonprofit. who will use new public funds to make these plantations flourish in 4-6 years and then give them to qualified young people. It's just me, or we think we don't know how this ends, and it's possible that the NER kinship will be able to get free land again, this time in the Tokaj wine region. I hope that Minister will deny this in the future. Thank you very much for your kind attention. We will submit amendments to the draft law once again, and we will decide on the draft after the end of the Commission phase to establish our final position. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-138	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, who has applied for a speech, Jobbik Group.
u2021-11-10-139	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I won't use time. I'm actually interested in a few things here about the salad law in a very big way. One is, for example, about the reimbursability of the deleted right to benefit from the fact that it did not foresee that this would be a problem. After all, we knew that such cases were often viewed with concern in the European Union. How much will it cost, let's say, to the taxpayers, to re-record this? Is there any estimate of how many of them are going to ask for this opportunity, and how many of them still have the right to go through with it? So that would be one of the things I'm interested in from Minister. I always say about model farms when it comes to the fact that the government owes an apology to, say, Kishantos, because I think they would have met the goals they set for the model farms. So I think it's time you apologize publicly for what you did there, for example. I mean, if they're model farms, what's in the government's mind? How many of these model farms are expected, let's say, over the next few years, which, if they can, will be classified as a model farm with the existing ones? And why is it that the sample farms so far have typically affected your environment positively? I would also like to join Erzsébet Schmuck LMP CEOs by saying that we do not understand why this electronic data modification will not be possible, especially in view of the fact that, since the Agricultural Chamber of Economics has been reformed, how many billion forints of public money have been spent each year by European Union or domestic sources with the title of IT development at the Chamber. It's worth adding up to. Then it is absolutely incomprehensible how we can keep you here in 2021, slowly, in 22. I would also like to know why, if we are to achieve this noble goal in relation to neglected vineyards in Tokaj, which is clearly outlined in the legislation, it is not possible, at the end, to include guarantees that these land really serves the purposes described in the explanatory statement. We want to see a lot more guarantees, especially with regard to the precedents that we have seen, say, in terms of land privatisation, when the wording was about raising the land for farmers, and then how we will raise the Hungarian peasant culture through this, and how we will create an opportunity for vibrant rural farms. Meanwhile, we know where the greasy, big, state land ended up. Well, not in this circle of goals, it's pretty obvious. So I would also be satisfied if it contained a permanent lease as a outcome only this legislation and not a transfer of ownership. I do not find it problematic that the Hungarian state has quality vineyards for property, let's say Tokajon. If you'd like to answer these questions, Minister, thank you. Overall, Ádám Steinmetz, our fellow Member, said what should and may be known from the Jobbik faction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-140	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes.
u2021-11-10-141	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm sorry, I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. It's connected, but not so closely, to the bill. If you can answer me now, I'd be happy to, if not, to send it to you in writing. The point is that an endangered wild goose was shot in Hortobágy National Park after the government loosened the hunting rules. The Hungarian Avian Association requests the restoration of the earlier ban. They say that international conventions are also binding on the Hungarian state to protect the bird that has been shot. You know something about that, Minister. Thank you very much, and I apologize for asking such a question here. If not, I'll write you a letter and thank you. [[19.10]]
u2021-11-10-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Two minutes, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély!
u2021-11-10-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But some people are watching, and I hope my phone doesn't die. There's only one comment, because there's people watching the broadcast. A kisser who acquires undivided common property receives the right to one-sided change of the pre-lease agreement previously concluded. Is that all right, Minister? That's all they've written for me to ask you in any way. The undivided common ownership. With the Chamber of Agriculture, I should be looking into which section. That's all they wrote to me to ask you in any way that it's not okay. We've always had problems with retroactive legislation, and it wouldn't be good for it to reappear in such a salad law, which, in the end, even the opposition might be able to support with these tiny clarifications, but not to include such things. We always have a bad taste in our mouths when we say that something is revised retroactively by the government, so far we have not had good experience. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-10-144	Thank you, Congresswoman. No further comments were received; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-11-10-145	Yes, thank you, because, on the one hand, it is a matter of amending a very serious amount of law, and, on the other hand, it is the life of man, and it is responsible for ensuring that farmers have a production background in which they can function safely and effectively every day, in a proper manner and under appropriate legal conditions. Let me begin by commenting on my fellow Member Steinmetz's amendment to the hunting law that we do not continue to support the thermal camera for the world. I would like to clarify how to understand: the thermal camera can only be used for reconnaissance, it is still not allowed to be mounted on a weapon, it is not possible to do so, as it conflicts with all kinds of hunting ethics. In the case of rapsics, the question of the use of weapons is not governed by the hunting law, but by the Btk. controlled by and can use and claim the weapon they need to do so. The proposal on trophy criticisms will be considered and I would ask you to present it as an amendment. With regard to the municipal ownership of roads, when you said so, I would like to say that it is not a new legislation, it is only transferred. It's been that way, not as an expropriation, and it won't be. I would like to say the following to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's speech, and it felt so good because it justified what I felt inside. The hunt was not negative, you said, while living in your village. Perfect position description. Where does this hunt come from? Everyone in that village knows what the hunt is about. It's very strange, and I enjoyed it very much, because it was almost a bourgeois burst when I said that hunting is one of the most active nature conservation and that hunters are one of the most active conservationists. The echo shows how separated people are from nature, how different they are, and they have no idea what the hunt is about. I would like to talk about something very important here, on the final issues of this law, and I think that we can clarify things. The congresswoman also said what politics was wrong about her, the role of politicians, the role of the government, the negatives she had done. I think there is a mistake in the wording here, because judging the hunt and putting it in the general negative context, I think it is a serious mistake. It must be said who behaves unethically, because hunting itself is an active nature conservation, a necessary activity, an activity formed with humanity. Let's face it, if there isn't, there's no quality game management, the whole protection we're building on, there isn't, and some people's excesses, most of them suddenly, rapidly enriched entrepreneurs, unethical people, can't be generalized, and there's no way to say that hunting is a harmful and unnatural act. The most organic, as nature, man and beast are connected, the three together, and for this harmony, for this quality, for wildlife management, one is responsible for the hunter, because he must decide and regulate this coexistence, living together. I suggest that we consider that when we talk about the negative perception of hunting, I must say that we are talking about the inappropriate, unethical behavior of some people. But it's not hunting itself that's harmful and negative. I think the view of the World Hunting Exhibition was just a political communication that was unsuccessful. It was an elemental success, so I can safely put it this way, it was an elemental success. Everyone there tried to save communication patterns from the opponents, but this was an elemental success, with so many participants who were there, they went out with a shiny eye, and they understood what the hunt was, and it was a fantastic thing, and this proved the need for it afterwards. Consider the amendment of the law, the release of the trophy and the prize for the game that has been lost; this, I say, should be considered. I would like to say to my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck that he is absolutely right, there is no difference between a church cemetery and a municipal cemetery. Since local governments have so far received free land for cemetery use, they have every right to receive it and reverse logic, we must also be able to give the churches the cemetery. We have come to a very important question: Tokaj's career program. Do you remember how many times we've been eyeballed to do a career program? There he is. Everything you can read in the book, as you think, exactly, the young intellectuals get out, want to work, but there's no territory. A generational change is also a problem in Tokaj. There is a neglected grape in a good growing area, because there is no strength, there is no possibility, there is no successor to care for it, there is no buyer to buy it, because a young man who wants to pursue a new life, a new career, a new way of life is not able to invest enough. The state comes in, buys it, installs it to be modern, renovates it, and then advertises it by way of a tender and gives it to those who want to cultivate it. I think this is a very important programme, because, as always in the Hungarian wine and wine sector, especially winemakers, always take a pioneering role and take the lead in every marketing activity, market selling mode, they are always the first to show us what sensitivity there is and where to go. I believe that, on the basis of this example, we will be able to do a number of other career programmes, but this is a very excellent proposal with broad agreement from the region, which I think is worth considering and introducing. [[19.20]] And let me tell my fellow Member of Hungary how much it costs to eliminate the ex lege of the benefits, he understands, he knew in advance yes, we knew, but it was worth it. 'Cause what is it, really? Let's just say what's happening here? Why did we bring it and why did we do it? Because we protected the Hungarian land. That's how we were able to liquidate the pocket contracts. We sent the clear message to foreigners that there is no possibility and no track. We knew that it was... not quite consistent, although it is safe to say that it is absolutely impossible to agree that the sale of agricultural land falls into the same category as, say, the sale of a plastic factory, because it is a special property and should be placed in a position of special status. Europe should also understand that. We see how sensitive it is in every country. And the fact that we were able to get land for a tenth of what we had, and they'd come all the way to the Danube, practically, with a million hectares of pocket contracts in foreign properties, had to stop, drastically, decisively, and we knew that there would be a price. Is the message gone? Has the process stopped? Did it work? It was worth it. That's what I have to tell you. And that was a very important, very big role. Congresswoman Schmuck, what you've asked about the wild goose, I must say, is not a law-abiding violation by the hunter or not. The hunter's individual responsibility must be sought and punished infinitely; to examine how he could have done this, why he had been trained properly, to follow all the rules that could happen and to punish him in such a way that he would never want to do it again. Because when you decide whether to pull the trigger or not, you always try to be safe three times more than to target someone. That should always be considered. And if you don't think about it, you're gonna have to pay for it. So I have to say that he didn't shoot him because the rules on hunting or killing wild goose, when it's possible to shoot or not, happened, but because the hunter was irresponsible, and he has to be caught and punished. Let me give you a written answer to my colleague Bangón's question. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Thank you for that!]] 'Cause I didn't understand the beginning. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I'll tell you!]] And I need to know exactly what it is, because these are very sensitive questions, and in order to give you an accurate answer, allow me to do it in writing. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I'll send it over, okay?]] Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Thank you very much!]] I would ask and urge my fellow Members to make amendments to this amendment of the land law and the whole land salad, to send them away, to discuss them in the detailed debate, and then to ask everyone to support the adoption of this legislation with their vote. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-10-146	Thank you very much, Minister István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró applied for a speech:. We cannot be called Gypsy. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2021-11-10-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fidesz and the Balliberal bloc voted together in a coalition to take away my office in Józsefváros, ignoring my right to political expression guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The question of national fate is how the future of Hungarians, the future of Hungary, will evolve, and we will indeed be a minority in our own country, as the trends of the past decades have shown. Béla Hell, who was elected by Fidesz by two thirds as constitutional judge and social scientist in his work The End Days of Europe The Consequences of Demographic Collapse, points out that while the number of Hungarians is halved by generations, the number of Romas will double in the same time. I recently asked the Ministry of the Interior with a written question that they were planning to change the best practice in the last thirty years that there are no official statistics on the number of children born among nationalities and ethnicities, but Károly Kontra did not seem to understand my question, and with a very cynical response, he dealt with this extremely important question with an almost single-line answer. It is clear, therefore, that the government will continue to choose to sweep the problem under the rug rather than provide meaningful solutions to the social policy problems that do exist in society in relation to Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence. We know from the work of Szilveszter Póczik, for example, that among the prisoners, the proportion of Roma in prisons is five to six times the share of Roma in society as a whole, and we also know from the work of the Commissioner for Education Rights that school violence is higher in the types of institutions and in the region where Roma are present in a higher proportion, so we can meet with it in the region of North-East Hungary and in vocational training. Our Homeland Movement also has suggestions for solutions. In our view, what happened on Gyöngyöspata could not happen again, that even those who caused the problem were being compensated. There are hundreds of settlements in Hungary where families are forced to take their children to school, who want to guarantee their right to study, and who want to keep their children safe, and who are not protected by the state. According to our country, they should not be the ones to move on, but the children who are causing the problem should be taken out of these classes, and in the most extreme cases we would raise them in boarding schools. But in order for the political culture to change, and the practice of the last thirty years to continue, that both the Fidesz and the Balliberal bloc view gypsy as a cheap voting layer, Mi Hazank also recommends that we tie the vote to writing and reading so that it is not possible to buy someone's votes cheaply for a bag of potatoes. The poster, which is also the, we can't be Gypsyland! He wore an inscription, and for which the competent committee of the municipality unanimously decided to terminate the lease with the joint votes of the Fidesz and Balliberians, otherwise it is not illegal, and it is extremely important to stress that it falls within the sphere of political opinion, as it has not been brought up against me because of this poster, and in the past both the National Election Committee and the Supreme Court have stated, in connection with the word similar to Gypsy Penalty, that it can be used in political public speaking, so that it cannot be called into question as a legal disadvantage for its user. Just as the government is saying that we cannot be an immigrant country, this national issue of fate should not be swept under the carpet. Whether they try to silence us in Józsefváros or in Parliament or in public areas, we will deal with this issue, because the tensions arising from Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence have caused this country a great deal of damage over the last thirty years. And even if they try to silence us, we still say we can't be Gypsyland. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-10-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, Aradszki András, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has applied for a post-meeting address: The development of schools and health institutions in the 1st constituency of Pest county. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-10-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of my speech after today's agenda is to show, from the bottom up, what changes have been made in the area of health and education in the country and within my constituency. It belongs to the 1st district of Pest county, in the outskirts of Érdes, to Törökbálint, Saltkút, Pusztazamor, Tárnok and Diósd. If you look at health care in these settlements, you can be happy to say that, for example, all GP clinics in Érden have been renewed, and two new clinics have been built, including Karolina Street, private equity investment, and the Staud József clinic and health care facility, which provides the care as a completely new building. [[19.30]] In addition, I have to say that the lung hospital at Törökbálint has expanded with a new wing, in which outpatient and inpatient care can be found, and operates on completely new and modern foundations. In addition, the placement of general practitioners at Törökbálint has changed. In a modernly renovated building, they find the opportunity to do their job and work in one place. It can be said that very significant improvements have been made in the area of health, the sum of which can be estimated at billions of forints, which also means that healthcare is fundamentally renewed. This also highlights the renovation of the Dr. László Romics Medical Institute in Érd, for which the city spent HUF 858 million on the second phase of the project, through the program of modern cities. This investment has renovated existing building blocks, improved its instrumentality, provided a modern information and IT system, and also provided an opportunity to move the lung care provider, which is a significant relief for patients in the region and in Érd. I think it is important to mention that there has also been serious investment in the social field. The complex social and child welfare institution on Topoly Street was renewed from HUF 3 billion net, with new buildings in a small part renewed area and new buildings in a larger area, XXI. The wealth of the town of Érd increased with buildings meeting the requirements of the century. The ruined building of the nursing home was completely renovated, and the temporary home of the families, as well as the homeless hostel, was separated and placed here with a separate entrance, in completely new and modern conditions. It can therefore be said that there have been significant improvements in the health sector in my constituency, with urban, government and tender funds, especially with the programme of modern cities, which provided significant amounts of money. It is worth watching the situation of education. We have renovated several kindergartens, two new kindergartens have been built, and the nursery has been upgraded, although there are still shortcomings on the cradle front. Two applications were submitted by the pre-2019 municipality, but the current liberal city administration pushed them away and these applications had to be considered unsuccessful. As a personal success, I think it is important to mention that I have also drawn attention to the need for the government to remove the anomaly in the care of the family nursery. This has happened, and from not so long ago, parents receive a monthly allowance of HUF 40,000 for children placed in such homes. I also have to tell you that new schools have been built. Batthyány Elementary School, as well as an educational center, was established in Fenyves-Park City. The feature of both is that after it was completed, local city management started scratching to get the furniture, and, for example, regarding the school in the pine-park town, we are at the point where the contractor left in August, and it is expected that next year there will be something from this school. What you can see is that what we started in 2018 has been successfully pursued and that is what we are striving for in the next cycle. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-10-150	Thank you very much, Congressman András Aradski. Mr Ádám Steinmetz, notary, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-scheduled speech. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2021-11-10-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have brought matters of Fonyód to this House. In recent times, I have often mentioned the issue of the children's camp in Fonyódliget, which, contrary to government promises, did not camp or receive children in 2019 or 2020, but only in August this year, not ideally expressed on the basis of the feedback of those there. Some of the children were cold at night from the rain under the tents, which, by the way, were breathless and unheated. The water from the firefighters pumped in. With the Hungarian taxpayers' money, Lőrinc Mészáros' companies were able to renovate this camp for nearly HUF 5 billion, which is a tent camp surrounded by barbed wire and resembles a refugee camp. We'd like to know exactly what these funds were spent on. Life is going on in your head, and there are many other problems. This is the case of the Hotel Sirály, whose owners received Horribilis amount of aid announced two years ago with a large string, but nothing happened. On a board we can see that this money has been won, but the Seagull is not soaring, it is not even in one place, its consistency is constantly deteriorating, and like the children's camp in Fonyódliget, it does not generate any indirect tax revenue for the city. It also does not generate tax revenue for the city, the viewer in Várhegy, which has been closed for two years. According to some, Fonyod is the lookout tower of Lake Balaton, and the one who had gone up to this wonderful lookout tower could also meet with a unique view of the Nagyberek and the Lake Balaton. However, the maintenance of this work has been delayed in recent years, making it accidental and life-threatening. The city obviously doesn't have any money for this again, it doesn't have a source, because if there was, they would have renovated it. And then there's the Fonyód News case, which is actually a newspaper run and published by Fidesz city leadership, in which opposition critical voices have not been present for years, because it would be political content, but in the latest issue, a page has been dedicated to calling the Fonyód primary dog comedy, Gyurcsány-show and composed play. All I can say is that this play was a pretty good play then, because in a few days nearly a thousand people from Fonyód could say that they wanted a change in Fonyód, they wanted a change in Somogyország. And if it stays that way, the finale will not be cancelled, because next spring elections will be held. I trust that the change will come, and then perhaps the city should not raise any more taxes, as has been the case in recent times. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, instead of calling the government's attention to not taking away business tax and not taking away the car tax, they raised taxes. They raised the land tax, the property tax, and raised the tourist tax, sabotaging the people who live here and the people who have a holiday home here. When we talk about change, we also want a change in this area. I hope that this will arrive in Somogyland next spring and arrive in Fonyod, and then perhaps there will be something to renovate these facilities, and there will be tax revenue for the city. Thank you very much to all those who support my work. Thank you very much for your trust. I'm committed to change, and I'm going to do something about it, and thank you for your respect.
u2021-11-10-152	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
