u2021-05-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 18th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Again, all I have to do is fulfill my sad duty by announcing the death of our former colleague Gábor Kovács, who lived for 90 years. Gábor Kovács, as a member of the Christian Democratic People's Party of the first freely elected Parliament after the regime change, obtained his mandate in the 4th constituency of the county of Nógrád, and he was the parliamentary representative of the party for a period of time. During his term of office, he was a member of the Social, Family and Health Committee and a Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports. After years in the National Assembly, he was Vice-President of the General Assembly of Nógrád County, and for a cycle he was a representative of the Balassagyarmat Municipality. In addition to his political activities, he devoted his professional life to teaching. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2021-05-17-1	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, May 15, 2021 is the beginning of the end for the Orbán regime. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've heard that before!]] On May 15th, in Gergely Christmas's birth village, Nyírt me, this morning he announced that he would run for Prime Minister's candidacy and would represent 99 percent of the privileged 1 percent. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It went well four years ago!]] On May 15th, at noon, Gergely Christmas announced in Debrecen, referring to the noble traditions there, that we were preparing for a reprimand and change. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For the sake of Strabag!]] Gergely Karácsony said on 15 May and evening in Budapest that we need to make amends and reunite Hungary, because the vast majority of the inhabitants of Hungary are tired of you fighting all the time, that you are constantly using artificially aroused divisions to turn people against each other. The majority of the citizens of Hungary are tired of your arrogance, theft and urination, tired of the privileged 1 percent sucking 99 percent of their blood. People are sick and tired of their life being about politics, of power pushing in all areas of life. It takes a change for politics to finally be about life, the service of 99 percent, because you obviously forgot, politics, government service, not domination. Gergely Christmas has proven to be able to defeat the man of power with the help of the power of men. We're gonna do this again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Like four years ago?]] So that Hungary can breathe, calm down and have a peaceful home for all of us. That's why Gergely Christmas started the 99 Movement, which anyone who wants change can join. In one day, more than 10,000 people came forward to be ambassadors of change. We need to make a change and make amends after 2022, because every week, you're going to commit another assassination against the 99 percent. Such is the attempt to replace Budapest's student city with the institution or even university campus of the University of Fudan, the elite of the Chinese party state, by invoicing Hungarians for generations in excess of half a billion forints. This is the case when they submit their scandalous tenement law, where they again favour the privileged 1 percent, the fidesz buddies and the housing mafia against 99 percent, against small-scale young families who are unable to obtain a municipal tenement just so that the Bayer Zsolt, the Palkovics ministers and the Rákay Philips can buy their expensive rented luxury apartments at a fraction price. This is how you rob Dunaújváros, just like you did with Göd, the special economic zone. The inhabitants of the city, instead of 99 percent, the president of Fidesz County will receive the business tax revenues, they will take 100,000 forints a year from every Dunaújvárosi. And that's all the robbery-privatization when the Fidesz 1 percent has the national wealth of 99 percent. [[13.10]] It also shows that you have the most insufferable, indiscriminate, cynical, selfish government in the Union. But they also seem to know they're going down and they're packing. That's very good. They're just packing like the one who takes not only the min mud pan from the hotel room, but also the bed, table, TV. So we're warning you: stealing is stealing, even if it's a law, so after 2022, we're going to take back the 1% of what people have to do with it in the name of 99 percent. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-05-17-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, For more than a year now, it has been the coronal virus epidemic, the pandemic that has plagued our country, its effects on life and the economy and its health effects are extremely significant. You did not take a single sentence out of the five minutes available. He's got a spirit, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a few statements about the epidemic. We're over the third wave of the plague, but the virus is still here, and the number of vaccinees is over 4 million 639,000, including over 2 million 727 thousand already receiving the second vaccine. The success of the Hungarian vaccination programme was acknowledged by the WHO leader. The epidemic has not yet ended, the inclusion of vaccinations remains important. As far as we know, we can fight epidemics with vaccinations, which is the only way to stop them. I'd like to ask everyone not to listen to the anti-vaccination sounds. 47 percent of the Hungarian population have already been vaccinated, the EU average is 32 percent. This is important because the reboot is due to vaccinations, Hungary is the country that can return to normal life at the earliest. I don't know how much of a normal life is, but I see that the left now doesn't deal with everyday problems affecting people at the word level, but they are busy with the show called the pre-election which Ferenc Gyurcsány directed, and in which everyone has a role in character. Gergely Christmas takes such a role, who, as a candidate for the 1 percent Dialogue, made a flag [[Peter James: The 1 percent is more than the KDNP!]] And I hear that you've chosen a slogan now, and 99 percent Gyurcsány, 1 percent Christmas, or something like that, it's actually completely irrelevant. The facts are very clear: Ferenc Gyurcsány's candidate is Gergely Christmas. Between 2002 and 2010, he took up a serious position in the administration of the state, became and remained political advisor to the Prime Minister's Office from the establishment of the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who stood up with Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy, and his family company received several tens of millions of HUF from this government. At the moment, the city hall, Budapest's capital office, is full of the people of the government before 2010: Kiss Ambrus, Gy. Erzsébet Németh Deputy Mayors; Tibor Draskovics, Olga Kálmán, István Kolber, Tamás Katona, they are all Ferenc Gyurcsány's men, and I should not mention the others. Unfortunately, in your framed case history, there was a slight error, as Gergely Christmas's announcement was accompanied by several scandals, and a number of shams were discovered. The problem is not that Gergely Christmas does not speak English, although the vast majority of Hungarian people think that a prime minister or a prime minister should know at least one foreign language, the problem is that Gergely Christmas claimed that she has a language exam while it turned out that she does not have a language exam. The problem is that Gergely Christmas previously claimed that she had a scientific degree while she didn't have a scientific degree. [[Nacsa Lárinc: He lied!]] He wasn't telling the truth, he didn't open up every detail of the truth to quote an earlier classic. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány-teach!]] The problem is, I think it is sad that although there has never been a serious leader of Budapest, but they have now clearly lost a mayor, because it is quite clear that Gergely Christmas sees this position as merely a political leapboard, she does not want to represent Budapest anymore. This may be good for the people of Budapest, because so far where he has reached, there is only a scandal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Price increase!]] Expensive public procurement, irregular procurement, more money for consultants, more money for committees, more money The government is desecrating the capital for a poster campaign, this is Gergely Christmas's mayor's balance sheet. Unfortunately, it is a puppet in the hands of Ferenc Gyurcsány Gergely Christmas. The Hungarian citizens know this, they have voted against this old regime several times, and they still want wage support, debt reduction, family support and strong Hungarian representation. We are on the side of the Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-4	Now it's time for LMP's representative, Péter Ungár. I give you the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-5	Thank you. Dear Parliament, What we are talking about here is the opposition primary, and this is very important because it is my personal political credo and my community's political credo, we will be able to prove that in the new Hungary, we will not think anyone is a bad person because they have different political opinions. We're preparing for such a pre-election. This is undoubtedly a diverse opposition, and we believe that Hungary is also diverse, and that we will resolve this with a debate of diversity, not with another's personal attack. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Can you hear him on the other side?]] The fact is, according to LMP, the fundamental issue of the pre-election is that neoliberal cannot be given a neoliberal response to the past 12 years. [[13.20]] We think that the state can be a good farmer, we think that redistribution is a good thing, and we think that candidates for social and environmental sustainability should be selected in the primary election, which is why we also support Gergely Christmas as a candidate for the common prime minister of the opposition. [[István Szilárd Németh: Viva!]] The thing is, if there is a change of government in 2022, unfortunately, fellow government representatives, the world that Minister Szijjártó described as more important to you is the interests of German car manufacturers than environmental regulations. This world will end, and instead of German car manufacturers and German capital, we will govern the country for the benefit of Hungarian voters. My position is that following the Western model against Fidesz and the uncritical copying of the European Union is not a right policy. We must be able to say that the leadership of the European Union and the Fidesz are allies, and we are the opposition to both. The fact is that it seems that the Fidesz has recovered its liberal roots in recent times, because what you have done here in this Parliament has been a complete privatization of the university sphere, a thing that would probably have brought Tamás Bauer great spiritual joy; you have returned to where you started as a youth class of the Alliance of Free Democrats. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] The fact is that the economic crisis caused by the Crown Virus was not used by you to help people who lost their jobs without their own faults, or as Austria was called a laboratory, the Prime Minister would have helped the municipalities that did everything they could to provide their local citizens with services. On the other hand, you have done one thing: you have punished those who have chosen opposition government leadership. They did this in Szombathely by giving Zalaegerszeg more than two billion forints in two rounds, and Szombathely received zero forints from you. You can see that Szombathely cannot count on the Orbán government, and Csaba Hende's lobbying activity is worth nothing! Furthermore, in our opinion, the aim of the change of government is not only to lose the power of Fidesz, its aim is to prevent the public interest again; it is to ensure that the social worker, who has done everything in the epidemic to protect the most vulnerable, receives the one-off salary of HUF 500 000; to ensure that the deputy in prison who has worked in the state sector for 13 years does not receive HUF 182 thousand; to ensure that the salary of a beginner educator is not such that there are no people currently in Hungary under education in a teaching course. That's why we have to do it. Yes, it is part of eco-politics that people who work in the public sector are finally re-appreciated; that you end your war with the civil servant sector. Last time in this government, there was a real public wage increase when you didn't govern, and there was a left-wing government under Péter Medgyessy, and the next time you don't govern, it's gonna be us. The fact is that our Hungarian compatriots working in the public sector feel that their wages are constantly falling apart compared to the wages of the competition sector. And the Hungarian people know that they cannot expect high-quality public services as long as the wages of those working in the public sector do not increase. Finally, the stakes of the pre-election are to choose green candidates from a social and environmental point of view. We have these in Pécs, Érden or downtown, and we offer them to the Prime Minister, Gergely Christmas. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can conclude that the situation on the left is unchanged: as always since 2010, it is Ferenc Gyurcsány who controls left-wing processes and, as he has done three years ago, he is making Gergely Christmas in this Gyurcsány show as a candidate in advance. Nothing's changed on the left. Everything's going the same way. It is possible to talk about pre-elections, to talk about various things, honourable Member, but the point has not changed: however, you are talking about ruling on behalf of the majority for the benefit of people who are not rich, while a man who is the leader of the left in Hungary, who has become a major contractor through spontaneous privatisation, has acquired his wealth from it. If it weren't for spontaneous privatisation, that probably wouldn't have happened. In fact, a man standing here, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who would have been Prime Minister in Hungary in 2006 even if there had not been a change of regime, because whether there was a change of regime or not, it seems that this thing happened, and perhaps his Prime Ministership would have had a better chance without a change of regime than it was with a change of regime, but it did. And what are you doing in 2021? He seeks to promote the power of the same man, Ferenc Gyurcsány, from the party, honourable Member, whose name may now have been deleted, that there may be another Politics, which was created to make politics different from Ferenc Gyurcsány. And you stand up here and are trying to promote the continuation of this Gyurcsány policy here. They've got this slogan, this 99-1, which, as we know, is a slogan from New York, which was used a few years ago, and now you've knocked it off. In the meantime, he also appeared in Poland, right now he's here. 'Cause you don't even have one of your own ideas, 'cause you're gonna get this from New York, what kind of slogans you're campaigning with. [[Peter Ungár intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you say that the political team serving the needs of György Soros, who is one of the richest 1 percent of the world, or perhaps 1 ten thousand percent of the world's wealth, will govern here in Hungary, the left, and then he will govern the interests of the small people, the people who live from everyday work. Who believes this to the man of George Soros here in Hungary, who has often revealed that if his decisions have a social consequence, he has no moral responsibility? You never said no to George Soros at any request. If you asked for a law amendment here in Parliament for the sake of the Soros University, you passed through as a knife to the thought. And then you say that you are not the people of billionaires, and you are the people of Hungarian billionaires and American billionaires, but you will help people. You said they'd appreciate social workers. Honourable Congressman, Look around who you're sitting with. Look at István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, László Szakács, Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, László Hajdu, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varga, László Varju, Sándor Burány, and ask them why they have reduced the wages of social workers here in Parliament. You stand up and talk about the need to raise wages [[Gergely Harvestó: Social workers' wages have increased by a percentage in eight years!]] And you did not vote for an increase in the care fee, neither you nor your fellow parties, none of them, none of the votes from left to raise the care fee. And when we adopted the budgets that doubled the wages of social workers last year, honourable Member, even in spite of the crisis, when many countries were happy to keep their wages, we raised them then, honourable Member. We will double the wages of doctors when there is a crisis in Hungary and throughout the world because of the coronal virus epidemic, honourable Member. That is why last year we were able to raise the salaries of teachers and school principals, 10% for teachers, a significant 30-50 percent increase for school principals, honourable Member. And you say that we need to get off this road, for American and Hungarian billionaires, and that they will need to reduce their individual overhead and people will need to increase their overhead. Well, I'm sorry, but who's gonna believe that they're ever gonna be able to cancel the rent, Mr. President? Or who's gonna believe that they could ever raise a pension? We can remember the nickname of the SDS, the Alliance of Free Democrats, the Alliance of Strabag Democrats. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] All you are prepared to do is put the interests of foreign companies back above the interests of the Hungarian people in Hungary. Because you did not reduce the rent, but constantly increased it, because it was not in the interests of the Hungarian people, but in the interests of these foreign companies. It could be a road-building company, a utility company. And that's what they're going to do again. And that's why they're getting their support from abroad, which is why they're bringing their slogans from abroad. And there may be different compositions for Members here, but the key figures, Ferenc Gyurcsány or György Soros, are the same. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's been about the same for 15 years now, and there's no change. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I don't get a scholarship from anyone! Intercoms from the opposition.]] However, honourable Member, allow me to thank our doctors and nurses in the epidemic. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that we managed to prevent the United States of America in one way or another, because in Hungary the level of grafting is now higher than in the US. We hope that we can achieve many similar successes under a Fidesz-KDNP government and through the sacrifice of many people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-8	I now give the word to Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[13.30]]
u2021-05-17-9	Politicians are thinking about the next election, and the statesmen are talking about the next generation in a 19th century. 100th-century text, which I believe most of us actually accept. If that's true, and I look at the pro-government politicians and this government, I have to say, I don't see any statesmen. I'm not saying this because I want to hurt you. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Ah, no, not at all!]] Insulting is definitely not [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're not like that!]] But I'm going to tell you why I'm telling you this. For once, I will not speak for those who are indemnified by your government, who may feel that your country, your life, is being robbed and crippled by you. The reason they're not speaking for them is because even if they're difficult, they can somehow speak for themselves and represent themselves, I'm telling you, even if they don't have equal careers and equal opportunities here. But there are some people who can't speak for themselves, there are people who can't represent themselves: those who don't have the right to represent themselves yet, and even those who haven't been born yet. I would like to speak for them in the future in Hungary. You can say that everything is all right, let me say that everything is not all right. I'll give you simple examples, they'll understand. Am I right when I speak for those who will have to pay the pensions of our age group in the coming years and for those born in the coming years, because you, under the leadership of the congresswoman, have put your hands on more than 3000 billion forints of private savings, spent it and left it to the next generation. I would like to speak for the generation that will not have the opportunity to rent state land for a long time, because they gave it to their own people, and we are about to say that Lőrinc Mészáros or Sándor Csányi has more land than the Esterházys before the Second World War. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not true!]] Indeed, it must be for those who take away the future. It must be said for those who will not have the opportunity to represent their own university, representing their future, to intervene in the life of the university, because university independence will cease, and instead, the autonomy of the foundations that you have filled, to which you have actually given the universities without compensation. I would like to speak for those who cannot attend one of the best universities in Europe and Hungary, because you have expelled the Central European University. [[Tamás János Schanda: It's not true! Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's around the corner! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, I would like to speak for those of you who will be obliged to pay for the relentless loans you have taken and take to build the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, which you have hired to build the Chinese university, and we will pay for it, it will be paid by the next generation. And yes, I speak for those of you who will be shut down by the end of the century and locked up with nuclear energy and all its burdens, because you have decided to do so, without them, even without their parents, without their questions. And I'm speaking for those from whom you wish to take the municipal tenements, I speak for those who will not have the opportunity to turn to the municipality, that I am in trouble, that I should have a local government apartment, because you are taking them prisoner. I'm usually saying that when you think you're restricting the scope of the next government with everything you're doing, you're wrong: you're limiting the possibility of the next age groups to sort the world out the way they want. You steal their future, you lock it in the past that is created here at these moments, but for them, for the new ones, it will be the past, and they will despise themselves, because you are thieves, and not just the land, the money, but the future, the opportunity, the thieves of a new world. Well, they're gonna lose morally, historically, politically, and they're gonna deserve it. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Dr. Pál Völner: You are the past!]]
u2021-05-17-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-05-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We're always thinking that when he comes to the National Assembly from a large fork in Buda, it's from a confiscated villa. [[Gergely Harvestó: Don't try anything unnecessary.]] Then I wonder how you feel about saying he's a thief, but it's your conscience's job. Who is a statesman and who isn't, who can be a statesman and who can't, and then the voters decide, and history will judge. As far as the situation of future generations is concerned, we may agree that a government should also take this into account in each case. Let me ask you a few questions. Why didn't you think of the next generations when you sold a significant part of the Hungarian industry? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Why didn't they think of them when they turned the government debt in over 80 percent? Why didn't you think of the next generations when you cut the family support system? (Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!) They have done so, and if I looked at their proposals, they would do so now: for example, they would not link subsidies to work and tax incentives would be abolished and written. As far as the land is concerned, let's just say that if it were up to you, a large part of the Hungarian land would already be owned abroad. [[More of the ruling parties: That's right!]] It was this government that held the Hungarian lands in domestic hands. By the way, this government is giving support to all generations, both the elderly and the young: it is gradually giving back to the elderly the 13th month's pension that you have taken away from them, and young people will receive tax exemptions from next year! So they won't have to pay income tax. If we look at your proposals, they're even talking about a 30-percent tax rate, and then you're coming with the situation of the next generations. As regards other aspects of public life, you referred to this at the beginning of your speech. Now we see that there are other episodes of the show called the primary, and we are not the only ones who say that it is a show, HVG. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Wow! Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] And what you claim to be a pre-election is basically a pre-arranged thing, including the presidential candidates, the vast majority of local candidates. As I understand it, you announced this weekend that after Klára Dobrev, Gergely Christmas will be nominated as Prime Minister. Well, when we heard that, we thought about one thing: what is the achievement that would make Gergely Christmas worthy of the role of Prime Minister? [[Gergely Harvesto: The fact that he beat you!]] It will soon be two years before the Mayor of Budapest, and in that time he would have had plenty of opportunity to prove himself. Instead, we saw nothing but grief, finger-pointing, responsibilities, and a thousand explanations of why he couldn't do it. If we were to have the task of putting together a lot of results in an hour, the most important results of the city hall, then the fact is that an hour would pass, and we would still be sitting over an empty sheet, maybe drawing an insect hotel, but let's not consider it a decisive achievement. For example, all pensioners were promised heating subsidies, but they didn't; they promised a green city, but the traffic jams look at it. Bigger than ever [[Gergely Harvestó: Because parking is free!]] ; and responsible public finance management has been promised, but in the case of the renewal of the Chain Bridge, only the increase in costs is higher than the delay. Perhaps the question arises as to why, in my answer to you, I am bringing up Gregory Christmas's candidacy. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: No.]] There is a good reason for this: we do not think for one minute that Gergely Christmas is a single candidate. How could it be when the party you represent doesn't reach 1 percent? Everyone knows that Gergely Christmas is your candidate, and you're doing this show just as much as you've done virtually anything in the last few years. Let me quote Zsolt Gréczy, Zsolt Gréczy's colleague: without Gyurcsány, you cannot win. The one standing behind Gyurcsány can win. This is your position. The complete picture includes the fact that you have arranged such a piece: then you asked Péter Medgyessy [[Ferenc Gyurcsány intervenes.]] To play a role and then take it off the stage with one move when he thought it was time for you to step on it, and that's what he's about to do. They may try to deny it sometimes for tactical reasons, but they do it in vain, because, as you said yesterday, Gergely Christmas practically presented your program. He didn't say what he used to say, by the way, that he said that he had put forward the same program as yours, that he had put it this way. So, the slogan about 99 percent and 1 percent is pretty much true in that if we choose this band, it means 99 percent of you, 99 percent Ferenc Gyurcsány and up to 1 percent of Gergely Christmas. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is a heavy cocktail that I do not think Hungary can afford in a year's time or a year's time. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-05-17-12	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth.
u2021-05-17-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You know what I see these days when I look at Fidesz and KDNP representatives besides anxiety? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that what you're saying?]] Students who not only fail, but even steal class money. [[István Szilárd Németh: Hoppá!]] We're about to get a certificate, and they know what they've done so far. [[Németh Szilárd István: The Saving Stamp!]] There's only one grade for that: insufficient. Instead of trying to improve, however, they cheat, steal, and threaten, they try to make everyone think that they see badly, but they also follow their own personal interests. Take, for example, the events of this morning, and I can give you some very recent examples. The Economic Committee held a meeting, and they had to decide on two legislative proposals for what would come before the plenary session. One was the proposal of a young but experienced Fidesz representative, which serves the interests of a narrow, typically more wealthy group and the home mafia. In short, it is about how the municipal housing system is executed in order to enrich a narrow, wealthy elite. That was one of the suggestions. The other is an opposition, MSZP proposal aimed at catching up low salaries for around 2 million 300 000 workers. He noted that the minimum wage should be tax-free and that the level of below-average salaries should be reduced so that the Hungarian minimum wage should not be passed after the Slovak, Czech, Polish or Romanian minimum wage, but that the Hungarian worker should also receive a fair wage for his decent work, which he can earn with honor. Well, this committee meeting is off. Guess what you think they did with the housing mafia bill on the Fidesz MEPs on Erik Bánki's committee. That's right, they voted for the House Mafia bill, they voted for it. And what do you think the Fidesz guys did with the low pay bill? That's right, they voted no, because they think it's okay for the lowest salaries to be taxed in the same way as the income of Mr. Lőrinc Mészáros. Aren't you ashamed? You don't think small-money people are entitled to greater prosperity? It's pretty amazing. I was almost nervous not to get lost, and once, by accident, a positive proposal from a wide group of Hungarians was supported instead of a proposal that served a criminal circle, which took national property. But the Fidesz MEPs didn't disappoint us, that's exactly what we expected from this team; it's a parasite policy they're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government and the Fidesz elite have been doing this for eleven years, essentially in all areas. After eleven years of two thirds of Parliament, it is really impossible to explain why you let the public health care system go down. There is no explanation for the need to drive away nearly 5,000 doctors and nurses in addition to the government's full power. Why couldn't mass testing be organized? Why didn't you throw a lifeline to hundreds of thousands of people affected by a livelihood crisis in the wake of the epidemic? Why are local governments being eviscerated in times of crisis? In 11 years, more and more Hungarians live in impossible conditions, and the danger of slipping down is becoming more and more widespread. However, the leaders of the Fidesz regime and their oligarchs only care about theft: they load the nation's wealth into fidesz private foundations, fill their pockets with Chinese and Russian money, and sell out the country: they build a university to China for HUF 500 billion, and in return they even owe the Hungarian people; they want to spend 10-30 percent on local government rentals to play the real estate for the Fidesz buddies and the housing mafia. Ladies and gentlemen, We need a change of government and a change of era. The failed student must be accounted for, a free, fair, solidarity-based country, and the rule of one percent must be broken for our common future, Hungary.
u2021-05-17-14	To reply, the floor is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, If failure is the issue, then the position of the MSZP is indeed an exciting question, since you have a great deal of experience in this matter. But, honourable Member, allow me to try to correct the countless false news and the countless lies you have told in your speech. After all, you've already been to government, you've shown us what it means to govern the left, how you think things are. We remember this government well: this government was all about taking into account their own self-interests and ignoring the interests of the Hungarian people completely. When you are attacking the government's actions, you are attacking the measures, questioning the measures that are created for the benefit of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. Honourable Congressman, You know very well that one of the most important priorities of the national civilian government is to provide Hungarian people, Hungarian families, with homes, housing and own housing. Honourable Congressman, What did you do, on the other hand? You have eliminated all opportunities, taken away all the support that would have helped this. In recent years, and after that, we have been working to make our own housing available to as many Hungarians as possible. Honourable Congressman, It is also false when you talk about jobs and wages. We are well aware that unemployment has peaked during your period, and employment has been at a record low level. On the other hand, we could also see that when the national civilian government took over the responsibility for governance, it made exactly the change where it focused on work and access to work, and the results of this programme, the result of this direction, are visible. Honourable Congressman, You are well aware of the figures, you know that we have taken unprecedented measures to ensure that every Hungarian person who wants to work can work. This was also the case in the past period. Honourable Congressman, You should know that only by means of measures over the past period has we been able to provide more than 1 million 660 000 workers with assistance that could contribute to the preservation of their own jobs or the creation of a new job. Honourable Congressman, As a result, unemployment in Hungary decreased to 4 percent in March 2021, which is a very serious result. By March alone, there were 66,000 more people working than in February, and employment was over 4.6 million, so we have reached the level that we were able to reach in the period before the coronal virus epidemic. Honourable Congressman, You know that, and if you didn't want to deceive the Hungarian people, you could actually admit that we have made significant progress in the case of wages as well. Of course, we are always working on it and we want the Hungarian people to make more money. But, honourable Member, do not lie about the results that we have achieved in recent years with the help of Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people. In February 2021, net wages were 9.8 percent higher than in the previous year, with real wages rising by 6.6 percent. Since 2010, i.e. since your governance, net real earnings have increased by one and a half times. One and a half times, Your Honour. These are serious results. You also mentioned health care in your speech. Let's not go over this, honourable Member. Let's not go further, because we all know that health care is not in the same condition as you left after your government: hospital development in the countryside worth HUF 500 billion [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] and 700 billion HUF programme was launched in Budapest. You've shut down health care, we're developing it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.50]]
u2021-05-17-16	Now, the leader of the Jobbik faction, James Peter.
u2021-05-17-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Hungary's luxury minister, Péter Szijjártó, knows that the yachter said very modestly the other day that Hungary was the most successful in handling the crisis in Europe. Are you serious? Do you really think it's a success that 30,000 Hungarians died in this country? Do you really think it's a success that nearly half a million of our countrymen are no longer employed? Do you really think it's a success that, in one day, 5,500 medical workers have been chased out of our hospitals? You think it's a success that half the country has a vaccine ID and the other half rebels against it? ! Is it a success that in the midst of a crisis, you were able to jump the Hungarians? ! Or do you think it's a success that the state fortune has been transferred to the Fidesz foundations? Or that our children were also indebted to Russia and China? Colleagues! Is that your success? Or is it that the crisis has been pulled out all the way up here without a forint of substantial support being given to Hungarian workers? Is that your success? ! This? By the way, what about the slave law, you guys? Huh? [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] How about...
u2021-05-17-18	Congressman, ease up, please. Don't insult your fellow Members, because I'm going to take the floor from you. This is the last time I'm gonna warn you that next time I'm not gonna do this. Go on.
u2021-05-17-19	I can have that opinion of you, can't I? [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] So how do you feel about the Fidesz Constitutional Court saying...
u2021-05-17-20	Congressman!
u2021-05-17-21	... againstthelaw... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2021-05-17-22	Congressman, please sit down. I cut you off.
u2021-05-17-23	[[Without sound:]] So what do you say, fellow Members, that... [[James opens his arms and turns to the president.]] Mr. President. Can't that be my opinion?
u2021-05-17-24	Have a seat. [[Peter James: Where is freedom of speech?]] Have a seat. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. It's a lot of noise.]] Take a seat and study the house rules in which... [[Peter James constantly intervenes.]] study the house rules in which there are several places where you can't insult your fellow Members [[Peter James: Only the liar is offended!]] And especially not the Speaker of the House, the President of the Chamber. Have a seat. [[Noise in the benches of opposition parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Master! Peter James: Buy Persian carpets, boy! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're tough! Noise.]] Congressman, there's gonna be consequences, not just for today's session, but for the rest of the day, so... [[Peter James: Consequence?]] Yes, yes, Congressman, until then, hire a consultant to brief you on the mysteries of the house rules. Imre Vejkey, from KDNP. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You can only do this abomination for a year! Intercoms from both sides.]]
u2021-05-17-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The fight against the first, second and third waves of the coronal virus epidemic has been successfully fought by our country. According to international analyses, Hungary is one of the world's most defensive countries, both from a health and epidemiological point of view and from an economic point of view. Nevertheless, a stream of left-wing siren sounds is heard, although it is undisputed that the harmful consequences of the coronal virus crisis have been successfully reduced by the complex measures of the government and are being successfully mitigated. So these siren sounds are trying to influence people against the facts. We have seen this before: when the Communist Stalin was told that this was not a fact, he said that the facts were gone. Therefore, remember: if the epidemic treatment had been on the left hand side, hundreds of thousands more would be in danger. So the united left also took a nasty turn in the case of an epidemic. In this case, defence is a national matter. Dissuading people from vaccination or inciting distrust of some vaccines is more than a mistake. I have to say, if there's a problem, there's no way to count on the left. Ladies and Gentlemen, The epidemiological data in Hungary is constantly becoming more favourable, due to the fact that more than four and a half million of our countrymen have already been vaccinated and the defence is effective. Thanks to the government's measures, we are now at a point where, on the one hand, we can say that we are past the third wave of the epidemic and, on the other hand, we can say that Hungary can return to normal life at the earliest. But in spite of all the positive things, remember, the plague has not yet ended. It is therefore important that we continue to comply with the protection rules on the one hand and that the vaccination be taken by as many people as possible, which are essential for our safe lives. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary is at the forefront of vaccination. It is currently the tenth in the world and the first in Europe in this regard. That's a good score. However, this is a special competition, and we must not look at it as if it is not for the lives of Hungarian people. We must not allow the spirit of competition to be more important than the stakes of competition, human life. Unfortunately, we couldn't save everyone. We're losing a lot of money. Therefore, while we are talking about being the first in vaccination, we must remember that compassion, the help in putting up with pain, must remain first. Therefore, the Hungarian parliamentary prayer group continues to pray that those who died in the virus receive eternal light from the Lord, and those who suffer from the disease receive the grace of physical and spiritual healing. Please join me in the prayer call from my grandfather every Friday morning at 7 a.m. for the rapid passing of Covid from our country, Europe and the world. Together with my colleague, Mónika Dunai, we will initiate a collection of the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary factions for the benefit of the Foundation for Children who have remained orphaned or half orphaned because of the Crown Virus, founded by President János Áder and his wife, Anita Herczegh. Please support this foundation, the name of which is István Regőczi Foundation, and the contact details of the foundation on the Internet: regoczialapitvany.hu. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thanks to the government's actions, there are as many people working today as before the virus. Of course, it also required the healing work of doctors and nurses, since everyone who was humanly cured was cured. Therefore, thank you to doctors and nurses, as well as to all those involved in the fight against the virus. Ladies and Gentlemen, This week is the place for next year's budget in Parliament to restart the economy. The 2022 budget is capable of making Hungary a major growth path in European comparison. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That way, he gets out of the crisis more than he got in. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-26	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, every week we thank those health care workers who have been able to survive and have been able to cope with the fact that, indeed, the health care system in the countries of the world that are richer than we are, has not been as successful as it is here in Hungary. [[A voice from the opposition benches:]] If we look at where we stand, for example, in grafting, Hungary is in the first twelve countries in the world, and this is due to the fact that we have acquired vaccines from much more sources than European countries on the one hand, and that the whole administration system, hospitals and vaccination points work well, and while in other countries it is only a fantasy, but in Hungary it is possible to make electronic appointments, choose a vaccine and go to vaccinations. This is unthinkable elsewhere, in countries richer than us, and we have both the date and the vaccine, and this is not only a theoretical option, because it may have been suggested elsewhere as a theoretical possibility, but it actually has a choice for people. The result of this superhuman health work is that in Hungary there is already 47.1 percent grafting, which is higher than in the most powerful superpower in the world, in the US. At present, the most powerful state in the world is militaryly, economically and politically the United States of America: there is 46.7 percent grafting, with us 47.1. However, if someone in the world can take every opportunity because they have economic, military and political power, it is the USA, but thanks to Hungary, many professionals and many people who have contributed to the purchase of vaccines have managed to bring the level of protection of Hungarian people to a higher level than the United States of America. Thank you all for doing this. Unfortunately, to whom there is nothing to thank, it is precisely the Hungarian left, the parties and politicians of the Hungarian left. For example, in the capital city they used the epidemic situation to provide the resources that they had received for example for testing or testing in the socialist era of interest to József Kern. Nothing's changed on the left. Any such occasion is given to a company where the institution's managing director is Tamás Székely, former left-wing minister. All the money that was intended for defense seems to have landed a good part of them right in the left moonyard in one second. [[14.00]] And what else did they do? There have been no votes here in Parliament to extend the emergency situation several times, which would have meant the end of the protection measures if there had been no emergency, from border closure to curfew restrictions or the safer functioning of hospitals. They were spreading false news. They said that the Crown Virus Act is important in order to build a dictatorship in Hungary, of course, we have always heard this for 11 years and so that the elections can be postponed. A few weeks ago, the election in London was re-elected as mayor, which was indeed postponed a year due to the epidemic. In Hungary, of course, no one had any similar intentions, while in Western Europe such things happened, but it was not a democratic problem for the left. They were spreading false news. For example, in the early stages of the epidemic, they said that there wasn't enough protective equipment, there were only 8 million in the warehouses. At that moment, there were 80 million protective equipment in the warehouses, so it was a zero more than they set up abroad. They went into hospitals without permission and presented protective equipment for visitors as if doctors and nurses had protective equipment. This congressman has been reported by the hospital leaders. They attacked the officer, attacked every epidemiological expert who didn't say what they wanted to hear, even threatened anyone who spoke as a professional leader on a professional basis, and didn't recite political sentences that were considered important by the left, of course, and their experts said sentences that it was better to catch the disease in the epidemic than to receive vaccination. They said we weren't operating on the basis of the WHO protocol, but we did. In a Kamuvideo, Louis Korózs claimed that nine out of ten patients would die, but it turned out that none of this was true, not even the person's introduction. They said there was no need to prepare beds during the outbreak for patients with the coronal virus, and then when the numbers rose, they said why there were no more beds like this. They lied that half a million forints of additional health benefits should be claimed separately. Fake statistics were produced in 2016 and with mortality data in 2016 they wanted to illustrate the number of victims of the epidemic. They said that the testing teams went without protective equipment, which you, a medical college student, disproved that they had all the protective equipment. They wouldn't have held a degree in two years now, taking away the possibility for students to continue their studies, and there were many other reasons, and, above all, the parliamentary decision proposal, in which Eastern vaccines would have been banned. Politicalization of the left was a major threat to the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-28	I now give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, Gabriella Selmeczi. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Almost half of the people in Hungary have already acquired the vaccine against the Crown Virus. That's a very good result, a very high number. The epidemiological data have been continuously improving for weeks, both the number of new infected and the number of deaths have decreased significantly. According to two recognised international statistics, Hungary is also at the forefront of grafting. We are the tenth in the world, and we are the leader in the European Union. Today, young people aged 16-18 years, some 96,000 registered young people, who may soon be protected from the virus by taking Pfizer vaccine, continue to be vaccinated. This required that the government obtains sufficient, effective and safe vaccines. But that was not an easy task, was it, after the left had attacked the defense, the government, the CDC, the medical staff as well. This was the Kamuvideo and fake statistics of Lajos Korózs, but this was the case for nine out of ten sent home patients who died and lied. People were trying to tease each other by making a political distinction between vaccine and vaccine. Nothing is expensive to them, because to this day they think the worse the country is, the worse the Hungarians, the better for them. They can also play with people's lives in the hope of becoming more popular with their actions. With all their strength, they try to create mistrust and even hatred in Hungarian society. Ladies and gentlemen, Left-wing politicians were able to throw the pain of the relatives of those who died in the coronal virus into the political communication market. That's them, that's the left. Last spring Hungary recognized the need to prepare for the fight against the virus as soon as possible. During the past nearly a year and a half, every Hungarian's life has changed, whether it's work, entertainment, school, sport or family relations. Thank you for the discipline and enforcement of Hungarian people in difficult times. It was difficult, because fear of the unknown enemy, the virus, caused uncertainty in society, and this fear was tried by the left to ride and try to use it for their own benefit. The most serious crime the left has ever committed since January is to try to coordinate society against vaccinations, thus preventing them from taking them in slow motion and thus prolonging the duration of the epidemic. It is not the vaccines that should be feared, but the virus, its serious, potentially fatal consequences. Thousands of people lost their lives because they believed the anti-vaccination left parties, who first denied that there was a virus, there is a virus, they denied its seriousness, and later tried to undermine their confidence in vaccines, Hungarian professionals and the Hungarian health system. Ladies and gentlemen, In Europe, we were uniquely vaccinated with six vaccines. There's a vaccine for everyone who wants it. Hungary is the only place where people can choose between vaccines, everywhere else they are obliged to accept the offer. Ladies and gentlemen, At this point, we can say that the Left's anti-vaccination campaign has failed. Based on the number of people registered, it is not impossible that the number of people vaccinated will reach six million, but it is up to the people, and it is up to us, and it is up to their individual decision to take this vaccine. Some of the previous epidemiological measures are still in force and some restrictions have therefore been lifted. We welcome Prime Minister's announcement on Friday that all Hungarians can now register and come home for vaccination, live anywhere in the world. Of course, this was also immediately attacked by the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány's man, Zsolt Gréczy gives the mood to fight vaccines. The support and assistance of the Hungarian people are regularly attacked by the left. Ladies and gentlemen, Left-wingers! They are Hungarians, but the border has migrated over their heads. But you don't understand, or you don't want to deal with it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-30	State Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer. I give you the floor.
u2021-05-17-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is true that the virus is still here, and we must continue to defend ourselves, but perhaps the number of vaccinated people in Hungary has exceeded 4.6 million people, and the fact that the Hungarian vaccination process is by far the best and most effective in Europe gives us the opportunity to look back a little bit on what has happened over the past period. We've been fighting the coronal virus for a year and a half now, and we've been fighting it, and it's been clear to everyone from the start, and I think it's also agreed that the only weapon against the coronal virus is the vaccine, the vaccine. The Hungarian government's position was also clear and clear from the beginning, and we said that it is not important where a vaccine comes from, the only important thing is that it is effective and safe, and if it is like this, we will get the vaccine based on the decisions of Hungarian professionals and doctors. This decision is based on the fact that we have not only Western vaccines, but also Chinese Sino-pharm and Russian Sputnik vaccines. It is all due to the fact that, as I said, the number of vaccinees in Hungary exceeded 4.6 million, at least 47 percent received the first vaccine, while the EU average roams somewhere around 30 percent, and then 20 percent is the difference. Regarding the first vaccination, as the Secretary of State of Rétvári has already reported on several lines, we have caught up with the United States by 47 percent. As far as the second vaccinations are concerned, 27.5 percent received the second vaccination in Hungary, which is 10-11 percent in Germany; 27.5 is compared to 10-11 percent. [[14.10]] I would also like to stress that by having an Eastern vaccine, we won a month and a half, so the 4 million grafts would not have been achieved at the end of April without Eastern vaccines, but would have remained in the middle of June for a month and a half. This also means that we have an advantage of one and a half to two months compared to other European countries. Dear House, I would also like to point out that I have had the opportunity to attend a number of operational tribal meetings in the last year and a half. Most of these were led by Prime Minister, some of them by Minister of the Interior, and, as a matter of fact, my own Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, we also talked constantly, and he kept giving me the tasks. None of them ever mentioned the left at these meetings, the fact that we should defeat the left was not mentioned by left-wing politicians. There is one thing that has always been mentioned: to get vaccination, to get vaccine, to give vaccination to Hungarian people, because the vaccine and vaccine have saved lives. The issue of vaccine procurement, which is a life-saving issue, was raised by the Hungarian left in the political space. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] There was and there was a cooperation between the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government on life saving and vaccine procurement. The Hungarian left was left out of this cooperation voluntarily, because it was said that this was not important to them. By the way, it was not the government that was betrayed, honourable colleagues, but the Hungarian people, which I would like to emphasise. The Hungarian People Betrayed [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a lie, but it doesn't change anything.]] when an anti-vaccination policy was chosen and continued. The Eastern vaccines were attacked in every way, DK organised a petition, announced at a press conference that this vaccine was not needed. Ferenc Gyurcsány was here not so long ago, but he left his magical personality here only for a short time, or he made us rejoice only for a short time, even though I wanted to mention to him that he put the lives of Hungarians at risk with his anti-vaccination policy. [[Noise.]] Mr. James, who was just here, but I hear he left Parliament in the midst of slappings. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He called the life-saving vaccine something Chinese. I would like to point out to the honourable Members that today the Sinopharm vaccine protects the lives of about a million Hungarians, and the Russian vaccine will protect the lives of 900 thousand Hungarians, and today there is a professional consensus throughout the world that these vaccines are effective and safe. [[Noise. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] This was last said by WHO, World Health Organization, and he said that he would recommend Chinese vaccine over 60 years of age. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] 'Cause there's no sign of...
u2021-05-17-32	Congressman Harvester, stop yelling at me, please.
u2021-05-17-33	... that it would affect the elderly differently than the young. You must account for your own conscience. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke of moral failure a few minutes ago. You failed again. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-34	I note, fellow Members, that the noise level has also increased with the increase in the number of people, so I would ask you to be patient in listening to the comments that remain. It is now up to Félix Farkas to make a statement before the agenda of the Roma minority. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Every year and every anniversary, we remember the horrors of the Nazi era, and at every opportunity we remind everyone of these horrors, so that this cannot happen again in the history of mankind. 16 May is the day of Roma courage and youth. On that day, in 1944 thousands of men, women, children, young and old stood up against the firing squad. No one talked about the Roma Holocaust, the Pharrajimos for decades. Then, after a while, the Roma themselves realized that we had to face the grave legacy of our people, and every year it was important to remember the long silenced facts. In 2006, at a meeting of the European Roma Forum in a concentration camp, 16 May was declared a day of courage and youth for Roma. Today we dare to talk about the pain our relatives, our ancestors have experienced in concentration camps. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] A lot of people went through it, but they didn't make it. They weren't Roma, they weren't Jews, they were people with whom these heartbreaking horrors couldn't have happened. The facts are that in 1944, on 16 May, the Zigeunerlagers were about to be destroyed, and the residents of the "Z" camp were to be gassed. The people in the barracks learned from a Polish political prisoner, Joachimovsky, that on this day they would be sent to their death. The people of the Gypsy camp were supposed to go to the gong. However, when the bell rang on May 16th, no Gypsy moved. Armed with handcuffs, chains, shovels, knives, tools, stones, they fought against the SS soldiers with the machine gun. After no such resistance was anticipated, the Nazis abandoned their mass murder plans on May 16th. More than 6,000 men have defied the armed forces. They resisted. They were brave. They wanted their fundamental right. All they wanted was to live. And while it is true that the inhabitants of the Z-camp had been separated, and it was a matter of time before they died, they were saved, and they witnessed their courage, their will to live. They were heroes, and we not only remember them every year, but we also set an example for society. It is not easy to recall the history of our ancestors year after year. The loss of our people at this time causes us pain, and it is shocking to face the horrors of the age, but I think that the day of Roma courage and youth gives us every year an opportunity to express that life is stronger than death, we, the offspring, must move on, we must go on and show that the diversity of our people is not lost, but added to the world. Now, hopefully, everyone knows that anti-Semitism and racism are endangering the proper functioning of our society. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, hundreds of thousands and one and a half million Roma were victims of devastating political fanaticism and cruel ideology, but in total millions were killed. They were all innocent. Thousands of people said no to the inhuman humiliation and unfairness of the Gypsy on that day, May 16, 1944. They were all brave. And we're saying no to anti-Gypsy right now. We say no to the presence of anti-Semitic, racist ideas, just as we said no to the candidates for Judaism. We no longer want a series of Roma murders, we don't want a Hungarian Guard, and we don't want hate speech. And we don't want the Jobbik that is preparing for the 2022 elections hand in hand with the socialists today, even though not so long ago, with their anti-Gypsy manifestations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They've shocked all the good people. We don't want them either. And it is good that today, thanks to the current government, the Fundamental Law protects the interests and values of nationalities.
u2021-05-17-36	Mr. Speaker, your five-minute time is up.
u2021-05-17-37	Like all nationalities, we can freely assume, preserve and inherit our identity and diversity on our offspring. So today, let's remember our brave heroes. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-38	Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to answer.
u2021-05-17-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, First of all, I would like to thank you for this speech before the agenda, for the speech in which you reminded us of the Roma heroes of 16 May 1944, on the day of Roma courage and youth, here in the Hungarian Parliament, and reminded us of the Roma Holocaust, the terrible thing that never, ever happens and never happens. Nazis and other regimes are estimated to have killed half a million ruins in each country, destroying over 80 percent of the population. In one night, on the night of August 2-3, 1944, 2897 Roma were killed, mostly women, children and the elderly, in the concentration camp in Auschwitz-Birkenau. [[14.20]] Few people note that the Roma were not only sufferers of the events, but they are also associated with a fine example of resistance that is considered impossible. As Mr. Spokesman said and reminded us, they disobeyed the command, with stones and sticks, with the handles stretched out of the bunks, with glass pots broken out of the window, with everything that could be used to carve a weapon, they defended themselves against their attackers. For decades, the Roma genocide, referred to as the forgotten Holocaust, has been left out of history until 1982. At that time, West Germany acknowledged this horror, and we now record it as a crime against all mankind. When the European Roma Forum was established in 2005, it proposed celebrating 16 May as a day of courage and youth for Roma around the world, so that not only memory of victims but also action and resistance would be symbolic. In 2009, the Council of Europe recognised the Roma Holocaust as genocide and genocide and called on the Member States to educate the school about it. A manual was published on 2 August 2014 entitled The Right to Remember, which helped teachers and youth trainers to clarify what happened and the reasons for it. The European Parliament recognised the historical fact of Roma genocide, deportation and internation during World War II and called on Member States to take a similar step. Dear Parliament, Racial persecution has also spared Roma communities in Hungary. Today, thanks to today's government, the Fundamental Law protects the interests and values of nationalities, and, like all nationalities, the Roma are free to accept, preserve and inherit their own identity and diversity. Today, Honourable Parliament, let us remember the heroes of the Roma heroes of 16 May 1944, but let us also remember that in the Hungarian National Assembly not so long ago, not only in the National Assembly, but also in other areas of the country, Jobbik's representatives have made manifestations that have caused fear in the Roma community. They wanted to intimidate them, and they did anti-Gypsy manifestations. To this day, Jobbik has not apologized. In fact, not only did he not apologize, but in preparation for the 2022 elections, bringing together the left, the socialists, DK, the Momentum, and the Dialogue, they are preparing to be put on the government, and they have done such manifestations, which have not been withdrawn to this day, and they still create fear in the Roma community. [[Gergely Harvesto: Gyöngyöspata!]] Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary protects Roma communities. Today, let us remember our brave heroes, the Romani heroes of 16 May 1944. Thank you, Mr Speaker, for your speech before the agenda. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-40	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-05-17-41	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Varju, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Mr Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz; On Wednesday, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik. On Thursday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Friday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Anita Kőrösi Potocsányé, Jobbik.
u2021-05-17-42	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Result appearing on the table: present 147, away 52.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a time-frame negotiation. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the fact that T/16118 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2021-05-17-43	Dear Parliament, The proposed 30-hour timeframe is divided into 617 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 283 minutes for the KDNP Group, 208 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 194 minutes for the MSZP Group, 152 minutes for the DK Group, 131 minutes for the LMP Group, 125 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 90 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. Paragraph 2 (2) (h) provides that, if you have applied to speak through the leader of the group, it is possible, if you have applied directly, to an independent representative within a 7-minute time frame, beyond the 30-hour time frame. The representative of the ethnic minority invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, who spoke in the House Rules 37th floor. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2021-05-17-44	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask this House, and you agree that T/16118. We will discuss this in a 30-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal for a time-frame negotiation was adopted by the House by 125 votes in favour, 22 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, I would like to inform you that P/16238 on the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee in 2021. A proposal for a amendment to the political declaration No 17 29 hours after the adoption of the agenda can be submitted by its representatives. I declare that, according to the House Committee's decision, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda. Now, at 2:30 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who elsewhere have important work to do, to leave the Chamber quietly and quickly. Quiet and quick! [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[14.30]] Dear House, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by the State Secretary of the Ministry for Innovation and Technology with responsibility for tasks and competences. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the first three quarters of 2020, 1100 properties were emptied and more than 3,000 of our countrymen were on the verge of eviction. In Veresegyháza there is a residential park and two residential parks next to each other, now 220 families can expect an eviction because in recent times, when you say that it is a family-friendly government, it is done at the level of words, but it is less evident in action. In Veresegyháza, in an environment surrounded by trees, these two residential parks are a real family-friendly place. It's also known as the Children's Park. Like I said, it's two housing parks. One is on 90 percent alert, 100 families are waiting for him. There are 100 families waiting for the ma-sik, but they're only on 20 percent alert. I've been to the scene and I've seen torsos rising, and it's quite an amazing and disappointing sight. The saddest part is that families have paid off these properties or a significant part of them has already been handed over to investors. Years of families, pay for families, CSOK, discount loans are nice words, but when someone puts their savings into a project that later falls, then the families are sad and desperate, because these two projects fell. You promised and believed these families that state aid would come and they did, because according to the government decree, they classified both companies as strategically important economic organisations, which carried out and executed the I and II stages, but failed to save the families. Again, 220 families. 110 families would need approximately HUF 130-140 million to complete this construction and will be granted permission to use it. Forint 1.6 billion is the estimated amount from which tors can be completed and families can finally move in. When we see billions going to the World Hunting Exhibition, never returning to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or stadiums, we rightly ask why, when the state declared it strategically important, there is the state, the partner, in the liquidation, and why they do nothing. What's the liquidator gonna do? You have two options: either you tell me you're selling the already paid... I can't stress this, the families have already paid or put a significant amount into these apartments, or you'll pay the liquidator again; or the liquidator will auction these real estates [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And these families are being evicted. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-46	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-05-17-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to highlight more of your mistakes. On the one hand, you are confusing strategically high-priority investments and strategically high-priority entities, while there is no correlation between these two concepts, it is merely a material mistake to confuse these two things with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me also to inform you that in the case referred to by you, residents of housing parks, i.e. where the creditors concerned reside, have the right to set-off and pre-purchase. Therefore, the fact that a public insolvencyist can be talked about before the courts and the public authorities is important. He also recovered the building permit for the housing parks concerned, precisely to help the residents. The superintendent also makes every effort to obtain a permit for use. This also shows that we are not talking about this issue, we are not trying to have a false political debate on this issue, but we are trying to help Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We all know that one of Jobbik's favorite campaign topics is eviction, but it is quite sad and unworthy that you are trying to make political profit to yourself and the Gyurcsány coalition at the expense of other people. That is indeed a shame, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Moreover, because we know and you know that the root of eviction is the serious legacy of left-wing governance. Left-wing governments have trapped more than one million families with foreign exchange loans, eliminated previous housing support systems, which have provided state guarantees and offered a cheap form of lending. Moreover, the left-wing governments, when the problem came in 2008, did not provide any help to the Hungarian families, while the loans were being paid high, the interest rates were gone, and the left-wing government did nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was just the national civilian government who helped families in distress, saving hundreds of thousands of families from the bondage of foreign currency loans, including by paying off, clearing or forging banks Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me also to tell you that during an emergency, the government is also paying close attention to families living in difficult financial circumstances, those in vulnerable situations. According to the Government Decree in force, it is only 15 days after the end of the emergency that private individuals' dwellings may be emptied or auctioned. That is why it is particularly outrageous and particularly sad if it is up to you and the left. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This would not happen either, since you do not support the extension of the emergency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-48	I will once again give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2021-05-17-49	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer because you talked about everything but what I asked you about is where the promised state aid and state aid are. I asked them why they couldn't give these families 2 billion forints to help them. We are talking about 220 families who, with their own savings, tried to get real estate on the run to borrowing and CSOK, but this was not possible because of the investor's project decision. If the liquidators do not do this and the state does not provide substantial help, then these families will never be able to move in there in life. So I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-50	Dear House, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the vote on interpellation will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Now, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, who submitted his interpellation to the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I submitted a written question to the Minister on 29 March. In my question, I drew your attention to illegal landfills located a few hundred metres from City Park, Zuglo, on properties owned by MÁV near the French Road. As I wrote in my written question, there are mountains of eyes in these areas, and smaller buildings made of waste have already appeared. The Secretary of State answered my question. In his reply, he provided detailed information on the amount of garbage that has been transported from the area in recent years. [[14.40]] MÁV Zrt. According to this, it has ordered the collection and removal of hundreds of tons of garbage; only this year this quantity exceeded 100 cubic metres. In the last month, no waste disposal tables were installed in the affected areas. Unfortunately, these measures have not been able to solve the situation permanently, because the area is constantly regrowing its eyes. I've been personally convinced of that for the last few days. Since the area is not district property, the municipality cannot manage its custody. As I said earlier in my written question, one of the public policy objectives of the Waste Management Act submitted by the Government in November 2020 was to clean up the country from illegal waste. According to the adopted law, from January onwards, the state will be able to act more strictly against litterers and illegal landfills. In view of these, it is important that public companies do not only symptomatically address the problem in their own areas, but also take action to prevent illegal landfill, thereby improving the quality of life of the people living there and ensuring the cleanness of their environment. It is good news for the inhabitants of Zugló that MÁV Zrt. treats the elimination of illegal waste on properties on French roads as a priority. It is encouraging, which he wrote in my reply, that the company will continue to do everything in its power to solve the problem in question, but unfortunately, the tens of millions of forints spent so far have not produced any final results. With these in mind, I ask the Secretary of State: how do you intend to prevent the French travel areas of the MÁV being used as illegal landfills? When will you be able to permanently secure a clean, clean environment for the Zuglós? MÁV Zrt. What developments can Zugló expect this year? The biggest rust zone in Budapest is the Rákos Director. When is the area expected to be exploited? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-17-52	Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2021-05-17-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your previous awareness raising and for the fact that you have acknowledged that MÁV has already delivered a very significant amount of waste. In order to complete the answer, allow me to start by saying that the MÁV must maintain order on a railway line of some 7,300 kilometres and is responsible for keeping tens of thousands of parts of land in order. It is not a coincidence that this work has not been designated as an operational task, but as part of a climate and nature conservation action plan, the elimination of illegal landfills has been a priority in government measures. The portfolio initiated and implemented a comprehensive legislative amendment, which was accepted by Parliament. As a result, we are now seeing incomplete but visible results at national level. With the new authority, tightening the rules and spending adequate resources, not a few ten million forints, the amount is significantly more significant than that, a significant part of the illegal landfills have been eliminated. As you have said in your question, this is about preventing waste from being recycled in the long term. The government and the railway undertaking are committed to eliminating this impossible situation, both in order to ensure public safety, clean environments and improve the quality of life of the people there. In view of this, the MÁV terminated all lease contracts for all areas affected by French road garages. The shipment of waste, as I indicated earlier, is being carried out continuously. The MÁV, by the way, is XIV. in the district, so that the municipality of Zugló is continuously consulted in this case, and in order to prevent illegal landfilling in the long term, the MÁV remains open to the extension of the authorisation provided for in the cooperation agreement with the Zugló municipal police. For your question, I would like to inform you about the rail developments expected in Zugló that in 2020 the railway station maintenance work of Zugló was completed. As a result, the entire length of the platform was replaced by a new cover; the facade of the entrance building was decorated with cleaning, corrosion protection and painting; new benches and waste collectors were erected. In addition, passenger information was also developed in XVIII and XIX, as you may have experienced. Further developments of the MÁV include the complex renewal of Zugló railway station, which will be completed in the near future as part of the ICO project. In addition, the government has adopted an urban home-building programme to encourage the construction of new apartments at affordable prices in rust areas. This applies to both Ferencváros and Józsefváros. The aim is to make the areas in cities that are currently not usable once again a clean, clean place for urban fabric. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-54	I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2021-05-17-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the Secretary of State for his detailed professional response. As you mentioned, the MÁV informed the garage tenants in a letter last year that they would terminate the contract because they thought it would be the strategic decision that would solve the problem permanently, because if these leases ceased there, they would no longer be able to operate that illegal landfill behind it. The result of this resignation was that it was such a toothbrush, so some tenants complied with the request and removed the garage that was treated as movable property, but the rest did not. Thus, the situation on the teeth has now improved, not only but it has deteriorated, because on the teeth there is now another opportunity to dump the garbage, so the final solution has not been reached. There's something going on, actually, but it's not what the people in the neighborhood were expecting. So I would have liked to have accepted your answer if the final solution had been found. We hope you will, and I will, but for now, I cannot accept it, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-17-56	Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor, please.
u2021-05-17-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the heroism of health workers, we talk less about the heroism of those working in the social sector. Overachieving the epidemic, they had to work in a shortage of numbers. They did what they felt was their duty. They did so by forgetting the Hungarian vaccination plan, the government's vaccination plan. They saw that while searching for royal bones, their minister did not have time to deal with them. They saw that the hunting exhibition was more dealt with by the government than by social workers. Dear Government, Their work may not be as spectacular as the antler hunting exhibition, it is not in the spotlight, but without them the country does not work. It is no coincidence that the petition launched by the Democratic Trade Union of Cradle Workers has reached a record. The petition calls for wage increases in all social sectors, going back 30 percent by 1 January. The workers who are correct in the epidemic have not received any public recognition for their work, while, in all sectors of the national economy, KSH figures show that wages are the lowest, Mr State Secretary. DK considers that, regardless of the serious problems caused by the virus, the increase in wages for workers in the social sector should be justified, but the heroic performance that has been achieved over the past year is a major justification. Secretary of State, if you would give me the 30 percent wage increase, the social worker's income would still be below the average. I'm sure you'll agree with me that if you're already in the Ministry of Human Rights, it's completely unacceptable, unfair and unfair. You have to help here; not another time, not later, but now, right now. They should have helped us before, during the plague. Ad hoc, one-off benefits don't help here, we need a comprehensive solution. The Democratic Coalition agrees with the initiative and supports a 30% retrospective wage increase for social workers. If you don't, Klára Dobrev, the DK Prime Minister's candidate, will make it official and give you the rightful wage increase. [[14.50]] The strength of the claim is shown by the fact that 20 percent of those involved in the wage increase signed the sheets in ten days, so it is not excluded that the employees of the social sphere would even force their demand by protesting. The government's promises, misleading statistics, can't make a living. Mr. Secretary, do you think it's right to spend 70 billion of our common money on a few days' hunting world fair, or do you think it's better to give people's social workers a raise? Mr. Secretary, look into the camera and tell these people why they weren't so important as to be included in the vaccination plan. Excuse me, Mr. President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-58	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-05-17-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd look you in the eye first. When you were a Member here during your government, then why did you vote for a reduction in the wages of social workers, I see, because this is an embarrassing point for you, but not just you, and you said that DK would take action on this. DK's politician Gergely Arató voted here in Parliament to reduce the wages of social workers. Ferenc Gyurcsány, your current leader, then leader and future leader, voted here in Parliament to reduce the wages of social workers. But I could continue the line, László Hajdu, Ágnes Vadai, László Varga, László Varju, and their fellow Member László Burány [[Intercoms: Alexander! Sándor Burány!]] who is sitting in the lines of the Dialogue right now, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, László Szakács, can look around, wherever he looks around, who has been a Member for a long time, everyone here in Parliament has taken a month's wages from social workers. It's gonna be a few years, and you think that you've been forgotten by social workers, and if you say at word level that you're gonna raise the wages of social workers, then you're gonna believe that, whether it's social workers or anyone else. Tell me more about these politicians I have read to you, since the change of regime, a Hungarian politician who voted to reduce the wages of social workers. Can you say another such name, a list of such names, honourable Member, who voted that those who help those who are in the most difficult situation should not increase their income, not even at a level, but at a reduced income, honourable Member? Because you are such politicians! And you're gonna stand up a few years later and say you're gonna be the ones to raise it. Who would believe those who have reduced the wages of social workers alone since the change of regime that they would actually increase? Obviously, we all think so, and all the good people think that the wages of social workers should be increased. What is really being done humanly, so not only in terms of physical stress, but also in terms of human hardships, and helping those who have entered the social institutions, they must be accompanied by a very high level of social recognition, obviously accompanied by material recognition. But I'm sorry, if you're going to be social recognition, have you voted to have a social work day on November 12th, and we've declared this a public holiday for social workers? Have you taken this symbolic step? They didn't do it here in Parliament, Congressman. When wages had to be reduced, they voted for it when it had to be done on the day of social work, and they did not vote for it here. Honourable Congressman, In recent years, even last year, when all countries in the world were hit by a crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we have tried to raise the wages of social workers, so overall, if you look at it, last year's back 14 percent increase has increased the average social wage by 110 percent, and we would like it to increase further in the coming years. If you decide that, you'd probably have more sad news for social workers. We've done what we've done in the last few years, and it's a 110 percent increase. Obviously, everyone wants more than that, but this is a visible commitment to social workers. If you look at how many people have worked in home assistance, 5764 in your last year, now 12 397, honourable Member, because more and more people are able to work in this area. From 2014 we introduced the social wage supplement worth HUF 12 billion, and from 15 onwards we introduced the social wage supplement. This represents an annual surplus of HUF 16 billion. In the following years, we continued to raise it by HUF 9 billion. For example, the increase of 17 and 18 meant an average of HUF 35,000 to 14,000 employees, and we did it last year, in the year of the crisis, and we would like to continue this. If you get close to power, this will be in great danger. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-60	I'll give the floor back to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-17-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you must have a very difficult life: you must get up every day and see if I can do enough clay today. [[Defiance from DK and Jobbik.]] To get my bosses to compliment me, scratch my bookie, and say it's okay, I've managed to do it today. You have not been able to say a meaningful sentence about the future of these people here in Parliament today. But you know what, Secretary of State, come with me to Elizabeth and Teresa, not inside, talk about these people in the office. Look them in the eye for once. Why don't you come with me, and we'll both go out, and we'll go through these institutions. It's easy for you to talk from a distance. But have you ever seen a living daycare worker, a babysitting nurse, a family-supporting social worker, a case manager, a caretaker and a caregiver, a home caregiver? And let's not forget about the support workers, the operating staff, the psychologist, the physical therapist, the mental health worker. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You've reduced their wages!]] janitors and janitors! Come with me to Elizabeth and Teresa. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-62	Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. The interpellation will then be answered by Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, on behalf of the Minister without a wallet for families Katalin Novák, who is competent and responsible on the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-63	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]]
u2021-05-17-64	Péter Ungár's microphone, please. Thank you. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-65	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The government talks a lot about how important it is to appreciate the elderly. I think this could be a goal that we can all agree with. However, there is a data that I would like to start with, which is a data, so it will be very difficult to argue with, because it is a data. This is that in 2019 more than half a million elderly people received a pension below HUF 100,000. It's a fact. It is very difficult to talk about appreciation, when so many people receive so little money, it is obviously not possible to come out of 100,000 forints a month, and a pensioner can't come out of less than 100,000 forints a month. So my first question is why the minimum pension rate has not been increased since the 12 years of government, and why in the last 12 years they have allowed so many pensioners to have a pension of less than 100,000 forints. At the same time, what I am asking is not only the level of pensions, but also the other services that our elderly countrymen receive. We have often said in this House that the care fee has been correctly raised by the government for children, but in the case of our elderly countrymen, who often live in dementia, the care fee is HUF 58 thousand. Why didn't you raise this? Why is this still 58,000 forints? In many cases home care is something that has no alternative, since the Secretary of State knows precisely that according to EMMI's announcement, the average waiting list in an elderly home, especially if it means dementia-specific care, is more than 2.2 years. So that's my question. Furthermore, although there was a correct move to tighten the sentence against the various criminal organizations that fool older people, there was no progress in caring for older people or in how they could find a way of living if they were not fully capable of self-sufficiency. There was no increase in a state-old home in Hungary; I go on: Churches are being subjected to full-time care at a time when it is basically a state task, since these people have paid taxes to the state for more than forty years, which is why they deserve to be provided by the state in their old age, not by the church, but by the state. I go on: our elderly countrymen, with such inflation, such prices, with such a low pension rate, are very difficult to spend on things that are not essential. There's no progress in this either. The fact that you're campaigning for pensioners to try and get them to vote is not right. The fact is that we should deal with our elderly countrymen in a complex way, raise the minimum pension rate, raise the rate of care, increase the level of care, create more degrees of care, even involving private capital, and do things in the elderly care sector that you have not done so far, because they have put all this on the church. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from DK and the independents.]]
u2021-05-17-66	I would like to draw the House Rule's attention to the fact that the oral interpellation should therefore reflect more or less the question submitted in writing. [[15.00]] To put it mildly... [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Please don't argue with me, okay, just hear me out. To put it mildly, Mr President, you have freely interpreted the written interpretation you have submitted, which would give the Secretary of State the opportunity not to answer your question. He'll probably answer. [[Robert Szigó: Yes.]] And I encourage you to do so, but I would like to draw your attention to the future, so that you don't do that. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-17-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It will probably not surprise me to say that I do not agree with any more findings of your written interpellation. What you have described is such that you are neglecting the elderly, or in another place, that in the crisis caused by the virus it would have been necessary to help the elderly. These findings, honourable Member, are more true for the period before 2010 than for the present situation. I remind you that your new allies in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era have reduced the purchasing value of pensions by 4 percent, skyrocketed the bills, took away the 13th month's pension from the elderly, and did not appreciate the lifelong work of the elderly. That's the thing, that was before 2010. On the other hand, Congressman, in 2010, we concluded an agreement with pensioners that, as long as Hungary has a civil national government, the purchasing value of their pensions will remain. The last few years have also demonstrated that we have kept our word, since the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010. In addition, to give one more example, multiple reductions in the amount of money can save elderly people and pensioners. We didn't abandon the elderly in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. From February 2021 we began to rebuild the 13th month pension that your allies took from the elderly earlier. From January 2021, pensions and pension-like benefits increased by 3 percent, and under the provisions in force, if the expected annual inflation exceeds that foreseen, the difference will be paid by the government in the month of November, going back to January. In view of the pandemic this year, the government decided to pay this compensation to pensioners earlier, as early as the month of June, going back to January. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would also like to inform the Member that, since the establishment of the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2010, the priority objectives of the government programme include respect, respect and security for the elderly, the rights of the elderly and their access to services in the Hungarian legal system, not a separate Elderly Act, but sectoral legislation, thus ensuring that the interests of our elderly countrymen in all areas of life are fully represented in the legal system. In Hungary, the highest level of legislation, the Fundamental Law, highlights the elderly as a group requiring special care and special protection in addition to children, women and people with disabilities. The National Assembly also raised the children's responsibility for parents on a proposal from the government to the statutory regulatory level compared to previous legislation. The Hungarian legal system in force therefore ensures the rights of the elderly, access to care in the course of practical implementation. I can assure you and the Parliament, as well as the elderly, that every decision of the government is also governed by the responsibility of our elderly countrymen, they can expect to spend their retirement years safely, as a member of a growing nation, to continue to rely on the government. Thank you very much for your attention, and despite the fact that your interpellation wasn't the one cast, I would ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-68	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-69	Thank you very much. Although Speaker Fat is no longer here, I felt from his reply that, in view of the pre-written text, this would have been the answer regardless of the content of the question, and I cannot accept what Mr Secretary of State said. I would like to quote just one sentence, which was in the text that was written, and which, therefore, could have been answered in substance. This is that more than half a million old people receive less than 100,000 forints' pensions. It's a fact, as Pooh Pooh would say: fact, fact, fact. There was no response to that, so I can't accept it.
u2021-05-17-70	Congressman! Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office with an EU source of information:, Lesze Gang-program? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2021-05-17-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Or someone who'll answer. We understand that the government does not want to use the HUF 3000 billion favourable EU loan, while a similar amount of Paks II investment loan, which is already ticking at 4.9 percent interest rate, uses it while using a HUF 595 billion Chinese loan linked to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, while using a loan of HUF 450 billion in connection with the Fudan University of the Chinese Communist Party. Underprivileged governance during the pandemic is the need for expensive, high-interest Chinese and Russian loans and the need for low-interest EU loans. But there would be a good investment here, a better investment than the Russian and Chinese, and it is nothing more than investing in Hungarian people, in the home of Hungarian people, and investing in the Gang program. Last March, I asked the government what was going on with the residential energy efficiency programme, because in 2010, you promised to renovate and make homes energy-saving. That was promised 11 years ago. The answer after ten years of government was that they were still working on the plan. I hope that the plans have been drawn up over the last year, and they have had time, because now this EU source of 3000 billion would be enough to renovate all of Hungary's gang houses. Dear Secretary of State, There are usually small or average citizens living in gang houses, neither do they, nor do condominiums have the framework to pay for such investments. Most of the gang houses are in Elizabeth City and Teresa City, by the way. I could also ask if the Royal Streets, the Aradi Streets, or the Wesselényi Streets could count on the government to help them renovate their home. So the question is that Fidesz represents the majority, or 99 percent, or again serves the privileged 1 percent, or continues to assist. Dear Secretary of State, The question is simple: will Gang's programme come from EU funds? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-17-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The objectives of the so-called recovery and resilience plan have been public since last October and can be considered by all. The content and scope of the document have changed and expanded on the basis of social consultation and consultation with the Commission. The Hungarian plan was submitted on 11 May. So far the Commission has received plans from 15 Member States from 27 Member States and can also be accessed publicly on the Palyazat.gov.hu website. We expect a decision to be taken relatively quickly. This, of course, may take three months in an EU context, but we hope for a quick decision. I have never seen a party argue in favour of unneeded borrowing and indebtedness; this is already a Gyurcsányi tempo. But if you don't mind, I'd like to talk about RRF, because it's an important ten-component plan. I would ask which objectives you do not agree with: demography, public education, highly qualified, competitive labour force, catching up municipalities, water management, sustainable green transport, energy-greening, transition to circular economy, health care and other country-specific recommendations. I don't know which of these components, standing on the ground of common sense, is not eligible. This fund aims to accelerate public investment and reforms in the period following the Covid-19 crisis. [[15.10]] We have decided to target the development of the health system, the development of environmentally friendly transport, the development of an education system and, as I said, the transition to a circular economy: 41 percent climate target, 23 targets digitalisation. There is a specific component for energy: ensuring a flexible and secure electricity network, supporting renewable energy sources. By the way, in response to the programmes mentioned by you, the government paid nearly HUF 60 billion from domestic budget sources to improve energy efficiency and technical security in condominium buildings between 2010 and 2020. This energy efficiency investment could have been made in 240 thousand condominium homes. The RRF is essentially designed to implement structural economic and social reforms, while at the same time providing a multi-annual financial framework, i.e. the operational programmes of the MFF, will provide an opportunity to continue the programme. Moreover, in the previous EU budget cycle MFF was also subject to such programmes. An example, if you will allow me, is the modernisation of heating systems for district heating condos and housing cooperatives. Nearly 50,000 remotely heated apartments have been renovated in energy. The plan has been broadly agreed. When you classify the Hungarian plan, you ignore the opinions of professional organisations, research institutes and citizens who have contributed to the preparation of the plan. We also invited Gergely Christmas and the Mayor's Office to comment on the plan. They published their own recovery plan nine days after the deadline they themselves mentioned. I don't know who they're talking to, probably nobody. And what we see is that the plan makes proposals that most of them are per definitionem according to the EU rules of use, so it is by definition excluded from the RFF. I suggest to you: more professional skills, more modesty, more work, less Facebook post. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-74	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr. Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-05-17-75	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, you should be more modest with over 4,000 billion completely unnecessary loans. While we have a European Union loan with a very good interest rate, you are indebted to the country for generations with Russian and Chinese credit. Dear Secretary of State, It's very good that you've listed a few billion, but you'd better take a look downtown, see how the gangly houses are doing. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Thank you, I grew up there!]] ; see that the 40-60 square meter gang house is heated with a lower voice of 30-40 thousand forints. This could be reduced by at least 40-50 percent with this programme. The value of residential properties would increase, we'd use less energy, we'd put less pressure on the environment, and I could tell you that. This is what it would be worth investing in, not for your buddies to get some construction projects from EU funds. The people on the Körút, the Royal Streets, the Wesselényi Streets, the Ersébetváros and Terézváros wouldn't accept that answer, so neither would I. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-05-17-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for families:. What decisions does the Government make for the livelihood of Hungarian pensioners? It's an address. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction have been working with the authority of the Hungarian people to provide meaningful assistance to all Hungarian citizens, whether they are young people under the age of 25 who are taking the first steps of their lives, who can benefit from a personal income tax exemption; couples who plan to start a family, who can receive a grant of tens of millions of HUF when purchasing their shared home; or even pensioners who have been supported by a number of measures and laws in the last 11 years. The left tries and tries to make our elderly countrymen, pensioners, believe that the opposite is true. We consider the situation to be unworthy, and we find it unworthy that those who have already demonstrated their incompetence to governance between 2002 and 2010 are, despite their shameful decisions against the interests of pensioners, still trying with all their power to align the elderly against the government. This is an outrageous and nasty attitude, as they are attacking the successes achieved by the Hungarian people, because we would not have been able to vote in favour of these laws, these measures if the Hungarian people had not been behind us and had not been successful. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Compared to 2010, pensions increased by 43,8 percent, and their purchasing value, which is a much more important value, indicator, increased by 10 percent. If the self-employed person is employed in any legal relationship, his income from the work will be charged only 15% of personal income tax from 1 July 2020, i.e. from the middle of last year. Dear Secretary of State, In the month of February 2021, the number of women who received a discount pension was up to 300,000. I would like to ask you that the In addition to these, the government makes decisions to help Hungarian pensioners make a living. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-17-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2010, there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary: in our view, family value and support for families are the most important tasks for our future. And we understand the concept of family not only for children, not only for young people, not only for young parents, but also for the elderly, for our parents and grandparents, because they are the ones who have worked their whole lives to make us better, because everything that surrounds us, what we have, we have from them, otherwise, to increase these values and to pass them on to our children. As you said, this was not always the case, because before 2010, in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, they did not help the elderly, but kept making their daily lives difficult. Those who have now assembled on the left, then, as I had just responded to an interpellation, did not retain the value of the purchase of pensions, but reduced it by 4 percent, raising the bills to the sky, making the elderly most vulnerable. And yes, when they handled the crisis, they took away the 13th month pension from the elderly. And there's no doubt that if they came to power now, they'd do the same thing again. We, on the other hand, made an alliance with pensioners in 2010 and agreed that the purchasing value of pensions would remain. We have kept our word in recent years, because, as you said, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent. And we also reduced the bills, which allowed us to leave a noticeable amount of money for the elderly. It is also important that, in the context of the economic re-launch action plan in the context of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the step-by-step retirement of the 13th month pension started from February this year: in February, pensioners and pension recipients received an additional weekly pension benefit. About 2.1 million pensioners and 400 thousand pensioners received the weekly amount of the 13th month benefit. And as you have mentioned, we have done everything in the form of a pension premium, a voucher for Elizabeth and a certificate for pensions in recent years, so that old people can benefit from economic success. It is also very important that, since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has been guaranteed by law: under the provisions in force, if the expected annual inflation exceeds that planned, the difference will be paid by the government back in January in November. [[15.20]] In view of the pandemic situation this year, the government decided that pensioners would receive this compensation earlier in June, also going back to January. Respect and respect for older people is the priority of every society. We have been working with all our resources to help pensioners, and I can assure you that the elderly, the pensioners, can continue to count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-80	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We know that credibility and trust are very important in politics. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the government undertook to maintain the value of pensions in 2010. We have succeeded in fulfilling this commitment, and we have already reported in recent years that we have increased the value of pensions by more than 10 percent. Mr Secretary of State has listed these measures, or a small part of the form in which we have been able to help pensioners, and Mr Secretary of State has also talked about what it means to operate and regress a family-friendly government. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr Secretary of State, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How much money will the reimbursement of the financial damage caused by the former leaders of the Hungarian Tennis Association cost to taxpayers during the economic crisis? It's an address. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2021-05-17-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It has been almost a year since the Tennis Association has a new president: instead of a Fidesz MP, Lajos Szűcs, János Lázár is now a Fidesz MP running the sports organization. In parentheses, we have already initiated that in the future there will be no political leader, and if it is up to us, there will be none. Well, Lajos Szűcs is certainly a lovable, well-versed man, because in addition to representing the electorate, he was also President of the Tennis Association, the Fishing Federation, and vice-president of the Parliament's Budget Committee. It is therefore shocking that the Tennis Alliance, led by the Fidesz Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, cannot account for a small amount of budgetary resources! With their outrageous and immoral management, billions of forints of debt were put into debt by the sports organization, thereby embarrassing the entire sport society. I understand, Mr. Secretary, even your ministry will have to pay back a billion and a half forints, so this cannot go unpunished. It's been almost a year, but there's still no responsibility for budget fraud. I respectfully ask, as a head of the Ministry for Sport, how much debt has been accumulated by former Tennis Federation leaders and how much it will cost taxpayers during the economic crisis. Have you ever filed a complaint against the former president? Secretary of State, you're not gonna get the cleaning lady, the administrator, or just the secretary-general to take the fall, are you? If Lajos Szűcs' responsibility is established, would you agree to leave public life? Yes or no? And finally, I respectfully ask you, learning from your experience, you're holding a comprehensive audit at the Fishing Federation. Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is not the first time your faction has raised this question. In the past, György Szilágyi's fellow political group raised this issue and mentioned that this condition would be terminated, and then your proposal was parked because it turned out that your fellow political groupmate, while Jobbik was talking about not being able to hold a position as head of the Sports Association by politicians, being a member of the presidency of the Hungarian Association of Leisure Sports and president of the National Association of Hungarian Technical and Mass Sports Clubs, of course, while you said that you should not be a member of anyone. So there's a history of this kind of better-looking proposal. [[György Szilágyi: Who?]] Honourable Congressman, Numerous left-wing politicians also held various positions as sports leaders. For example, we can remember Etele Baráth, president of the Hungarian Kajak-Kenu Association, Imre Szekeres or Attila Mesterházy, who all held different positions as head of the sports association. Although you did not say so, but no one should claim that only Fidesz-KDNP politicians ever held a position as head of the sports association; this was the case on all political sides. It's up to the sports association to decide who to take over. If you have chosen an athlete, you can also choose a politician, you can do that if you have not been an athlete or a politician, but some other leader or manager, you can also do that, you can make a decision entirely by the sports associations. I understand that you have a proposal to limit the choice of the sports association, and obviously you, as all Members of Parliament, have that possibility. Let us hope that you will not present this with Attila Mesterházy, who, by the way, has previously held such a position. The Tennis Association informed the Ministry of Human Resources that it would fulfil its obligation to repay any State aid for sport and that it was in the process of being implemented. In the case of the Hungarian National Fishing Association, Mohosz, which you mentioned, the state aid provided by the EMMI has been used in recent years consistently, with great efficiency, in accordance with professional and cost plans, and it has been fully accounted for by the association, and it is not the government that exercises legal oversight over these organisations, but the prosecution, and if the association wants to conduct disciplinary or ethical proceedings, it is also not the government, but the professional associations. Obviously, if the government did anything else, it would be you who would protest loudly against the fact that the government is interfering with the responsibilities of the alliances here. In recent years, we have sought to increase the number of years spent in health in the long term for everyone who wants to play sports and thus preserve their health, and to provide them with these opportunities for as many sports as possible. We also raised the number of gymnastics classes, introduced everyday physical education so that everyone can try as many sports as possible, and, of course, a lot of sports selection opportunities provide an opportunity to have a passion, a hobby that will accompany you as a sport during your life, and we hope that we can increase the number of years you have spent in health. This is what we have been trying to do, and that is why the steps taken in education have been important with the introduction of daily physical education, which is why sports union subsidies have been important, and that is why the Tao system was important, and we have entrusted the associations with how they pass on these grants to their various federal members, so that we can strengthen the need and desire of as many people as possible to play sports. However, we can see that the leader of the left is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was himself the Minister of Sport, that the next day, when he was no longer a Minister of Sports, he ended the Sports Ministry. That is how you stand on the issue of Hungarian sport and on the issue of Hungarian youth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó: Many words have many bottoms! There's no answer.]]
u2021-05-17-86	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-87	Mr. Secretary. I had hoped that it would also provide concrete answers to specific questions this time, since it is not customary for the hospital in Marcal, especially in the light of the fact that I had already submitted these questions to your ministry more than a month ago. You know, I've worked for a sports organization for decades, and I've experienced that, in the end, the president is always responsible for everything. So if Lajos Szűcs knew about the frauds committed in the Tennis Alliance, then if he doesn't, that's why he should be held accountable. See, that's why you shouldn't be a politician. Mr. Secretary. It would be a very bad message for Hungarian society if this matter were to be covered up just because it was very unpleasant for Fidesz. Since he didn't answer any more questions, we couldn't find out, for example, how much money the Tennis Alliance would cost taxpayers to consolidate, we couldn't even know that he had already filed a complaint against Lajos Szűcs. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So your answer, I'm sorry, but I can't accept it.
u2021-05-17-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How is the implementation of the vaccination programme progressing? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It became clear already during the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic that the virus cannot be overcome only by limiting means, the only effective solution is the vaccine. In the battle against the Crown Virus, there was a huge milestone when the first officially accepted, safe vaccine appeared. Thanks to the government's rapid response, our country started among the first to acquire vaccines, thus enabling first the vaccination of healthcare workers, those living and working in nursing homes and residential social institutions, the registered oldest and chronic patients under the age of 60. Currently, there are six officially approved, effective and safe vaccines in Hungary. Those with a valid registration may choose to make an appointment for Sinopharm, AstraZeneca, Sputnik and receive the first vaccination within days. The World Health Organization has now approved the emergency use of the vaccine developed against the Chinese Sinopharm corona virus. Just to remind you, since the beginning, the Hungarian left has been spectacularly attacking vaccines coming from the East, without any professional arguments. Even at the beginning of the epidemic, they tried to call for dictatorship and did not want to give the government the necessary emergency authority, spread false news, and continue to campaign against vaccination. However, it has now been proven to them that the government made the right decision when it did not make a political issue about vaccine procurement. Dear Secretary of State, We're in the landing branch of the third wave, we've already crossed the 4.5 million inoculated. Health care is also coming out of a huge strain. The person who took the vaccine can re-use the services that have been suspended since March with an immunity certificate. In the coming months, the protection certificate will be indispensable for participation in concerts, nightclubs and sports events and for the use of hotels and restaurants services. On 10 May, hundreds of thousands of high school students and high school students resumed their presence education. Following the vaccination of teachers, the vaccination of registered young people aged 16-18 years started last week with Pfizer vaccine. Inquiring about the details, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State the rate at which young people aged 16-18 years are vaccinated, how the implementation of the vaccination programme is progressing. Thank you for your reply. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi applauds.]]
u2021-05-17-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Today, the name of an international organisation, WHO, has somehow not been mentioned in the speech of our fellow left-wing Members. We see that they rely on the WHO only occasionally. We can remember that when the government was criticized for testing, then when it was discovered, and also the head of the WHO office in Hungary, international leader, said that Hungary was testing on the basis of the WHO protocol, then suddenly these attacks stopped. We also remember how the left-wing government attacked the schools. After the teachers were inoculated at the request of the educators and other organisations, we gradually started to open schools and organise graduations in addition to the security standards similar to last year's graduation organisation, and the government was constantly under attack, while it is still the next years of graduate students, until one of the WHO leaders said that schools should be closed and opened for the first time during the epidemic. Then the vaccines were also attacked, until Hans Kluge, the WHO Regional Director of Europe, said that the vaccination campaign is exemplary in Hungary, we regard vaccines as a life-saving tool, and this issue cannot be turned into a geopolitical issue, because vaccination is the only way to combat the epidemic and all vaccines are effective. They then insisted that the WHO would give an opinion in which the elderly would not recommend a Chinese vaccine for Sinopharm. Then the WHO gave its opinion that it did recommend the vaccine for all adult age groups, and from now on it was no longer based on the WHO, but they said the same on the left. It is clear, therefore, that there are only political arguments, when, whether it be the epidemiological experts or the World Health Organization, the United Nations Health Organization, the largest healthcare organisation, gives its opinion, it does not agree with the opinion of the Hungarian Left, but with the opinion of the experts, and the government makes its decision in the operational tribe on the basis of a proposal from experts. It was the left that tried to politicize the whole disease management issue. So all left-wing representatives, who, either with reference to the WHO or outside, have tried to dissuade Hungarian people from either Chinese or other vaccinations, who have submitted parliamentary proposals, which are completely contrary to what Hungarian health professionals have said on the basis of laboratory opinions, are opposed to what the World Health Organization says about the Chinese vaccine, they owe a very large apology to the Hungarian people and, in particular, their own supporters for trying to dissuade them from vaccinations in connection with the epidemic. Because if a man or ten people or a hundred people or a thousand people have been in doubt, and therefore those people have not been vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine, and their immunity has been extended for weeks to months, then these people have certainly been in great danger. And the politicians of the left did so by knowing the opinion of the Hungarian epidemiological experts. They were familiar with the opinions of professionals who have allowed all other vaccinations in recent decades, which have been given here mainly to children, for example, adults, for example, in the case of H1N1 in Hungary. And yet they questioned the views of these people, but they also anticipated that the WHO would give a negative opinion on the Sinopharm vaccine for the elderly. It was extremely irresponsible of the Hungarian people, and the left owes a huge apology at least for trying to discredit people for political reasons and endanger the health and life of Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-92	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-17-93	Thank you very much. As we move forward in time, we can see that the statements of the left will be refuted. I'd like to give you a specific example. In a small village in Somogy, Pálmajor, almost only Gypsy people live, and the mayor tried to convince people to get vaccinated, and, of course, there is also the majority of people there, contrary to what the left is saying, about the Internet, so it is not only M1. They found an example of how they said, of course, that the mayor would get some kind of elite vaccine, but they only get the poor quality Chinese. Maybe they haven't thought about how much they're doing to this thing. So the apology referred to by the Secretary of State would certainly be justified. I think it's not too late to stop this anti-vaccination propaganda after the virus doesn't pick. And thank you very much for your reply, Mr State Secretary.
u2021-05-17-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:38 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will continue our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-05-17-95	[[Without sound:]] We'll wait for the prince of the brats.
u2021-05-17-96	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "That's enough! It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say, it's very difficult to talk calmly, without a temper for the next two minutes. A special economic zone is the concept that brings the stomachs of honest, honest mayors and the palms of their hands into fists. That's the concept that makes compromise mayors start rubbing their hands. [[15.40]] Last week we received information that on the table of Dr. Krisztián Molnár's new Fidesz constituency president in Székesfehérvár, we had the devilish plan to make the best possible indication of Fejér's constituency 4 in parentheses that Dunaújváros received 0, i.e. zero forint compensation after withdrawal. What does this diabolical plan contain? We take away the biggest business tax payers, the paid business tax, and in Székesfehérvár we decide who gets it back. According to the documents we have received, four municipalities will benefit from this business tax. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I'm sure they're not fidesz.]] Let's ask them who they are. Mayors close to Fidesz or Fidesz. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I think it's decided.]] So, with the money of people in Dunaújváros, they want to fatten Fidesz municipalities, four more. [[Attila Mesterházy: Is this true?! Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Not for long!]] Is that true? ! I mean, we didn't get a penny compensation. How many more skins do you want off the Duna New Town? I expect your honest answer. Thank you for the floor. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A difficult situation!]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A difficult situation!]] Here you go, Minister. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Difficult situation!)
u2021-05-17-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He mentioned two issues, one of which is municipal compensation, which you call compensation, because let's be honest. the government did not take any pennies from the municipalities by reducing the business tax, but they increased businesses in the territory of the municipalities, so the government did not receive any extra income from this. Not all of Jobbik's factions understood this, so now, when faced with one and another, they laugh at it, but this does not change the fact that the government has not received a single penny from it, but this money remains for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is also due to the fact that we are doing so well in job creation and job preservation that you can see from the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office every week. Therefore, there was no reason for compensation in this sense, but we really believe that the government's decision is correct and justified in giving operating aid to cities that are less powerful from the point of view of tax power and in favour of poorer cities. Nor was there Székesfehérvár in this circle, which, by the way, was a city led by a mayor of Fidesz, or Győr, Dunaújváros, but these were subsidies granted on the basis of objective data, even opposition mayors and even opposition prime minister candidates, who welcomed this as a fair decision, and I would like to recommend it to your attention. And the special economic zone serves justice. At a time when a particular investment is a major business tax revenue for an area, the aim is not only to share it with a city, which, of course, does not stay out of it, but is also a beneficiary of the investment, but also for several municipalities in the region. This is not the first decision of the government, which has been and will be made as a proposal here and in this region; I think that no matter what government is in power in the country, it is justified that a particular settlement should not take part in the economic development of an area, because, by the way, workers do not work from just one settlement in these factories either. I hope that this is a good and right decision on territorial development that everyone can support on a professional basis. [[Interview from Jobbik: On a professional basis!]] That is why I propose that the congressman examines it in the light of this...
u2021-05-17-100	Thank you.
u2021-05-17-101	... government proposals. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-102	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-103	That's tough, Minister. Are you talking about justice? Are you talking about justice? ! I told you, four cities are the beneficiary settlement, all four of them with fideszes. If we are talking about justice, where is Erchi? Where's Pusztaszabolcs? Where's Perkata? Oh, there are independent or opposition mayors. Don't talk about justice yourself. You know, Mr. Secretary, you'll have a minute to follow me. You spent 20 seconds or 20 seconds in response to the priority economic zone. He deserves more than that from explaining the subject, at least. You'll have a minute. To explain to the tens of thousands who live there this barbaric, stupid decision. Have a nice swan song, please, because that's what it's gonna be. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-104	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-105	Mr President, Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Among the parties that are allied with you, there are those whose predecessors have been given power in a non-democratic election, but for the time being let the Hungarian electorate decide who is in the opposition or who is in the government; at least as long as the country has a civilian government, there is no need to fear that voters will not decide who will form the government. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] or who gets to the National Assembly. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The potato is on sale! The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the case even if you have not liked this result in an understandable way in the past, because the voters [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] they have given Jobbik confidence in the proportion of its representation here in Parliament. But as far as your question is concerned, I can only repeat it once again: the fact that in an economic area several municipalities are involved in the revenue of a major development is, in my view, a right decision, a decision that is good for everyone, regardless of policy, good for the whole region. That the individual municipalities, which benefit from these decisions, have been well chosen or not, can, of course, be debated that if you do so, I suggest that you make your proposal in this regard, write down your opinion, we will examine it. But overall, not just a settlement of three or four thousand people [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's say a more serious investment [[The president's ringing the bell. It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] from the income of the industrial tax, but from the whole region, it is a correct and justified decision.
u2021-05-17-106	Thank you very much...
u2021-05-17-107	I am pleased to have been able to answer a little longer, according to the Member's needs. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-108	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets, an immediate question. What will happen to the state's wealth? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member, either to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2021-05-17-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have no objection to the Secretary of State, but I'd like to wait for the secretary. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-110	I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-05-17-111	I'll take it.
u2021-05-17-112	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Budapest, Dunaújváros, Tatabánya, Szombathely nearly two million of our compatriots live in these settlements, paying taxes. You may not doubt that public transport, metro, BKV or the public transport, cultural institutions and theatres in the county seats in Budapest, and especially in Budapest, have caused huge losses in the area of the Covid epidemic, such as tourism and catering, in these settlements, for example, the loss of revenue caused by free parking, and also by the business tax reduction to the municipalities themselves. And it turns out that in Dunaújváros it is not enough that the tens of thousands of people living in the county-righted city do not receive a penny of compensation, but even want to take away the existing one, because according to the draft, which the individual representative Gergely Kálló mentioned here, would eventually take away the existing Hankook grant from Dunaújváros, and would deprive Dunaújváros of all revenue in terms of the hundreds of billions of new investments that had been planned and promised by the Prime Minister. Mr. Secretary, how is this? Why are you doing this? Tell me honestly. Don't Hungarian people live in these settlements? Second-class citizens? Why are these people being punished? They're not using the service? Don't they have enough to do and trouble with Covid, do they have to be deprived of that money? It's not for the mayor or the council, and you know it. I need this money for public services. Why is there a distinction between Hungarian and Hungarian people? Be kind and answer that. [[15.50]]
u2021-05-17-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-17-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to assure you that we do not distinguish between Hungarian and Hungarian people, not even because the municipalities are in different situations; among these, you mentioned more among the municipalities in different situations, which are particularly well-off municipalities. It is the Metropolitan Municipality, Budapest, which is the richest settlement in this country. I would add that this is natural in the case of a capital city, and we can also be glad that while the country has regions that unfortunately we cannot be happy with, where 60% of the European Union's average standard of living is barely exceeded, the GDP per capita in Budapest is 151 percent, so if we look at it, I think it is a good result and performance. Therefore, if we measure it equally, we should take more money from Budapest and give more money to the countryside. For example, today Budapest is the only city where public transport is supported directly, directly, by the government, with significant amounts, by billions of dollars and even more than ten billion. Most of the money is outstanding, almost half of the theater grants, but more than a third of it will be given to Budapest, a city. So cities are in different situations. The government has made a number of decisions over the past period, when it has tried to get the poorer municipalities to see and appreciate that these funds have not, in any case, gone to the government, but to another municipality. These are the issues of distribution and distribution of funds within the local government sphere, where, if something from the richest, let us say, in the form of a solidarity tax, goes to the poorer, then I think that is a principle that should be supported, let us say, by a social democrat or a party who considers itself a social democrat. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, what you said would sound good if it were true. But you of all people know what you're saying is just not true. Minister, last December, you guys split the money to the municipalities. Was it or wasn't it? Don't tell me about the tax force and the wealth of settlements when you compensated Győr, Kecskemét and Székesfehérvár last December! Mercedes, Audi factories, workplaces, business tax, otherwise stuffed municipalities? How come you're here to tell us and the people that they're handing out money fairly, fairly and not on a political basis? Once again, I'm not interested in politics, Minister. We could agree that the BKV carries more passengers in one day than the MÁV in all Hungary, and the government is kind enough to help a little bit. I have one question. Are these Hungarian people paying taxes, these two million, or not? And if they pay, how do you come to make their lives miserable on a political basis? Give me an answer to that. Thank you.
u2021-05-17-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2021-05-17-119	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I cannot answer a question where the basic statement on the issue is not true. So the fact is that the government does not distinguish between people in any form, or where this distinction between municipalities is justified, we have always done so. The solidarity tax has been about this for years, not last year, but three or four years ago; and Budapest did not start paying a solidarity tax after the local elections in 19 or last year, but already paid a solidarity tax in 17 or so. So we have previously applied the principle that we have tried to direct some of the higher tax revenues of the richer municipalities to the poorer ones. You're talking about a decision made last December, but you don't mention the decision that was made this year. We gave operating aid to the municipalities, and the mayors elected in the cities supported by the socialists with county rights acknowledged that this was done correctly, on a need-based basis, on a tax basis. I'm asking you to respect that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-120	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. What does the government spend EU money on instead of renovating panel houses? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-121	I have to start by bowing down to the brilliant logic we heard from Minister. It is not enough that Budapesters who produce 30 percent more than average GDP produce VAT, not only pay their VAT, it is not enough that the capital companies pay most of the Tao revenue, it is not enough that they have already taken away half of the business tax and half of the car tax, then the very little that 93 percent of taxes have already been paid into the central budget, and now they have also taken away that 7 percent from the capital; and, by the way, the capital and the districts will not be compensated for it. But not only do they hate the capital and the metropolitan districts, but they also hate the people living in the panel apartments, as well as the people who otherwise live in a house with other building technology or an old farmhouse. Because the best solution in all aspects would be to renovate these houses, because this would reduce costs, reduce the risk of poverty, allow a pensioner or a family with multiple children to still have the minimum cost of other necessary things after paying their bills, and do not have to be afraid at the end of the month, but also serve environmental objectives. There is, therefore, a possibility, and there would be EU money for this now from the renovation fund, the starting-up fund. So there would be EU money. In the years to come... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit.]] No, even in the non-loaning part, my dear Secretary of State. Although you, of course, take on the Chinese loan, the Russian loan, the foreign exchange loan, it's all good; only the EU loan, which is very cheap, doesn't suit you, perhaps because you don't get a percentage of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, why don't you think the people in the panel program are important? Why don't they get a new EU fund? That's my question.
u2021-05-17-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-17-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I find the style of you accusing the ruling parties of hating anyone. We try not to hate anyone; we do not do this, not only in the case of voters, but we also try to look to those who give us cause to do so with love and forgiveness. At the same time, he managed to accuse me of committing a crime, as if we were to receive a percentage of any investment, credit, and I had never received any percentage of anything. This may have been an old practice during the governance of the Democratic Coalition, but I will inform the Member that this has ceased over a decade ago; and he will also make accusations that are completely contrary to what has happened in recent years. So, the first Orbán government launched support for the renovation of the panel apartments. Applications have been launched since 2001. The budget for the renewal applications of the panel program is HUF 68 billion. This is specifically available for the energy modernisation of panel buildings. In addition, several applications for the modernisation of heating systems for district heating apartments and housing cooperatives were launched in 2019 and.20, which were announced: spreading the use of smart-cost sharing, changing radiators; 5 HUF non-refundable support contributed to the energy modernisation of more than 50 thousand remotely heated apartments. Currently, applications can be submitted and 50% of the costs are eligible. The maximum amount of support per apartment is 400 thousand HUF. In addition, we will not only discuss the recovery fund with the Commission, and we have already submitted this plan, but we will also have the agreement in the seven-year budget, which represents an even more significant amount, sometime in the autumn, and we will also plan proposals for energy efficiency improvements. As soon as this agreement is reached, these applications will be published. I therefore think that we have done a lot for the important objective that we have also set out on this issue, which has also been supported by EU and domestic budgetary resources. I trust you can answer or rejoinder in a similar style. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-124	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-125	Every man for himself. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár, according to the style of yelling, and to you, according to the fact that he was at least trying to give a professionally meaningful answer. Unfortunately, the problem, Minister, is that these resources are not available to the majority of the people living in a panel house or in general the majority of those living in a condominium, on the one hand, because they are small compared to the real need. Today, about a third of the panelhouses are affected by some kind of renovation. However, very little of this has happened in the last ten years; most of it has happened in the period 2002-2010. [[16.00]] The 50 percent share is not acceptable to people who themselves have a difficult fate. A 50% self-renewal may be very suitable for the wealthy voters you like, but for those voters whose municipalities are being destroyed, and for those who are not important to you, for the large majority who live hard, these are not acceptable conditions for those who live hard. Once again, why not ask for EU funds for this? What better target have they found for EU funding?
u2021-05-17-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2021-05-17-127	Honourable Congressman, Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. It is difficult not to take as panel support when we had a programme to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy use in residential buildings, including loans with zero interest rates [[Gergely Harvestó: How many apartments?]] , but the biggest step is what you value down, but similar programmes have not started during the period of Balliberal Government, and this is that out of the HUF 6 million grant, you only have to pay back HUF 3 million, and for this HUF 3 million there is a ten-year term and a guaranteed, fixed interest rate of 3 percent. If you calculate this, this is the monthly instalment, which makes it possible for the lower middle class to renovate 6 million HUF. Of course, we agree, and that is why I have pointed out that the seven-year budget is an opportunity to do so, that only aid-based energy efficiency projects should be launched, and I also agree that this should concern the non-publishers. An agreement has not yet been reached on the details of the seven-year budget, but on the amount of funds due to Hungary. There will be a program otherwise [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which is also in line with your policy of support, but no government has ever taken such a step in Hungary in order to restore housing as we have done this year, in a crisis year anyway. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-128	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-05-17-129	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-05-17-130	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks for the answer in person from the Minister.
u2021-05-17-131	Thank you very much, I'd like to wait for the secretary.
u2021-05-17-132	I would like to inform Congresswoman that she has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a very important practical problem that concerns GP practices. Since November, there has been an emergency in Hungary due to a coronal virus epidemic, and until the date of the emergency, it prohibits the termination of workers in health institutions in healthcare institutions that are state or municipal reserve. However, most of the GP practices operate under contract law, some of the doctors are entrepreneurs. With them, health workers are subject to the Labour Code, which means that there is no notice. Thus, there are a number of situations, as has already been the case, that we know that in an entrepreneurial GP practice, the employee has either resigned or retired, possibly on maternity leave, and the GP is unable to fill the job, the job lost, the job as a nurse, because it is not possible to transfer from public health to general medical practices, so they are prohibited by this termination ban during a certain emergency. So this issue could jeopardise the functioning of many GP practices in the medium term, and my question is whether the government or the Ministry is considering this solution, or whether this problem has been raised, has indicated to you, and if so, what kind of solution they intend to take to this end. Thank you.
u2021-05-17-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The laws quoted were perfectly correct quotes, but I also think it is worth considering the other pan in the situation. So you're talking about the fact that a GP would like to hire someone in his practice, a nurse-educated specialist, if he could leave the hospital, but he can't leave the hospital because there's an epidemic. And if you're looking at the other side of this, because it might actually be useful for a GP somewhere if you could hire a new person, obviously the GP practices have more resources than ever, because this year we increased the funding of GP practices by HUF 71.5 billion, so that we are talking about HUF 119 billion in total, rising to HUF 314 billion in ten years. So there really is a lot more cover, so I can imagine that there are some general practitioners who can hire one or more of their co-workers for themselves, nurse, well, they're in this situation. However, if we were to release these people from hospitals, this rule came because the care of the Crown Virus would be at risk, and at the moment we had to consider what was most important, and the most important thing was to combat the epidemic as soon as possible, because if we overcome the epidemic, then the hospitals would be able to return to normal functioning and the general medical practices would also be able to return to normal, because the general medical practices have not been functioning in the last year as they did in the previous years, precisely because of the epidemic situation. Therefore, the disease must be overcome first, then these restrictions can be lifted, then workers can go from place to place. Obviously, it is important that they remain within the health system, and it is also important that we preserve the functioning of hospitals, and if that is the case, then we can talk about the situation that you have said. But I think you can see that, in recent months, and even today, maintaining the capacity of hospitals to defend themselves against the coronal virus is the most important goal, and then we can talk about everything else. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-136	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2021-05-17-137	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, we almost agree, but we don't, because GPs and GPs are an important part of defence. If they are left unaided, it is difficult for them to do this work alone because of vaccinations and other things. The problem is that it is difficult not to find a qualified and experienced professional from public health, but they could only employ a fresh graduate, but not too much of them. So I didn't mean to suddenly make it anywhere, but at least it's accessible so that they can go to the GPs, because there are many who are probably from the GP practice to the ambulance service or even hospitals. So the way back should also be allowed, since the general doctor can't be left without help, I'm quite sure of that. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Obviously, we fully agree that they should not be without help. We have increased our assistance this year, as this HUF 71.5 billion goes to the general practitioners, which also increases their financial opportunities, and we ask the general practitioners to be able to hire a colleague from anywhere now, but from the hospital where they treat patients with the coronal virus, do not bring a nurse to their home during this period, those nurses have a very important task of protecting themselves from the virus. Obviously, when the emergency is over, and this restriction is lifted, the passage will be freer, but now they can find a nurse from anywhere else but from one place where the patients with the coronal virus will be treated during the epidemic. We hope that as many people register for vaccination, as many people receive vaccination, so the epidemic will end as soon as possible, and then this situation will be resolved on its own, but in an exceptional situation such an extraordinary measure, I believe, is absolutely justified. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2021-05-17-140	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Since Members do not reside in the Chamber, the immediate question is Article 43 of the Parliamentary Act. Paragraph 3 of this Article shall be deemed to be withdrawn. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They are not at work at work! This is embarrassing.]] The Commission shall be deemed to have withdrawn pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: They are not at work at work! This is embarrassing. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, According to the official figures of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the annual rate of inflation in Hungary exceeded 5 per cent, to be exact, 5.1 per cent. Unfortunately, we have to say that we are not talking about a single outlier, and most analysts agree that, unfortunately, because of various factors, and in essence, we have arrived at the world of inflation. This view is supported by the Hungarian National Bank, which takes this data so seriously that for the first time in many years it has included an increase in interest rates. But if you look at the numbers, the situation is even more dramatic, as the basics of living have increased the most, including basic foods: for example, rice is about 8 percent, margarine is also about 8 percent, flour is also about 8 percent. Dry noodles are slightly less expensive, about 7 percent. But this is no longer the case for cigarettes, thanks to your increase in excise duty: cigarettes have increased by nearly 20 percent in one year. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that a problem?]] This is only above the price of food oil, which is 23 percent. Dear Minister, Food oil is needed for almost everything in cooking, increased by 23 percent in one year. And if that wasn't enough, I'm afraid I'll have to add that after the price of fuel, after the oil, gas oil and gasoline have increased by nearly 40 percent. These are terrible increases, Minister. So I ask what the government intends to do, so that those who suffer the most from this price increase get some breath. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-17-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, He was talking about annual inflation data, but to record it quite accurately: this is a monthly figure, so that 5.1 percent is not a one-year figure, because the last closed year is the year 2020 when inflation was far from approaching the amount you mentioned. If I remember correctly, inflation was 3.3 percent, but I've been risking inflation like that for years, maybe not for a decade, what you just mentioned. There is, indeed, such a monthly inflation rate, which you described as an annual, which is high, but it is also true that the greatest weight in this inflation rate was the increase in gas oil and petrol prices. We hope that the effects that have led to a rise in the price of diesel on the world market will also be reduced on their own. The government's aim is to keep inflation as low as possible, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that monetary policy is managed by the central bank and that the central bank is responsible for it, so the inflation target, i.e. inflation in the vicinity of 3 per cent, is clearly defined by the Central Bank as the task of the National Bank, so the central bank is primarily responsible for inflation. I believe that the central bank has the means, and it has the intention, to reduce the inflation impact and even reduce inflation itself, and I am quite certain that the monthly outlier or the high inflation rate, which is typical of the first few months, will be more moderate in terms of the year as a whole. Even so, it will probably be higher than last year, and there are some places where automatic financial settlement will take place, such as pensions, some where a separate decision can be made, but for now the government is confident that the central bank will be able to achieve or at least close to the inflation target this year. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-144	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-145	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, It's not hard to access the KSH website, I see you're trying to browse it, you know wrong. In April, prices increased by 5.1 percent to the same month of the previous year. This is called annual inflation data [[Gergely Gulyás intervenes.]] ; 0.8 compared to the previous month. Now, of course, if you are waiting for the annual average and we will have to wait for December this year for the government to finally realise that inflation is in Hungary, it is a different situation. They publish it every month and look at how we stand in terms of prices compared to the same period of the previous year. Well, Minister, that's how we stand in terms of prices. I know that this is not a big problem for everyone, because the Prime Minister's father recently made 800 million forints, according to press reports, in the new villa of Lőrinc Mészáros, the vault was recently erected, not even slightly; obviously because it is difficult to store this amount of money in the pillow kit. But small-time people and pensioners, believe me, they're going to suffer. So I'm asking you to try to do something. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-17-146	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-17-147	Honourable Congressman, Until our current dialogue, I thought that we were taking each other seriously, but in case this doesn't stand up, Parliament is definitely. So the fact that every month's inflation or other CSF data has an annual reference, and the fact that one data refers to one year, is two very different things. We are not talking about annual inflation, we are talking about a monthly inflation rate, which is always the reference of the previous year's month. That's okay, but mixing these two together and making them appear in this form is, to put it mildly, a slip, for which it would have been more elegant if it hadn't been answered or even apologized, because obviously it wasn't annual data. The annual data will be lower than this. I agree that inflation is the biggest problem for the poor, so it is important that where there is no balancing mechanism, the state should do what it can to help the poorest. And the fact that there are rich people in this country is only a problem if this wealth is not based on performance, and he mentioned a few people where you're supposed to be, but some red barons could be mentioned calmly, and I don't see them starving either. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-148	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Pesti, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - According to the left, the Chinese vaccine is not safe? ! It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Hungary's performance during a coronal virus epidemic is already recognised abroad. The WHO Regional Director of Europe, Hans Kluge, also praised the decisive measures and the exemplary vaccination campaign. But despite the successful defense during the epidemic, the left made sure that people were unsure on a daily basis. They've been producing fake news, camuvides, fake statistics, and they've been pissing people off against vaccines. One of the sad examples of this was when left-wing politicians put forward a motion for a resolution in Parliament demanding a ban on Sinopharm vaccine. I think you already know that this vaccine was considered safe and effective by the World Health Organization. Unfortunately, however, their proposal has not been withdrawn to this day. In the meantime, left-wing politicians have recognized that they are attacking vaccines incorrectly, so they deny that they have campaigned against the Chinese vaccine before, but you know that we also know what the truth is, that the document is on Parliament's website, that everyone can check it. Despite their lying claims, the vaccine could only be used in Hungary all the time, which was examined by Hungarian professionals and was considered completely safe. In addition to the currently authorised vaccines, the Sinopharm vaccine that you attacked is also responsible for Hungary being at the forefront of the world in the field of grafting. Dear Secretary of State, If we already know the Hungarian people are safe, then we can restart the Hungarian economy, so that everyone's lives can return to normal. So, with all due respect, what are the latest data on the number of transplants, where are we on the sheep vaccination? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[16.20]]
u2021-05-17-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, the number of people registered for vaccination in Hungary has already exceeded five million, and 81 percent have already received vaccination, so the number of people vaccinated has already exceeded 4.6 million. We couldn't have reached this number in that time, if there were no Eastern vaccines, there was no Russian and there was no Chinese vaccine. But how did the left politicians talk about the Chinese vaccine? Klara Dobrev, after recovering from the coronal virus, claimed on ATV that no one said they were effective. Let's see who the nobodies are, then, according to Dobrev Klara. First of all, the Hungarian epidemiological experts who said that the Chinese vaccine was effective; by then, the tens of millions of people to whom the Chinese vaccine has already been administered and the authorities that allowed it to be administered in other countries. According to this, no one in the OGYÉI, the pharmaceutical authority, who thoroughly tested the Chinese vaccine and gave it permission, and no one in the World Health Organization, WHO, which also authorized all adults, even recommended that we protect them from the coronal virus with the Chinese vaccine. That was the position of the left, and that is still the position of the left, because to date no left-wing Member has withdrawn the proposal for a parliamentary decision prohibiting the use of the Chinese vaccine. If they felt responsible for one moment, they would have signed not only the arc on which they submitted it, but they could also sign the same arch with the same hand movement in three seconds to withdraw it. But no, because here we saw Péter Jakab, and we even heard him say what Viktor Orbán wants to inoculate Hungarians; a Chinese, outdated, who knows what kind of vaccine comes from. It is a good thing that it is not Peter James who decides on these matters, but WHO that gives him international qualifications. Martin Gyöngyösi called this a human experiment. András Fekete-Győr told the government not to buy a Russian vaccine without EU permits because it's a waste of money. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In this, however, it seems that his own brother contradicted him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-152	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2021-05-17-153	I remind the destructive left-wing representatives, the Gyurcsány subjects [[Defiance and intervention in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Members of the Council will swear that their mandate will be for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In comparison, listening to their advisors in the campaign, they were interested in ensuring that as many as possible were dead and that protection was not successful. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In comparison, listening to their advisors in the campaign, they were interested in ensuring that as many as possible were dead and that protection was not successful. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell. ) This was formulated by expressis verbis. Many even spoke out against wearing a mask and questioned its usefulness. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) I'll wait and wait for your apology. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Z. Carpathian Daniel, the Jobbik... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] That's what happens when you watch a little to the left. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will be rejoined. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-17-155	Thank you very much. The left-wing quotes against vaccines, against Eastern vaccines, could almost be classified to an infinite extent. Gergely Arató:. We do not ask for vaccines that have not been tested by European professionals, and according to the news, their effectiveness is barely 50 percent. In this, Gergely Arató said that Hungarian professionals are not European professionals, and on the other hand he said that the vaccine that was actually recognised by the WHO is not effective. Dear House, There are few indicators and ratios in which Hungary can surpass the superpower of the world, the United States of America, but now the graft is just like this. This also required the Eastern vaccines, the Chinese, the Russian vaccine, while Hungary has tried to draw every vaccine available from the joint procurement in the EU to date and bring it to Hungary. But none of the left-wing representatives helped to import any vaccine that they would have brought from Brussels, but said that they would not work in Brussels to obtain more vaccines from joint procurement, but would work to prohibit Brussels from getting a vaccine on its own. Now, that was the huge irresponsibleness of the left, among other things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-156	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will the nation's wealth be rolled out?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes, I accept.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-157	Mr President, Dear House, There are many areas of failure in the last ten years of the government, but there is definitely a failure, which, according to the almost consensual position of the profession, has not really worked out, and this is the resolution of the housing crisis and crisis, especially in terms of young people's start-ups and potentials. In a little over ten years, Fidesz's property prices may have gotten out of hand, and the rent prices were so low that the government didn't provide any counter-opinion, while its own minister doesn't know how much the CSOK has increased property prices on a system-wide basis. At the same time, a ten million-dollar discount can be obtained in the current system, such as the construction of a Balaton estate, while a typical Hungarian youth in a living situation can rely on a preferential bank loan if the intermediary bank decides to do so. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) In fact, rent apartments have not been built over the past eleven years, but they have been assisted in evicting tens of thousands of our countrymen, and now I would like to throw these apartments at a fraction price, for pennies, for mass favors, for example, for fidesz minions in the Buda Castle, essentially for national property. So our question is clear, Minister, the news is about 60,000 to 70,000 apartments. How much has your measurements narrowed the rental property in the last 11 years? Now, how much do you want to throw away this for pennies at a price? Obviously, I'm not gonna ask the minions how much it costs, because they're not gonna answer that. How much more does housing cost a Hungarian youth than in 2010? I assume that this was assessed before such an amendment was made. Overall, it calculated the burden for a start-up young couple or family of 27 per cent of the VAT on food and/or child-rearing goods, the elimination of state aid for housing savings, and the increase in house prices and rent rates. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With which this government has not started anything, and should have done something about it. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-17-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the beginning, I was surprised to hear that he highlighted housing policy among the government's supposed failures, while I see that never, especially young and especially child-bearing families, have benefited from a similar housing policy, such as the Hungarian one. They have never received similar support, and if I look back at the governance of the left with whom you are now in an alliance, I can only recall that all the funds have been withdrawn, destroyed, erased, abolished and replaced by the foreign currency loan that we have had to deal with. [[Noise.]] and which, by the way, caused thousands of billions of HUF damage to Hungarian families. As far as your specific question is concerned, because there were many elements in the list that did not match reality, but, if I understand correctly, the specific question concerned a bill or a motion by individual representatives: the government has not discussed this yet, and in general this is in line with the government's policy that we do not want to see tenants but owners in Hungary, but, of course, there is the parliamentary debate, in the parliament there is also the possibility of former mayors and politicians with knowledge, knowledge and experience to comment on the proposal. The government will also consult, I will personally consult mayors, and then the government will discuss and decide the proposal, and the final decision will be for the Parliament. I hope that we can create a law that is acceptable to the municipalities, but at the same time it will contribute to the fact that the poorest people, in addition to a decent municipal housing policy, are not the rich living in the existing dwellings, it may be so in the settlements led by Jobbik, but I hope that not elsewhere in the country. So if we can make it possible for the poorest to become at least partially owners, then I think this is a particularly good decision by government or good Parliament. So we're asking for your support. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-160	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2021-05-17-161	Mr President, Dear House, Would Zsolt Bayer and Philip Rákay and your minions be in need? Minister, you won't be able to explain this to your children and grandchildren. You're wasting your national fortune to serve your minions. This is an incredibly repulsive attitude, and we also see that the remnants of the social safety net are being dismantled, not only with the more than 18,000 evictions they have assisted, but also with the fact that they are now taking property away from the tenants in need, for those who are not in need, or not all of them in need, because perhaps your service personnel are not in need of social transfers or discounts. Mr. Secretary. If you didn't dare to answer all these questions, because I don't think you know how much less the housing stock has been, or how much more a young person pays, you should answer why you voted against the amendment of the basic law, which would oblige the Government of Hungary to develop a housing policy so that all our young and difficult countrymen can obtain affordable housing, taking into account the current income standards. If you have rejected this, then forgive me for looking very, very nasty of you, whether it be the apartments in the Buda Castle or the local government rental property. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] selling it out for pennies. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-17-162	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2021-05-17-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, So far, Parliament has followed the good practice that even if Jobbik had a good idea, it was related to policy or housing policy. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] We did not put it into a constitution, but in practice our policy is in line with the principle that you have just set out, that is to say, that poorer families also have the possibility of housing, and that own property, which we believe the lease will never replace; it can provide a temporary solution, but the lucky thing is that a poorer family also has the opportunity to acquire property. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The government's family policy and the family support system, which in Europe allocates state resources to families in the highest proportion of GDP, serve this. What I would just like to say is that if we are talking about really needy tenants, then the bill of individual representatives that you are debating, according to your motion, would become the owners of the real tenants in need. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And the home mafia!]] I agree that we should discuss that there should be some limit to this, which will ensure that municipalities can manage their own homes to the extent necessary, but generally I consider the principle to be right and should be enforced so that poorer families can also be owners. Rent building is not the way to do it, it wants to provide a solution in a worse situation. We'll do better. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We would like to provide, we would also like to give property to poorer families. This is what government housing policy serves. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-164	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As soon as the second wave of the coronal virus became clear, the virus cannot be overcome by any means other than limiting it. The only effective solution is the vaccine. The Fidesz-KDNP government, recognizing all of this, contacted all potential vaccine manufacturers and sought alternative solutions to ensure that the spread of the vaccine can be achieved as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the left focused on its party policy goals rather than overcoming the epidemic as soon as possible. Left-wing politicians campaigned against vaccination, but they gave you the vaccine. They did not vote for the necessary emergency authorisation, spread false news, produced camuvideos, and continue to campaign against vaccination. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government did its job regardless, which led us to another milestone in the battle against the Crown Virus a few weeks ago. On 30 April, we reached 4 million first inoculated people, and at the end of last week 4.5 million, which is a truly unique performance not only in Europe but also in the world. More than 46 percent of Hungary's population received their first vaccination. In line with the social need expressed in the national consultation, from 1 May we have reached a new stage of gradual opening. The hotels, leisure facilities, museums, cinemas, theatres, gyms and sports events have been opened to those with an Immunity Certificate. Dear Secretary of State, According to last week's data, in terms of total grafting, including the administration of both vaccines, we are the first in Europe and the tenth in the world. On the basis of the above, therefore, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government is doing for the next step of the gradual opening. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister.
u2021-05-17-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it is a recognition to all those involved in defence, as there are few rankings worldwide where Hungary can be among the most effective 10 to 12 countries, and if I do not count the city states, then there are perhaps 10 to 11 countries with a higher level of grafting than in Hungary. It's the graft that can best provide security for people. We saw how health systems couldn't cope in other countries; even in rich countries like France or Belgium, Spain, Italy, what news we saw: people didn't get into the hospital, but they got respiration in hospital parking lots, or there was only room in hospital corridors, or hospital dining rooms were changed, or they were taken by trains from one city to another, doctors from abroad, or patients were taken abroad. Patients did not get enough ventilators, or even three patients had a ventilator, while in Hungary, thank God, the number of respirators per person is among the world's top. We have seen that even in France the treatment of cancer patients has been delayed because of the strain on patients due to the coronal virus epidemic. In Switzerland, people were asked to make a provision in advance to request or not to seek treatment if they could be critical because of the coronal virus, and in several countries we could see that only the younger patients had a ventilator, older or chronic patients had no respirator, no treatment had been given. On the other hand, in Hungary there was a hospital bed for all patients, there was the medication needed, and there were nurses, doctors for everyone, just because we didn't do nothing during the summer, but thousands of health workers. [[Zoltán Varga: How many people died? The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We trained you for the control of the coronal virus, so they got the knowledge that in the second and third waves they were able to protect people's health. Thank you very much, I'll continue from here. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-168	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-169	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We are very pleased that last week the vaccination of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 has started, and thanks to the government's supply of vaccine, there are so many vaccines in Hungary that anyone can choose one of the vaccines. Therefore, I would like to ask those who are still hesitating and have not registered to take the opportunity to fully restart life as soon as possible. The vaccine saves lives. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can remember what the Hungarian left demanded in January-February this year, when it broke into the British viral mutant Hungary: they demanded that it be opened, even the catering spaces open, the terraces open, and the government withdraws the restrictive measures imposed in November last year. This was demanded when the British viral mutant arrived in Hungary. And we have also seen that in the last few weeks, after the teachers had been vaccinated out of turn, and fortunately, the vaccination had already risen to the same heights, thanks to God in Hungary, as in almost no other European country, but they opposed the fact that they were going to graduate, they opposed the opening of kindergartens, the opening of lower schools, and then carefully and gradually the opening of higher schools and secondary schools, and the coming experts from the WHO told regional European leaders and other leading professionals that schools should be closed for the last time and that they should be opened for the first time. The left demanded an opening when it was really time to maintain the closure, and when it was already due to the Eastern vaccines, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At that time, they opposed the fact that Hungarian students could pass their graduations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-172	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 39 minutes, and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will continue our work by discussing the questions. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:.. Can the people living in Sümeg and its region count on the Government's help? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I need your help with a problem involving Shümeg and its area. One of the two 24-hour rescue cars of the rescue station in Sümeg was shut down for the night, so from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., one rescue car is available for nearly 20,000 inhabitants of the region. Anyone who has worked in this area, even like me, or has served in the region, knows that this is very little, especially when otherwise common psychiatric patients are tasked with transferring an ambulance to Veszprém. Sometimes there are no ambulances in the region for up to three hours. This problem is compounded by the many times, unfortunately, ever more frequent interruption of medical care. There are three 24-hour units serving in Tapolca, which is very good, and the care is working well, but if you have to help from Tapolca in the Sümeg region, for example, to resuscitation in Gogánfa, the patient's chances are greatly reduced. This is compounded by a change in the obligation to provide territorial care during the pandemic. In such a case, surgical trauma patients from Shumeg's surroundings should also be transported to Veszprém. If, after the pandemic, this territorial supply obligation is maintained in an endemic period, there will be more of these periods when the area is without an ambulance. Because of the above, I think it is important to return the abstract night watch number to Sümeg, along with the 24-hour service. I therefore ask, with respect, Mr Secretary of State, what they are doing to this end. Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-174	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I reassured everyone in Sümeg, the people in the region, in general Veszprém County, and in the whole country that the rescue was much higher and safer than before, say, ten years ago, because in 2010 the left spent HUF 26 billion on saving, which increased from HUF 59 billion this year to HUF 26, while next year's budget law included HUF 65.4 billion. So much more is what can be managed in the rescue. We've also built a new rescue station, 34 to get to Sümeg faster, anywhere else in the country, and we've renovated 107 rescue stations so that ambulances can move faster. It is also important for ambulances to reach their destination, whether from Sümeg or from anywhere in the country. If you look at the average age of ambulances at the end of left-hand steering, you'll see that it's 8.3 years. Now 4.7 years. It's not because the ambulances are getting younger, it's because we bought a lot of new ambulances. The left didn't buy new ambulances, didn't update the car park, we tried to buy hundreds of ambulances each year to get the average age of ambulances from 8.3 to 4.7 years, and not to explode, to stand in the garage, not to send them to a mechanic, but to go out to the patients and help. One and a half billion forints of work clothes were important. The 3 billion HUF extra resource was important during the coronal virus epidemic, precisely so that patients could be cared for, and it was also important for the Shimegians to know that in the 24-hour duty ambulance, as you said, the surrounding rescue stations are also known, if necessary, if more cars are needed, the ambulances will go there to ensure that everyone's lives are safe. In Sümegen and its region, there has been a total of 402 million forints of health development in recent years in order to preserve and protect people's health not only in emergency situations, but also in all other cases. We were not interested in what the left did, that he had reduced these capacities, but we increased the number of rescue stations, radically increased the rescue budget, and now the car park is much younger than it was ten years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, What about the renegotiation of " Ukrainian pensions " and the relevant convention? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Ms Katalin Novák, who is responsible for families, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Fellow Members! Every year, the question has to be asked how many people use the Hungarian social benefits that now look like they've been travelling across the border in business for years. It is also well known that the yearbook on stock statistics has not been published in the case of pensions for years, and that is why my fellow Members and I are going to turn to the relevant wallet with a written question, an interpellation or an immediate question or a question. We get signs of mass abuse every day. It's about mass abuse, that they're not just coming for the pension today, they're coming for the family allowance, the maternity allowance, the job search support. No mistake, not from those of Hungarian origin who settled in Hungary in their old age, live here in Hungary, they do not feel sorry for the Hungarian pension, but you know that if they go to Zahony on pension pay day and find a cash machine at random, they will find 20-30 meters of lines there, and more people speak Russian and Ukrainian than they do in Hungarian. They abuse fictitious announcements by mass. You know, police investigations have been launched, but we still do not know how many Ukrainian citizens who do not live in Hungary are receiving Hungarian pensions. I would also like to ask how much this costs to Hungarian society, if you will, for the Hungarian pension fund. How the negotiations have been with the Ukrainian party in the last ten years, since Hungary concluded negotiations with Ukraine at the end of 2009. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-178	Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-17-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A key issue for a future agreement is how to guarantee the enforcement of the interests of the Hungarian minority living in Transcarpathia. I would like to inform you that in all cases the provision of benefits may be determined and paid only if the conditions laid down in the Convention are met, otherwise the application for a pension shall be rejected by the Office. It is up to the government agencies carrying out pension insurance tasks to examine the existence of residence in our country in the course of the procedure, insofar as there is doubt about this. When checking the residence of the persons concerned by the Convention in our country of life, four aspects are examined: the building is located at the client's declared address, this building can actually serve as a home for someone and use it as a home or moved to Hungary with final intention and settled with the consent of the authority. If the investigation finds that the person requiring the benefit does not live at the given address in Hungary, the benefit will not be determined, the application will be rejected. If, during the period during which the benefit is paid, it is established that the pensioner does not comply with the statutory conditions, the pension payment shall be terminated and the benefits received without legal basis shall be recovered from the person concerned. I can assure you, Member, that the Hungarian State Institutional System is taking action against unauthorized claims. And I would also ask you to stop hating our countrymen across the border. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-180	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: It's an address. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2021-05-17-181	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Remember, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó banged his breasts next to his favourite airplane a few days ago in connection with his trip to Croatia, and allow me to quote exactly:. We agreed to mutually accept the vaccination certificates issued by each other, and all those who have a vaccination certificate are free to travel between the two countries. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[16.50]] Compared to this, if we look at the consulate's website now, there is this information, and I would also quote, "The visitor must show the protective plastic card and the paper-based vaccination certificate, which includes both vaccination dates. Entry is possible if it is 14 days after the second vaccination. So Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó either lied again or simply has no idea what kind of agreement he has reached with Croatia. In the present state, in the case of the Croatian coast, the Orbán protection certificate is such a nice summer destination for Hungarians, as we say, the Orbán-plasty itself is only good for winter ice scraping. We need a card that contains data that allows Hungarians to travel across Europe. Let's see what you guys look like. The website freezes because people aren't prepared to know how to get shots. Nearly 30,000 Hungarians died in proportion to the population in the world. Now it's the card that turns out otherwise it's not worth a toss, after all, it's not about what and how many times the card owners have been vaccinated. We see that Germany warns that it will not allow those who have been vaccinated with an Eastern vaccine, the same situation in Austria, now they will not issue a green card. It's chaos and chaos, it's bankruptcy. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians will not be able to travel, work, and thousands of young people will not be able to study abroad. What about those who booked accommodation on the Croatian coast and did it in vain? Secretary of State, please respond. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Shame on you!]]
u2021-05-17-182	Dear Parliament, Tamás Men-czer, State Secretary, answers the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start from the point where, as you know, I have spent a great deal of time in sports, and in sports I have learned to respect the opponent; not to look down on the way you do, but to respect it, and I practice it, though I must add that in your case it is not easy. I would like to draw your attention to the immeasurable amount of nonsense you've said here, and what I don't know where it came from may have three reasons, three reasons I see: either a complete lack of information, a problem of abilities, or an amazing malice. I'm not ruling any of them out. I would also like to say that you are a well-known anti-vaccination politician. I quote your statements:, It is a scandal that the panic government would force Hungarians to have an untested vaccine of already uncertain origin in Europe. The World Health Organization, the world's most important health authority, has said that this vaccine is effective and safe. Once again, I quote you, "The Chinese vaccine, which has been experimented with indeterminate methods, should not be placed on the market." That's what you said. This vaccine already protects the lives of a million people in Hungary. [[Zoltán Varga: Or not!]] Again, I quote you: We are not campaigning against something, we are campaigning for something, and this is called normality. In a normal or at least normal world, a political party, namely the Hungarian left, would not risk the lives of Hungarian people. On your question, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have lied, as usual, as your party president has, and has confessed. They lied in the morning, at noon, at night and at night. [[Zoltán Varga: Answer my question!]] And by the way, it's pretty much the same as it was then, in the past year and a half or two, you can travel to Croatia. You said you couldn't travel anywhere with an Eastern vaccine. You can travel in and we have informed Hungarian citizens in detail how. They'll be able to go on vacation. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What does the government do to protect the shoreline of Lake Fertő? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the framework of the natural ruinous Lake Fertő project, a 100-room hotel and an apartment unit of 26 units are planned to be built directly on the shore of the lake, but these plans clearly do not comply with the six-metre coastal band limitation provided for in the current government decree for Lake Fertő. According to the construction plans, both the hotel and the apartment house of 26 units are built directly on the beach. This is not only a threat to the ecology and water quality of Lake Fertő, but it can also set a precedent for the installation of other state-owned lakes in the future. We are afraid that this will be at Lake Balaton, this will be at Lake Venice, this will be at Lake Öreg in Tata, only guests of the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros can enjoy the proximity of the water, they can go to the beach, only the privileged 1 percent can enjoy our Hungarian lakes, the majority, the 99 percent can't. Dear Minister, Since the local population and the Great Lakes Coalition have not received an answer from the state-owned Sopron-Fertő Tourism Developer Nonprofit Zrt., please respond here in Parliament to the steps the government is planning to take in order to modify the plans in such a way that they comply with the protection of the six-metre coastal band. I'm waiting for your answer. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-05-17-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Károly Kontra, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I answer that question, allow me to return to the oral question I just asked. The names of Croatia and other foreign destinations have been mentioned for this year's holiday. Allow me, as a member of the Parliament of Balaton, to recommend the Balaton to the attention of those who wish to travel in Hungary, since there is no place more beautiful than Lake Balaton for relaxation and relaxation. I recommend that everyone pay attention to the Balaton [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] And I think they'll make the right choice if they choose Lake Balaton. Thank you very much. As far as the Member's question is concerned, I would like to say that Hungary's Fundamental Law states that the natural values of the Carpathian Basin must be protected, the Government pays particular attention to preserving it for future generations and providing a viable environment. Regulation (EC) No 83/2014 Government decree lays down protection rules for the coastal band. On this basis, it shall provide the maintenance of the beach with the basic and professional tasks of the State with which it is to be used. It also regulates legal enforcement for this purpose. If the activity hindering the completion of the maintenance work is carried out, the owner of the property shall be obliged to terminate the unlawful status and restore the original status. If the owner of the property fails to comply with his maintenance notice, the competent water authority shall initiate the procedure. Honourable Congressman, As regards the expansion of the tourism infrastructure related to the renovation of the lake site in Fertő, the manager of Lake Fertő, the North Transdanubian Water Management Directorate, informed that the planned development does not prevent the management of lake management and maintenance work, neither the National Directorate for Water Management nor the North-Transdanubian Water Directorate from withdrawing the construction permits issued. Remedies against building permits may be made in the manner laid down in the General Administrative Regulation Act. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What are the possibilities for smaller farmers to be supported by the Agricultural Ministry from the Rural Development Programme? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary supports the Hungarian countryside on an unprecedented scale. He does this not only through the Ministry of Agriculture, but also through the Hungarian village programme and other forms of support. Within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, I keep going around the country, and I am happy to see that the Hungarian countryside is going through a huge development, something is building up everywhere, the drastic population loss has stopped, the small settlements are populating with young people thanks to the village CSOK. We value the Hungarian countryside and treat the people there as an ally. I find it outrageous, therefore, that Peter James, sitting on a couch, made demeaning manifestations that emphasized the stupidity and indifference of the rural people, joined by the left-wing coalition, proclaiming a well-known rural desecration approach. In the name of the people of the country, we ask for this demeaning approach. Even so, we will strengthen the hand of the Hungarian countryside in the future, and we will further support rural people, giving them self-esteem and opportunity. One of our most important missions will continue to be the development of rural areas, the improvement of the quality of life of people living there, the creation of attractive and locally accessible jobs and services for young people. This will continue in the future, and this will be supported by the Agricultural Ministry. Our priority is to create jobs in rural areas and to support those active in agriculture on an ongoing basis. The government recently announced that, through the rural development pillar of the common agricultural policy, it could spend HUF 4265 billion on the development of the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian agriculture and food industry until 2027. [[17.00]] Supporting and protecting the smallest, and doing so for local producers, are key in my view. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what opportunities the Agricultural Ministry supports smaller farmers from the rural development programme. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Following the experience of the call for the development of small agricultural plants, which was announced in 2016 and can be tendered for two years, the call for proposals was reopened in November 2020 with an amount of HUF 2.5 billion. The call for proposals under the rural development programme is particularly successful, based on their capabilities and ambitions, in a call for support for the incomes and economically more footholds of small farmers, as well as for the strengthening of employment. The government considers it important to support small farms in rural areas producing for local markets, but not yet reaching a competitive scale, but with the potential to develop, as these producers are the main pillars of the local economy. Support under the call can be given to them to expand the means to produce products, modernise the product structure and process raw materials more effectively. The popularity of the call, the success of the announced measure, is no better than the number of aid applications received at the two stages of the submission, which is close to 4,500 pieces. The number of farmers supported until mid-May 2021 exceeds 1200 and the aid granted is HUF 6.72 billion. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In the framework of the call, beneficiaries may apply for a single grant of HUF 15 000. Seventy-five percent of the aid amount will be paid at the same time as the instrument of support comes into force, which will be of great help to farmers. The amount awarded may be used for the purchase of equipment, machinery, plantation or purchase of animals. It is important to stress that the Government intends to support all applicants who meet the criteria. The aid application may be submitted at the third stage of the call, which now runs from 3 to 17 June. The amount of the call will increase greatly. The amendment to the call for proposals will be published soon, which will provide an additional HUF 30 billion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the reason for the transfer of the Upper Szabolcsi Hospital to the Hungarian Metropolitan Church? Won't the transfer cause a problem with the quality of health care? How is the decision in the interest of the inhabitants of the region? Did you consult with the local authorities or the local population about the transfer in advance? Does the state still own the hospital? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I was informed by the media that the maintenance of the Upper Szabolcsi Hospital in Kisvárda will be the Hungarian Metropolitan Church from 1 July 2021. The transfer is free of charge, the fact of this is already published in the Hungarian Gazette. The population of the region is very interested in the impact of the transfer of maintenance rights on health care, guaranteed that after the transfer the current level of benefits will be maintained, possibly increased or worsening; there will be no reduction in benefits; possibly class closure; and guaranteed labour security for workers there; no possible reduction in wages and allowances; a reduction in the number of employees is expected. These and many others are of interest to the locals. To date, we feel that neither the government nor the local government has given the public a reassuring explanation of the reasons and consequences of the transfer of maintenance rights. The Government decision granting the maintenance right does not contain any reference to this, except for a semi-phrase. The most important institution of the quality of health care in the region is the Upper Szabolcs Hospital in Kisvárda, which is why the future of the hospital is of paramount importance to all people living in Upper Szabolcs, as it affects everyone directly. On the basis of the above, I ask the honourable Secretary of State why the Hospital of Upper Szabolcsi should be handed over to the Hungarian Metropolitan Church. Won't the transfer cause a problem with the quality of health care? How is the decision in the interest of the inhabitants of the region? Did you consult with the local authorities or the local population about the transfer in advance? Does the state still own the hospital? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since Jobbik has replaced the double cross with the hashtag in its logo, I see that this has also changed your attitude, you have joined the left-wing choir, honourable Member. It seems that Jobbik now wants to be more DK on ecclesiastical matters than DK, and it is attacking when the church takes over a health institution, honourable Member. In the past, Jobbik would have supported this, and I think the previous policy would have been that, as the churches in history have played a very big role in schools and hospitals, this balance would have been restored. Now, you seem to be trying to be skeptical and spread rumors on this issue, honourable Member. You know very well that the churches have kept hospitals up for centuries and thousands of years, and the establishment and maintenance of numerous hospitals in Hungary is also linked to the churches. There are still church hospitals today. The Greek Catholic Metropolitan Church, the Greek Catholic Church, did not have such a scale of health involvement, but Greek Catholic believers are the best in this part of the country. However, many social institutions and educational institutions have also been taken over by Greek Catholics, and this is complemented by the adoption of the hospital. If you read the legislation, you can see that the property will be subject to a disposal and debit ban, precisely so that they can be used for educational purposes only and only for educational purposes, for social purposes, and in this case for health purposes. It was precisely your allies who closed medical buildings and wanted to sell health buildings for other purposes; while the churches have been expanding health institutions for centuries and thousands of years and trying to provide health care as much as possible. The legislation is, of course, guaranteeing both wages and legal relationships. The legislation guarantees territorial supply obligations. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But the church can add that you should heal not only the disease, but also the sick. In all of this medical treatment, they may be able to do more to help those living here to recover sooner or to avoid illness more effectively. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/15987. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee will be the first to speak in the debate, who will present the committee's position. And the rapporteur is Congressman Dávid Héyj. I'll give you the floor, please.
u2021-05-17-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15987 amending certain agricultural legislation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The need to amend certain agricultural legislation is justified by the technical clarification of the substantive and procedural rules of the laws contained therein, by replacing the shortcomings of the past period, by implementing certain EU directives into the Hungarian legal order, and by establishing regulatory consistency with other laws, in order to increase efficiency, eliminate inconveniences and achieve legal harmonisation objectives. I would like to draw some major laws out of the bill package. LII of 2003 on State recognition of plant varieties and on the production and placing on the market of propagating material It is necessary to amend law, as in recent years there has been a sharp increase in the number of internet sales, which has been further increased in the epidemic situation. [[17.10]] In particular, it has become a general trend for vine and propagating material to be sold via the Internet, so it is necessary to establish a legal basis for verifying this form of sale, which makes the purchase of tests by the authority simpler and cheaper and, in this context, improves the effectiveness of official controls. CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. The primary objective of the amendment to Law No 1 is to amend the rules on the use of land for other purposes without authorisation. In order to ensure the feasibility of the obligation to protect land laid down in the Fundamental Law, Article P of the Fundamental Law provides that natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, and cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which for future generations is the duty of the State and everyone. According to the data of the KSH, Hungary's agricultural land area decreased by more than 35,000 hectares last year, which is a very sad fact. As provided for by the Fundamental Law, it is therefore our duty to protect our soils, forests, and water resources. The agricultural compensation scheme, which has been in place since 2012, has so far adequately compensated producers' losses due to adverse weather conditions, but in recent years it has been noted that the weather has become increasingly extreme, which may lead to a lack of resources for the compensation fund. The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production is therefore necessary. Amendment of law, since the amendment of the law could increase the amount of the producer contribution. It is important to emphasise that this would be the first time in almost ten years of the system. XLVI 2008 on the food chain and its official supervision. The amendment of the law concerns a very important area, as at present about two million of our countrymen suffer from ragweed allergies in Hungary. Accelerating the investigation of public interest notifications related to the control of ragweed and repealing the provision on the number of plants of the culture plant will facilitate more effective protection in the public interest. On both professional and civil sides, it is expected that the authority designated for the control should eliminate the occurrence of ragweed contamination as soon as possible. Dear House, The proposal submitted is a package of legislation with improved intention, including technical corrections. The adoption of the amendments will further clarify and modernise the legal environment, which is intended to address the problems that arise in practice and should therefore be supported by the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-05-17-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, if you would like to speak now. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Your speech will focus more on debate and closing, thank you very much. Then you will have a 15-minute timeframe at the disposal of the Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Agriculture Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain agricultural legislation includes amendments to some 22 laws. The bill was also discussed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Committee on Agriculture and then the Legislative Committee, followed by a number of amendments. Pursuant to Article P of the Fundamental Law, land is a common heritage of the nation, whose protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations is the duty of the state and of all citizens. In view of this, the proposal addresses the issue of agricultural land in a number of places. The soil is the basis for our national treasure, the operation of domestic agriculture and the safe food supply of the population, which is why the proposals for protection of the soil protection law are welcome. The rules relevant to production have been laid down to ensure the proportionality of the development for the production of solar energy in order to protect the soil as laid down in the Fundamental Law. It is worth mentioning here that we may not need to install solar parks on our best lands. The provisions amending the law amending the rules for the liquidation of undivided common property, which entered into force on 1 January 2021, are also of particular importance for agriculture. The package of proposals in question contains a number of amendments that will enable the parties concerned to carry out procedures more effectively. Additional guarantees have also been included in the determination of the purchase price in cases where the ownership of a partner is purchased. In order to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, it is essential to settle the situation of ownership as soon as possible, and these amendments are aimed at achieving these objectives. It is of particular importance for the common heritage of the agricultural land as a nation that Hungarian farmers continue production there. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Cooperatives initiated the amendment of the bill with a view to ensuring, on the one hand, the transparency of land traffic and, on the other hand, the right to acquire ownership of the land only to those who are actually entitled to it. According to the amendment, it is appropriate to take into account the property rights on the ground and other burdens on the ground in the course of the official approval of the sales contract when examining the consideration for the transaction. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation is to ensure and increase the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture by helping people in the sector to live with effective provisions. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will be very brief at this stage of the debate. I was very pleased to hear Mr Balázs Győrffy speak out, so to speak, saying that solar panels should not be installed in the best quality agricultural fields. I very much agree with that, and in general we are more radical in this regard: we say that solar panels should not be created in agricultural fields. Therefore, this type of regulation, despite the fact that we agree with a lot of ideas and even fundamentally agree with the ideas that the bill also puts forward, is not acceptable to us in this way and we cannot support it. We believe that there would be plenty of opportunities to cover the country with solar panels, let's say, but in such a way that not the agricultural land, but even the rooftops, the public buildings and the rest. There would be a lot of opportunities, it would be a huge opportunity for Hungary to break out, but the land is indeed a treasure where it is a sin to install solar cells, despite the fact that, of course, we are fully in favour of spreading renewable energy as widely as possible. Overall, because of this point, we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-05-17-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Yes, he wants to answer. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary, that, as I have already said, you have a 15-minute timeframe. You have the floor, please.
u2021-05-17-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this debate, I might say, has already come to pass during the detailed discussion, if I may use this term, where all agricultural representatives of all parties have spoken their thoughts on this law. I believe that the TAB's amendments or the Commission's amendments were all intended to serve the purpose of amending this law and this salad law, which includes amendments to 22 laws, can provide not only answers to competitiveness but also to predictability and security in the sector. I think we all agree that the priority topics that this law contains are plant varieties, the issue of reproductive material, they are about today, but I must say that they will serve the future, so it is extremely important to amend the passagees of this law. [[17.20]] Everyone's interested in protecting the soil, in this, I think there's no difference between us. I am also extremely pleased that solar parks cannot be built on areas with a golden crown higher than 14 golden crowns. Although the solar park, we know it's a very good thing, but at the same time, if it's such a dark day, it's not going to produce much. But it's not our topic, it's not a agricultural issue. Rather, I have to say that this has already been a step forward in the fact that we have been able to reduce the creation of solar panels to this extent in areas with a golden crown, in areas with lower fertility, so to speak. It is clear to me that this is for the protection of agricultural land, and it is for us to be safe. However, what my fellow Christian Member has outlined is that perhaps this should be placed on the roof of public buildings and on the roof of objects, in which, I must say, I fully agree, precisely in order to ensure that as little land as possible is used for this purpose; but in this, we still have enormous potential for areas that are not really for competitiveness, not for natural areas. There are such areas of the country, but they are not connected, so I could say, either with an electrical network and other infrastructure conditions, where it would perhaps be best to develop these areas or solar panels, where there are precisely those infrastructure deficiencies which could be another programme. But still, I have to say, there's no such difference between us. At the same time, of course, when we are talking about the agricultural compensation fund, it is also extremely important that we are seeing the weather of the last few days here, and we are seeing what natural disasters have occurred in certain smaller areas in terms of hailing, storm damage and the rest, how important and up-to-date it is to recharge the compensation fund and to draw the attention of the farming community to the fact that, in a larger area, it is not only possible to create the safer, more predictable conditions for their farming, including participation in and cooperation in the compensation fund. I gave our opinion on grass protection during our previous trial. I maintain today that not only agriculture has a role to play in this protection against ragweed, but also specifically municipalities, other organisations, railway, road and other organisations or companies that use public spaces. There are a number of places where we encounter very high levels of infection, like a house, a property, an unbuilt area, and they can't even tell who owns it anymore. Here are the real problems. In agriculture, if we are talking about a carefully cultivated land, and there are more and more of these in the country, which I think we can be very happy about, the least of which will be the ragweed. This is a certain agro-technical issue, not least in the interests of the owner himself. Overall, of course, it is no longer necessary to refer to the twenty-two laws today, but I thank the committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture for their work with amendments, which make this law better, safer and not least, as I have just said, more predictable. I request your support for the adoption of the law in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws in the field of service and judicial sector regulation and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15972. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr László Salacz. I give you the floor, please.
u2021-05-17-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws in the field of service and judicial sector regulation T/15972. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 4 abstentions. The purpose of the bill is to amend certain laws of judicial and administrative procedural law in order to ensure that the practical experience of the application of the law is properly used and implemented and that the laws are in line with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. The bill contains a number of technical amendments. These include the need to amend several international and European Union legislation on criminal law and criminal cooperation due to Brexit in order to ensure that the exchange of criminal information, access to criminal record systems and various forms of international criminal assistance can continue to work smoothly. Dear House, As of 1 July 2022, new EU delivery and evidence-gathering regulations will replace the rules on civil assistance between the Member States of the European Union. Provisions relating to the implementation of the regulations currently in force are laid down in the Law on Court Enforcement, the Civil Procedure Act and the Law on Private International Law. The new delivery and new evidence-gathering regulation contains new elements that require legislative action to ensure their proper application in Hungary, and therefore the amendment of those laws has also become necessary. The bill also makes minor adjustments to certain laws. The amendment of a technical nature concerns certain provisions of the Constitutional Court Act, the Public Service Officers Act, and the Act on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the proposal put forward by the Government contains proposals for legislative amendments to facilitate the proper application of EU regulations and, on the other hand, seeks to make the application of law and procedures more effective and simplified on the basis of years of practical experience. In our increasingly rapidly changing world, it is important to adapt to social and technical conditions, but also with regard to our obligations to harmonise EU legislation. This bill serves these purposes, and I therefore call on this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, whether he would like to speak as rapporteur or save his speech for debate or closing. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. The Secretary of State informed me that, as I said, he focused on the debate and the closing word on his speech. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, and there will be no two-minute speeches during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that he wishes to add something in this context, because there has not been a substantive debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] No, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Coronary Virus pandemic are now under discussion and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15997. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[17 .30]] I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr László Salacz. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. The current unusual restrictions require great patience from all citizens, but with the certification of discipline and cooperation it is now possible to alleviate. The Hungarian vaccine procurement strategy has proved successful. We are proud to say that Hungary is fighting the Crown Virus pandemic with one of the most effective vaccination programmes on the continent. But the new virus variants are spreading around the world, including in our country. Therefore, increased protection remains essential. To this end, the Government of Hungary shall propose the extension of the scope of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic until the 15th day following the first day of the autumn parliamentary session in 2021. However, the proposal is also very forward-looking that the government may terminate the emergency prior to this if the basic statutory conditions for maintaining it no longer exist. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has introduced a number of measures with its regulations in order to counter the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, which threatens the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, as rapid action by the executive authority is essential in such trying times. The bill on the House's table amends the date of the expiry of Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic in order to protect against the Crown Virus pandemic so that it will expire on the 15th day following the first sitting of the 2012 autumn parliamentary session, the calendar date of which will be determined by the Minister of Justice's individual decision published in the Hungarian Gazette immediately after it has become known. Dear House, At present, the most important objective for all of us is that Hungary should be able to leave the Crown Virus pandemic behind as soon as possible, and therefore the bill on the House's table must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State, as rapporteur, that he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] No. Then I would like to inform you that you will have 15 minutes to speak in the debate and in the closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents his first sentences in his ethnic language, and then continues his speech in Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 4 May 2021, the House Rules of Decision are 44 and 45. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the Protection of the Crown Virus World Health Organisation (T/15997), a detailed debate was held on the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the Protection of the Crown Virus World Health Organisation (T/15997). For the whole of the bill No 1. It concluded that the bill complies with the House Rules of the Decision 44. § (1) and that no amendments were submitted to the bill by its representatives. Since the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, it closed the in-depth discussion and invited the Committee to present its opinion. The bill before us is 1-7. The provisions in force with regard to their content, as set out in Section 2 of this Article, and with regard to additional government powers. However, the entry into force of the proposal on 22 May 2021 goes beyond that, because the extension and maintenance of the special legal order for more than four months introduces restrictions affecting the 13 ethnic communities in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, We also believe that rapid and effective decision-making is necessary to protect the lives and health of citizens, to alleviate economic damage and to preserve jobs. But while maintaining the special legal order, there are a number of problems faced by members, municipalities and institutions of ethnic communities. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to draw attention to the temporary regulatory problems in some areas. One of these is the state of operation of the minority self-government during the period of application of the law. We continue to support the maintenance of the regulation on the entry into force of the dissolution of the bodies of representatives of national self-governments and the transitional provisions for interim elections. CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. Law 46. According to paragraph 4 of Section 4, in an emergency, the responsibility and authority of the national minority self-government is exercised by the President, so it is ensured that the public tasks related to the operation are carried out. However, the additional provision in the paragraph that the President cannot take a position on the restructuring, termination, supply, service areas of the institution raises problems of interpretation and application. The 2011 CXC on national public education. Law 84. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, certain decisions concerning public education institutions providing education and education to persons belonging to nationalities must be obtained before the relevant minority self-government takes its opinion and its right of agreement. Taking into account the time limits: the restructuring decision can therefore be taken by the last working day of May of the year; the application for an operating licence must be submitted by 20 June; the Act 68. According to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the term of office of the head of the institution expires from 1 July to 15 August, so the procedures relating to the new orders also fall under the exceptional legal order. It is clear from the foregoing that emergency legislation makes it impossible for national authorities to exercise their right of opinion in public education matters. Our opinion is shared by the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities, who is at 672-2020. in its Report No 4 and in its Report No 4-2020. In its resolution in principle No. 13, he expressed his views in detail. The other problem which the committee intends to address relates to the state aid granted to national minority organisations. We support the extension of the scope of the provisions that extend the duration of the implementation of their supported projects in force and the related reporting obligation to the same extent as the duration of the emergency. Given that the period of exceptional legal order is expected to be extended until October, it is proposed that the possibility of using State aid already granted for a specific purpose for other public tasks should be granted for consideration. It is, of course, conditional upon the establishment of an appropriate legislative environment. The State provides budgetary support for the performance of the public tasks of local ethnic authorities, the conditions of which are set out in Annex 10 to the Act on Hungary's central budget for 2021. One of the key sources of funding is task-based support, the underlying scores of which are determined by the activities of national authorities in the field of cultural autonomy. On the basis of the proposal before us, this calculation shows that the organisation of the national minority tasks on which the available points are based will be limited in almost nine months of the year, and therefore, as in 2020 we will initiate the establishment of transitional provisions for the payment of next year's grants. Dear Parliament, Our Commission considers that further authorisation under the proposal is essential for the economy to return to the course of development in 2019 and for social life to be re-organised. We continue to call on members of our ethnic communities to take advantage of the choice of available vaccines and to inject themselves. [[17.40]] Citizen's responsibility can greatly contribute to the bill 1. In order to achieve the legal situation laid down in Article 4 of the Act, the Government may terminate the emergency situation before the expiry of the law. Of course, thanks and recognition will continue to come to those working in health care, as well as to those involved in public life and the economy, who have already ensured that the country is functioning and that restrictions are more humane. Our committee calls on the Members of Parliament to support the adoption of the bill in the light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-210	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor from the LMP Group to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-17-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the general debate we exchanged our views for a very long time, we discussed our position, we also said very clearly what I would like to reiterate briefly that, given that you have not lived but abused the extraordinary mandate, the LMP faction will, of course, vote against the new extraordinary mandate. In the winter period, when the opposition factions voted in favour of the extraordinary mandate, one of the first measures of yours was to impose amazing restrictions on the municipalities, and it should be clear that this does not cause direct damage to the municipalities, not to the opposition city leaders, but to the people who live there, because the municipalities are responsible for maintaining the most important public services, and it can be seen that since then, following such consultations, municipalities have not actually received the compensations, they do not receive the resources needed to maintain these very important public services. So neither do I, but I could give you a lot of reasons why you don't deserve another special mandate. At the same time, and this advocate, this extraordinary legal order carries other restrictions, and this has an impact on the operation of any kind of local government, which, in turn, also severely restricts the operation of traditional local authorities, and in this context, we have already considered abuse and serious problems for a long time. As an example, either the mayor of Komló Fideszes or the mayor of Szekszárd Fideszes, who took advantage of the fact that in the extraordinary legal order he could exercise the powers of the board himself, specifically opposed the corporate decisions that the majority of the bodies elected by the people had previously taken, for example, the mayor himself submitted the budget in Szekszárd, or even opposed the corporate decisions regarding development programmes. This is an extremely serious problem, and if we look at the possibility of discussing public affairs on a terrace in the present situation, it is not possible to discuss public affairs at a board meeting, but it has not enabled bodies, municipal bodies, to operate either online. So, actually, I have a question for the Secretary of State as to how and how he sees the government's intentions. They are now asking for a longer term extension, and, by the end of the autumn session, it is clear that we have read in the bill that this may be withdrawn before the Parliament, but there is a prospect that the government will perceive this problem to the extent that it will resolve this situation, solve this anomaly, and give the municipal bodies the opportunity, as soon as possible, to function fully in accordance with the rules of local democracy, and to participate fully in decisions concerning settlements by the municipal representatives elected by the people there. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State, as a question, what prospects there are in this regard within the government, how he sees this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. The time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to turn to the spokesperson, that if there are difficulties in applying the law, that if he is collected and sent to us in writing, then, of course, we will try to help things to move smoothly. My colleague Lóránt László Keresztes mentioned earlier times when it was about the emergency announcement. Indeed, there was a time when the opposition, the left, voted in favour of this kind of emergency, and virtually no anomaly occurred during that period that did not serve the defence. As regards the difficulties of the municipalities, they are nothing greater than the difficulties of the state or government, or sectors such as health, on which the main burden was placed. These are practically the times we live in. The other is that, regardless of the fact that the bodies do not meet, the possibility is practically open to any mayor in the interest of a settlement, for example, in my constituency, it is perfectly harmonious that the mayors consult the members of the body of representatives, although they personally make the decision, but they seek virtually a form of consensus or prior information in these matters. So I'm very confident that with the resolution of the epidemic situation, we can get ahead of ourselves, and sooner or later, the order of natural function will be restored. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate now follows on from the Commission's reports on the transparency of civil society organisations active in public life and the amendment of certain related laws and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15991. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr László Salacz. Mr. Congressman, I give you the floor, please.
u2021-05-17-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the transparency of civil society organisations engaged in activities capable of influencing public life and amending certain related laws, T/1591. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction under Article C-78/18. The Commission v Hungary took a position on the law on the transparency of organisations supported from abroad. The Court held that the Transparency Act was not compatible with the provisions on the free movement of capital and with certain provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union relating to the right to respect for private and family life, the right to the protection of personal data and the right to freedom of association. However, in its judgment, the Court confirmed that, in view of the objectives pursued by them and the means at their disposal, a group of civil society organisations capable of exerting a significant influence on public life and public debate can be distinguished. Ensuring the transparency of the aid granted to these organisations is an overriding reason in the public interest, to which due consideration may be given in relation to the data to be disclosed. Ladies and gentlemen, The present proposal serves to implement the judgment on the basis of its provisions, taking into account them. The bill repeals the Transparency Act and at the same time aims at creating a new regulation in line with EU law. Dear House, The objective remains to ensure the transparency of civil society organisations. It is expected that the management of civil society organisations will be transparent, including for their funding. The bill fully provides the necessary means to do so, subject to the judgment of the Court of Justice. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2021-05-17-216	Thank you very much. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says he's focused on the lock. There will be a time frame of 15 minutes, Mr. Secretary of State, available for you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur as a designated committee. Now it's time for the speaker's speech. I give the floor to Mrs Giricz Vera Ruszin, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality, translates them and then continues his speech in Hungarian. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2021-05-17-217	Честованый пан Предс Честован... парламентар... Честована пан Честованый пан Держсекретаь! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 4 May 2021, the House Rules of Decision are 44 and 45. T/15991 held a detailed debate on the transparency of civil society organisations carrying out activities capable of influencing public life and amending certain related laws. For the whole of the bill No 1. It concluded that the bill as a whole complies with the House Rules of the Decision 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments have been tabled to the bill, and no amendments have been made by our committee. The in-depth debate was closed and I would like to present the opinion on the draft as an invited rapporteur. In our view, the bill is 1-9. The Court of Justice of the European Union C78/18. As set out in the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Case C-307/03 P, ECLI:EU:C:2003:551, paragraph 1. The infringements raised by the European Commission in the action have thus been rectified by limiting the free movement of capital and reducing the rights of freedom of association by means of Article 9 of the draft law. Article 4 of the Act repeals the 2017 LXXVI on the transparency of organisations supported from abroad. Law. Of course, it also serves as the starting point for drawing up further sections of the draft law. It has become prudent to regulate the transparency of aid granted to organisations that have a significant influence on public life and public debate in the public interest. The draft law is 1. §2 of the Act clarifies which civil society organisations are subject to the law: on the one hand, by exempting farmers with a significant amount of at least HUF 20 million and, on the other hand, by exempting them from the organisation defined according to their nature and purpose. Our Commission will continue to support the regulatory principle that Article 1 Pursuant to paragraph 2 (d), the scope of the law does not cover ethnic organisations, ethnic associations, ethnic foundations. The specific legal circle is described and defined in an exact manner by CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. points of the interpretation of the provisions of law. The 13 Hungarian nationalities prefer the adoption of the legal place described above. A civil society organisation acting as a nationality organisation is essential to the electoral process of national governments. The legal entity acting as nominating organisation, established in the register of nationalities, is only involved in shaping political public life within the relevant nationality community. During the municipal cycle, it only transmits messages to those registered as national electors in order to achieve representative democracy. Of course, we support the removal of religious communities from the scope of the law, since certain indigenous ethnic communities, the historical churches, would not have survived without centuries of activity. We also consider it important for sports associations to benefit from exemptions from the provisions in view of their activities. It should be pointed out that the bodies listed above carry out their tasks through self-organization and involving persons carrying out voluntary activities primarily in the public interest. The draft law also delegates a task to the State Audit Office, through which the audit is ensured, and every year we can obtain a guarantee of the situation of the management of the organisation concerned. In view of the entry into force of 21 July 2021, it is important to note that the organisations concerned will have sufficient time to prepare themselves for the implementation of the new regulation and that their obligations in relation to financial reporting only apply to the business year starting after 31 December 2021. Dear House, To sum up, we can say that our committee supports T/15991. a draft law submitted and proposed to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for your attention. Дякуву за призур!
u2021-05-17-218	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We also agree that in 2017, when this law was originally included here, the Parliament's agenda was to make changes in relation to associations, NGOs and foundations. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary in 2017, when this draft law was tabled in Parliament, we also suggested and supported the inclusion of this series of subjects, because we said that we should talk about this, it is a subject that needs to be brought to the House and the problems that have to be discussed. The big problem in this regard was that we did not, after all, support the final vote of the law or refrain from seeing the issue of transparency as very important for civil society organisations, as in many other organisations, the issue of transparency would be very important. However, the bill, which was submitted in 2017, did not in any way serve transparency but served only in very bottlenecks and, in very large part, did not serve this transparency. What were we thinking then? So civil society organisations, which we have seen work, which are capable of influencing public life, were, in the first place, very often close to government NGOs. For example, I would like to mention the CÖF, which was the most spectacular, which basically launched a hate campaign against opposition parties, including Jobbik with public money, our money, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian citizens' tax forints. And what did we see? That the government, or any other public body, tried to prevent us from finding out, for example, who is behind it, where these NGOs are getting the money; and we have seen that they are constantly preventing the transparency of the government party and of the organisations associated with it. Since this is not covered by the 2017 bill and we tabled an amendment in this respect, we did not vote for it, but abstained at the time. [[18.00]] Obviously, we agree now that, on the basis of the court's decision, the legislation with which we could not identify in 2017, so we agree, but we thought that a better bill could have been put on the table. About what we're criticizing? There are obviously parts in it that are better in some respects, which do not distinguish organisations from each other in the same way as before. We consider transparency to be a very important issue, but we do not consider the State Audit Office to be institutionally competent to carry out this state task. Unfortunately, the operation of the State Audit Office in recent years, and I would particularly like to mark the last 10 years, is clear, and it has been observed mostly in the last 5-6 years that, unfortunately, the State Audit Office has been quite strongly involved in the political interests of the government in order to achieve party policy objectives. By this I mean that in relation to opposition parties, he has been engaged in a kind of criminal activity, a kind of criminal activity that has ended with a fine, which has made it clear to us that the objective of achieving government goals and thus the financial impossibility of the functioning of opposition parties is to drive the State Court of Auditors. I am referring, for example, to the imposition of a fine of HUF 770 million against Jobbik Hungary's Movement, which, for a period of virtually 5-6 years, has made it impossible for Jobbik Hungary's Movement to function financially, and obviously also covered the election period, and makes it difficult for us to operate in the election campaign. It is clear that the State Audit Office is not meant to do so, and this is also apparent from the provision of the Fundamental Law that the State Audit Office is responsible for supervising state money. There is also a very big problem that has come to light in fines, the penalty of opposition parties, and that is that there is no remedy against the findings of the State Audit Office, which, in our opinion, is against fundamental law, because according to the Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to appeal. The State Audit Office is the only such organisation whose decisions and findings cannot be brought to justice, so we believe that this is also against the law. Obviously, if there could be a judicial review of his findings, then the situation would be completely different, but not at the moment. In this way, we believe that this law will not serve the real transparency of civil society organisations, which is likely to serve neither the interests of civil society organisations nor the interests of Hungarian society on the basis of the operation of the State Audit Office in the future, if it will function in the same way as it has done in the past 5-10 years. As a result, this change of legislation is a difficult situation, this new legislation is the decision, but we will obviously consider it and form our position on this. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-17-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Member Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw attention to three things here in the debate on the proposal. One of them may have been spoken of in some form by my better fellow Member, or, more specifically, by two. The name of this law is misleading, as it is about civil society organisations, so to speak, capable of influencing public life. A little bit of a difficult situation, since, in general, a civil society organisation is created to influence public life either locally or at national level, because there is something in common between people and they are probably organized to represent this common thing, or to involve as many other people as possible in this common matter, and to convince them of the usefulness of that activity. So the name of the law itself is suitable for a little stigma, and there has been no change in that. So, apparently, the government wants to back out of the former law in such a way that it's as small a loss of face as possible. I think that this is wrong, because civil society organisations must not be branded, even if they are critical of the government at all. And I would also like to add that civil society organisations that have often been subject to this law, or who have created these laws, have previously been critical of the current government. So it is not possible to say that we are talking here about civil society organisations determined by any ideology, because during the previous MSZP governments, the same civil society organisations were critical of the then government or of its actions. So one thing is certain, a constant about their operation, that even when they consider it important, they certainly draw the government's attention to the fact that, in their view, they made wrong or wrong decisions. The other is that the consultation was canceled again. So if we are talking about a civil law, then there is no need for a very great genius to be involved, it is that in such a case it would be expected, especially if this was entered into the Hungarian Parliament after the failure of an earlier law, a new bill that they would then consult with the civil society organisations concerned and ask them how they see what they would suggest, and of course it would be best if these proposals were incorporated into this bill. This did not really happen here, or here, and from one night to the next this draft law was published, and there was no real consultation of content, and there was no significant change for this reason. The third is the question of transparency, and I have indicated that my better fellow Member has already spoken about this. If we are talking about transparency and the relationship between the civil sector, then I think it would be up to the government to spawn in its own home, because there are a lot of civil society organisations linked to government or linked to Fidesz that receive huge amounts of money either from the state itself, i.e. in the form of public money, or from public companies, in the order of up to a hundred million, and it is quite clear that these organisations are essentially engaged in political work or political engagement. One might be the easiest thing to mention at a time like this, it's the C.E.F. This is the movement of the fake civilians, which is actually a political branch of Fidesz, and represents the policy that Fidesz defines for it, and they are apparently filling this organization with huge amounts of money, while its operation is sufficiently opaque, and in many cases it is not very easy to find out which civil society organisations have access to options or resources other than public companies in connection with various sponsorship contracts. So when we talk about transparency, I think that the government is constantly failing when we talk about transparency and we mention state aid or sponsorship. For example, there is a great deal to be fought by journalists in order to obtain some meaningful data from, for example, the propaganda industry led by Antal Rogán, where, by the way, these sponsorships run into each other, since everything has to be approved by this Ministry or by the office under the authority or supervision of the Ministry, so that state firms can pay any kind of sponsorship or support or advertising, even at the smallest amount. So in Hungarian, concentration should theoretically mean that they can provide data on various sponsorship contracts very easily and quickly, while we see that there is exactly the opposite of this, there is no transparency in this system, and even when journalists or representatives are interested in this type of data, they receive data that makes their work most or most difficult to see clearly. [[18.10]] So summa summarum, before the government expects this kind of transparency from civil society organisations, I think it would be worth it if the government itself proved its ability to distribute public money in a transparent way, on the one hand, in a clear, let's say conditional and not through political gifts. On the other hand, when you ask for information about this, it should be clearly and clearly available, easily accessible data, for example, on this wonderful device, such as the Internet, where you can place these contracts, grant amounts, and browse them in a way that everyone likes. So in Hungarian, transparency should start where you expect civil society organisations to start. For this reason, I cannot accept this law, because it is capable of continuing to stigmatise civil society organisations in Hungary, it does not bring any transparency in the lives of certain civil society organisations linked to Fidesz, and on the third part, the involvement of the various State Court of Auditors and other points or authorities makes it possible for these civil society organisations to actually feel threatened in the same way, so that they are not able to operate freely, even without self-censoring. Therefore, for my part, I cannot support this proposal in any way. However, I would call on the government to act, Mr State Secretary, to ensure that government, civil sponsorship contracts are transparent and accessible to all on the basis of two criteria. One is why they give someone support, according to what professional or any other criteria. The other is that when such support is given, it should be clear that it is easily available on the Internet, since public funds are most often involved in these cases. So from here on out, I think it's absolutely legitimate and it's expected to be full, 100% transparency. In fact, even in cases where it is not public money, it is a public company's spending on its own taking, because we are talking about public companies, not chemical operators. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2021-05-17-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State, your time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Csaba Gyüre quoted events in 2017. I recall that there was a campaign of poster hatred at the time, in which the SAO acted: it revealed the confusion of different ownership and rental rights with an unclear background, and in this context imposed a fine on Jobbik under the law. In fact, in view of the parliamentary elections in 2018, the Ministry of Finance also agreed that this had not to be paid in advance of the election campaign, so se-ņ did not influence Jobbik's participation in the elections. As far as his current activities are concerned, and in the current election campaign, I cannot quite interpret Jobbik's election campaign, because I understand that we are talking about a single left-wing Gyurcsány pro-campaign. So this kind of alliteration on this issue, I don't know how it comes up. Attila Mesterházy also mentioned with regard to the law that the Court of Justice of the Union challenged its wording. Indeed, Hungary is not as sovereign as the United States of America, which somehow qualifies foreign agents and agents for the activity of foreign money flows under very close licensing and control. We have to conclude the compromises that the Court of Justice of Luxembourg provides for in this area, and the current regulation is basically a general regulation, so it applies to all civil society organisations which can have a significant influence on public life, hidden political actors have no place in Hungarian public life in the sense that this would not be made public so that it would not be transparent. So that's exactly what the law serves. By the way, the Court of Justice has also agreed, and here in the European Parliament, there have been previous Commission speeches which, in the EU context, wish to require that these actors, who influence decision-makers, are under proper control. Thus, political activity cannot be a decision motivated by foreign states, whether hidden or not, so to speak, in a different direction from the domestic electoral will. Or even if it is, you have to see where it's coming from, for whose sake they speak what they're doing. Of course, this may be a stigmatisation for some or even a persecution; in Hungary, the laws apply equally to everyone. So if it means persecution for someone to comply with the law, I think it's his problem. If you're practically following the law, there's nothing to be afraid of. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to follow up on the consolidated debate on the proposal for a political declaration on the 2021 Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Ministers' Committee of Europe. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee's meeting ended minutes ago. The summary report is still being prepared, and until the summary report is on our website, this will take a minute or two to recess. I'm asking everyone to stay where they are, because it's really only a matter of minutes or seconds. Thank you very much. (Recess: 18.16-18.20) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2021-05-17-225	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats so that we can continue the debate. [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! A joint debate on the proposal for a political statement on the 2021 Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs P/16238. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. In the debate, I shall give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the author of the proposal for a political declaration. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out to the President that the opening speech, his speeches during the debate and the reply are within a total of 20 minutes' time-frame. What you are not using now, Mr President, will be used both in the debate and in the closing. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-226	Mr President, Dear House, Council of Europe Presidency from May to June 2021 It will take place, and in this period the Hungarian Presidency period of the four Visegrád will also take place, which will take place from July this year until the end of June next year. So Hungary will perform two very important Presidency tasks at the same time, which will bring increased international attention to Hungary, but let us not forget that at the same time this also represents an increased room for manoeuvre for Hungarian foreign policy, Hungarian diplomacy. The Council of Europe was established in 1949, one of the most recent European integration organisations in the spirit of strengthening European unity, human rights, minority rights, democracy and the rule of law. This is the main task of the Council of Europe, and Europeans committed to the idea of European unity are monitoring the activities of the Council of Europe with special attention, as is the case with other organisations serving European unity. In addition to the coincidences already mentioned, it is an interesting fact for the Hungarian Presidency to coincide with the debate on the future of the European Union, which began a few days ago, on 8 May, after several months of waiting, and the future of the European Union and of course the future of Europe are not the same. I think it is very important that we can make this clear and see that the future of Europe cannot be dealt with only from the perspective of the European Union. Organisations such as the Council of Europe, where appropriate, have something to add to this debate. I could also say that the wider Europe is also asking for a word in the debate on the future of the European Union. I would point out that the Council of Europe has 47 Member States and has over 800 million citizens. Almost twice the size of the European Union and it is necessary for the debate on the European future to be discussed by the other half of Europe, outside the European Union. Hungary joined the Council of Europe in 1991, just thirty years ago. Hungary has entered the process of European unification through the Council of Europe. I could also say that the European gate, the gateway to Europe, was the Council of Europe for us, and there are a lot of other countries, so that they became first members of the Council of Europe, and then they stepped forward more gradually into closer European integration frameworks. The reunification of Europe has not yet been completed. I think it is important that we consider the Member States of the Council of Europe and all 47 Member States to be potentially members of the European Union. It is therefore also important to think about the relationship and division of labour between the various organisations serving European unity, including the Council of Europe and the European Union, above all, but of course also the OSCE and other organisations for European integration. In this respect, it is a very important issue that the Lisbon Treaty requires the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights, as we know, is a fundamental foundation for the functioning of the Council of Europe, since the European Convention on Human Rights is the basis for the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights. When we are talking about the priorities of the Council of Europe, we must also take into account these features, as provided for in the Lisbon Treaty, where appropriate. I do not wish to return to the budgetary and financial situation of the Council of Europe at this time in particular. In recent years there have been very serious debates, after both Russia and partly Turkey have suspended their payments, but Hungary is one of the most important contributors to the Council of Europe as the home of the European Youth Centre's headquarters in Budapest. That is why I think that the priority that is to deal with future generations is one of the five priorities over the next six months, and it fits very well with the simple fact that the European Youth Centre is in Budapest, which, by the way, will offer room for many events and events. With regard to budgetary expenditure, I would stress that conferences, exhibitions, concerts, so a very complex cultural diplomacy activity will be linked to the Council and V4 presidencies of Hungary, as there will also be opportunities to achieve some synergies here. The future of Hungary and Europe is closely linked, and it is a good opportunity for us to meet the members of the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe institutions during this semester. Hungary fulfilled this Presidency task once in 1999, and we can also use those experiences during our current Presidency. The first priority in the list of Hungarian priorities is the issue of national minorities. The Conventions of the Council of Europe, in particular the Framework Convention on Minorities and the Language Charter, can be considered as pillars of the European minority protection system, but I would like to mention that Parliament's Assembly has taken its part in building this system of minority protection with the adoption of various recommendations. [[18.30]] Several Hungarian MEPs have decorated themselves in recent decades. I would like to mention the name of our colleague Ferenc Kalmár, Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, and at the last assembly, Elvira Kovács adopted a report on the protection of minorities with the name of the very important minority-related report by the Council of Europe. But it is also possible to include the famous cardinal reports on minority protection, such as the 1201 recommendation or the European autonomous report on the name of Andreas Kluth, a recommendation of autonomy, which is a continuous reference to Hungarian national policy, with the focus on supporting the collective rights of minorities and their commitment to autonomy. Unfortunately, the European Union has done quite little in this area, and the feet of the European minority protection system within the European Union are rather bleak and we are experiencing a kind of hostility. Last time we saw this, we saw this about citizens' initiatives. The national minority protection initiative, its childhood name Minority SafePack, and the citizens' initiative on national regions, have also been experienced; it has also been the result of a kind of run-around, which has been the fate of these citizens' initiatives. The report by Elvira Kovács is a good counter model of this, and we trust that in the coming months the reply of the Committee of Ministers will also be delivered in coordination with the Hungarian Ministerial Committee Presidency. I think it is important that those terms of the report are still current, that they are not dead, and that there are standards of minority protection at Council of Europe: ensuring language education from kindergarten to universities or respect for acquired rights. In recent times, we have seen that in our bilateral debates with Ukraine, for example, the role of this Council of Europe system of minority protection has been inevitable; these standards have served as a weapon in the hands of Hungarian diplomacy. I consider it important that, in the spirit of this priority, the Hungarian Ministerial Committee Presidency organises a series of conferences. I hope that this series of conferences can help to outline the future of the aforementioned European minority protection system. Interreligious dialogue as a priority and the challenges of the future as another important priority are no less overlooked. Here we want to focus our attention on the digital transition and cyber protection in relation to the challenges of the future, all the more so because the Budapest Convention, which deals with cyber security, is 20 years old, it bears the name of our capital city, and it is now in a prestigious state to finalise a kind of additional protocol. I hope that this can also be done and that the opening of this additional protocol for signature can begin. As we are witnessing exciting developments in the field of human rights in the field of environmental protection, as climate change is, as a result, increasingly widespread is the view that the right to a healthy human environment can be formulated in the language of human rights, and this can also play a role in the additional protocols to the Human Rights Convention. The current Parliamentary Assembly leadership is strongly committed to this area, and I believe that there is an opportunity for excellent cooperation between the Hungarian Presidency and the Council of Europe in this area. Finally, the political declaration that lies before us reflects a political consensus, and in diplomacy, I consider it particularly important to focus on creating a political consensus. A very important prerequisite for effectiveness is the broadest possible consensus among party political factors. We, 14 representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, have been able to reach this consensus among themselves in recent years, and I trust that the permanent committee meeting to be held in Budapest next week, as well as the Bureau management meeting, will also be held in Budapest next week, as well as the visit of the President and Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly in Budapest will be a good opportunity to demonstrate that there is consensus among Hungarian parliamentary parties on fundamental issues, as regards our Council of Europe priorities. In this way, we can also guarantee or indicate that parliamentary diplomacy is a good addition to the diplomatic interest in Hungary's foreign affairs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-227	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the President of the Commission that he has spent 14 minutes 14 seconds of the 20-minute timeframe, so that the corresponding difference will appear in your further timeframe. I am now asking Mr Péter Sztáray, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray nodds.]] Dear Secretary of State, Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your timeframe is ten minutes long, and the same as that of the President of the Commission, that what you are using now will be the difference between the time used and the ten minutes used in the debate. I give the floor to Secretary Péter Sztáray, please.
u2021-05-17-228	Mr. President. Thank you very much and welcome to this House, I would also like to underline that the Council of Europe was the organisation, one of the most important European organisations to which Hungary first joined from the region 30 years ago. The last 30 years have shown how important this organisation is to us, in general, because of legislation or political negotiations on human rights, and in particular I would like to highlight the norm-setting role of national minorities, which does not need to be explained how fundamental it is from a Hungarian point of view. The Council of Europe, as a pan-European organisation, is, by the way, an important organisation of European dialogue. It is very important that, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, this organisation has started to expand and now has 47 members, which means that political debates, conciliations, legal disputes have become more complicated, but the organisation has retained the pattern and exemplary character that serves as an example for all European countries and allows us to try to develop a unified approach to key human rights and national minority rights issues. From May now, from the second half of the week until November, Hungary will chair the presidency. This means that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister, will represent Hungary in the Committee on Ministers, and this is the other very important ground for the Presidency, and this is the Parliamentary Assembly. It is important to know that the ET Parliamentary Assembly is an extremely important political forum, in which Hungarian MPs have played a very active role for a long time, for three decades. There have been a number of initiatives in this region that have facilitated the enforcement of Hungarian national political interests, and here I would like to thank all the Hungarian Members of Parliament who have played an active role and play a role in ETPKGY. I would particularly like to highlight the person of President Zsolt Németh, who has recently been elected Vice-President of the ET Parliamentary Assembly and also the President of the Political Committee, which means that our influence has been extended to include new elements in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation, and it should also be known that, in addition to the Committee of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly has a very important role to play in a number of cases. In order not to go further, the election of the Secretary-General will ultimately depend on the vote of the Parliamentary Assembly. [[18.40]] On behalf of the government, we have initiated a government decision that will be adopted by 2020. I was accepted by the government on the 3rd of the month X. This is where we established the priorities of the Hungarian ET presidency. As has been said, I am not going to go into details; I would just like to mention one or two elements in a list. So the first and most important is to promote the effective protection of national minorities. This is the area in which we will hold four or four and a half events, two in Strasbourg, two in Budapest. The aim is to adopt a joint statement, whether in a presidential capacity or with several countries, at the end of the Presidency. Indeed, the European Union, the Commission, has dealt with the Minority SafePack. For this reason, we need the Council of Europe to be the Gremium in which we can show that there is indeed a right to impose the rights of national minorities. The second is a priority for the future generation. This is important because youth policy, children's rights and family values are also reflected in the government's programme, but we also want the Council of Europe to pay more attention to this, especially in the epidemic situation, the psychological health of children and young people, I think, is a subject to be highlighted. This also includes social inclusion and the examination of the situation of the Roma. Several ministries will play a very important role in this area, such as the Ministry of Interior, the Minister without a wallet for families, the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here I mention the European Youth Centre in Budapest, with which we also strive to maintain close cooperation during the Presidency. The third, no less important element is interreligious dialogue. Given the problems that intercultural dialogue and its religious dimension in particular are facing these days, not only outside Europe but also primarily in Western Europe, it is considered that it would be worthwhile to put this matter forward in the Council of Europe and give it more focus. So from this point of view, we think that this will be a particularly topical topic. The fourth is the question of the challenges of the future. Here it is primarily cyberspace, cyberspace problems, cybercrime and artificial intelligence that we want to deal with. We will organise several conferences with the active involvement of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Last but not least, the environmental issue, which today appears in practically everything as a horizontal topic. In general, we are extremely active in ET committees. We believe that sustainable development and the right to a healthy environment are equally part of human rights. This is what we want to support, and it is therefore important that the Hungarian Presidency can also give a political emphasis in this context. All these professional programmes will be accompanied by a series of colourful cultural programmes. We hope that the epidemic will allow them to be carried out lively, and we would like to present the results of Hungarian culture through concerts and exhibitions, thus strengthening our interest in the political field. Finally, I would like to point out that on the part of the JRC we would be interested in the adoption of a political statement by the Parliament on this subject. We consider this to be important, since it would express the broad support behind the Hungarian ET Presidency, and of course it would be beneficial if the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament could support this from the broadest possible political spectrum. That concludes, thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have spent 6 minutes 54 seconds of your 10-minute time frame, so the difference remains for speeches in the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a five-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman David Héjj, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/16238, T/16238, was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 17 May 2021, on the Hungarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in 2021. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. By 28 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, On Friday, Hungary's Foreign Minister takes over the office of President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, so we hope that, even if it takes half a year, the Council of Europe can take its rightful place in the Hungarian public. As has been said many times before me from the speakers, we need to be clear that this institution, which is completely independent of the European Union, covers a much larger geographical area, has 47 members from Iceland to Azerbaijan, Portugal to Russia, and has a somewhat longer history, since, as Mr President and State Secretary said, it was founded in 1949. However, beyond the similarity of the name, it has nothing to do with the European Council, which is the most important decision-making body in the European Union. The Council of Europe is perhaps the most effective international forum for the protection of national minorities, where, although the liberal interpretation of the concept of minorities has recently gained ground, this does not crowd out the national, ethnic, linguistic and cultural importance of the minority. The ET has a Parliamentary Assembly, which just now, a month ago, adopted a very forward-looking report on the protection of national minorities, under which the Hungarian MEP Elvira Kovács, in Serbia, brought it. Unfortunately, ET is also different from the EU, where the Commission has turned its back on the 1 million 300 thousand EU citizens who have signed the Minority SafePack proposals. The Hungarian Government, as has already been said before, has set five priorities for this six-month Presidency period: the protection of national minorities, the representation of future generations, support for inter-religious dialogue, addressing future challenges and the question of sustainability and environmental protection. I am convinced that these are goals that we can all agree on, and therefore the hope that the political declaration can count on the support of all parliamentary parties is perhaps not entirely unfounded. Dear House, The goal displayed in the political declaration, i.e. the effective representation and representation of the interests of Hungarians at international level, must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is a 10-ten-minute timeframe for the factions and a total of two minutes for independent representatives. In the course of the debate, the two-minute speeches will, as appropriate, include a time frame, so, fellow Members, your possible speeches should be planned accordingly. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament. The ten-minute window is yours. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am truly honoured to inform this House that the Fidesz parliamentary group and the MEPs of Fidesz support the proposal submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the adoption of a political declaration, and we support everything that was said in President Zsolt Németh's exposé. My fellow Members, allow me to be the first to draw your attention to the fact that, indeed, the stars are very special and positive for the international role of Hungary and as a part of this, for the interests of Hungary, because, as many have already said, I would like to repeat it myself, for six months from the end of May 2021, i.e. until November, Hungary, the Hungarian Government, will be the President of the Council of Europe, while Hungary, the Hungarian Government, will also be the President-in-Office of the cooperation of the V4 and the Visegrád Four, for one year from the beginning of July 2021. [[18.50]] So the successful European cooperation between Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, if you like it, will be decided by Hungary, the leader of the agenda. Allow me to add what seems to be very far from here from May 2021, but Hungary will be the President-in-Office of the European Union again in the second half of 2024. It was as if yesterday was the first semester of 2011 when we faced this task and responsibility for the first time in our membership of the European Union, but this is when people are confronted with how quickly the time passes, no matter how worn-out that wording seems. In the second half of 2024 Hungary will hold this post during a crucial period for the functioning of the European Union, as after the 2024 European Parliament elections, the election of officials, officials and permanent presidents of the Council of Europe, the election of members of the European Commission and the formation of the European Parliament after the elections. It follows that this is already a task, creating an opportunity for Hungary, the Hungarian government. To mention only one tangible fact to my fellow Members: the governing body of the conference series on the future of Europe, already quoted in our debate today, to quote this well-known Hungarian term, in the executive board, member of the Hungarian government, Minister of Justice Judit Varga, as the Hungarian member of the government responsible for European affairs, is already participating as an observer, given that in the second half of 2024 Hungary, the Hungarian government, can again perform its duties as President of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group and of all its Members of the European Parliament, to welcome and support, with the utmost enthusiasm, the one-way agenda definition, the definition of the scope of the distinguished activities, so that the term "priority" is avoided, which is included in the last year's government resolution referred to by the Secretary of State, and which areas of responsibility are also the most important part of the current political declaration. Dear fellow Members, This statement is crucial in two respects. On the one hand, it makes it absolutely clear that some members of the Hungarian Parliament, who will support this political declaration, believe that the issue of minority protection, the issue of inter-religious dialogue and future generations, public debate and discussions on issues that will determine the lives of young people in Europe are important and decisive European values. Not only does the present political declaration support topics, but it also represents an important choice of value, the value choice that I once again say that respect for the situation and rights of national minorities, the improvement of their position, the interreligious dialogue and the representation of questions related to the future generation are important European issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that, not simply what Mr President has said, but that tomorrow's vote will make this political statement a reality, and with full parliamentary support, which we hope can be expressed as a valid hope, we will be able to accept. This is also important because this full political support strengthens the Hungarian representation, which is at the heart of the Hungarian standing and functioning within the Council of Europe, and, of course, the most important aspect represented by Hungarian representatives in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council. Several speakers have referred to the fact that it is a good jubilee, this year it has been 30 years since Hungary joined the Council of Europe as the first institution for European cooperation. I would like to draw your attention to the way I look around the room, the two of us were already here, here with President Zsolt Németh, that this decision was made with full parliamentary agreement, with the support of all the political groups and all the representatives of the 1991 Parliament, if you like it, a precedent decision, a guide for tomorrow's vote as well. All Hungarian MPs can therefore believe that national commitment and building on this, the Hungarian representation is an important issue for all parliamentary parties, all parliamentary factions and all parliamentary representatives. Mr President, Dear House, So I would like to reiterate once again: the Fidesz parliamentary group and its MEPs fully support the political statement on the Parliament's table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-17-234	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to share some points here at the plenary session. We had the opportunity, didn't we, to discuss both the priorities of the Hungarian Presidency and the political declaration within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so I can now be shorter. Basically, what Zsolt Németh said in his speech, I think it was a correct summary of the possibilities of such a Presidency or such a Presidency opportunity for Hungary, and we also thought that these were priorities that could serve Hungarian national interests and the interests of Hungarian people. There have therefore been a number of consultations in this respect, as Zsolt Németh referred to, within the framework of the Hungarian Council delegation for Europe, where the parties agreed and supported this priority line, on which Zsolt Németh and Minister of State have just reported. So this priority really means a set of tasks for the Hungarian government that can contribute to its development in Europe, to the improvement of the situation of Hungarian minorities or to the opportunities of the future generation. So, for my part, I wish, of course, the Hungarian Government in this regard to have a successful year, and these priorities can be achieved by the government as fully as possible, and to achieve successful results with foreign partners. In the other case, which concerns the political declaration, there has been a debate in this regard, although the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported the amendment that was registered on behalf of the MSZP fraction, and thank you for this support, but then this amendment did not go through in the TAB. We thought that some of the changes in the signalling structure, or of the Council of Europe's values, the rule of law, the greater emphasis on respect for human rights, would have benefited from this political declaration. It was in this, I would say once again, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a consensus, but unfortunately, it didn't go through the TAB. Thus, this amendment was so to speak lost and the proposed amendment to the MSZP fraction was not accepted. We believe that what is in the political declaration is, say, 85% acceptable to us, but I maintain my claim that our amendment would have made this political statement easier to accept for opposition parties. [[19.00]] We would have liked it if, before this political statement was presented, it could have been consulted in an informal framework and not within the framework of Parliament, at expert level or at political level on this text, and then we could have avoided such problems. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in this form, so we, for our part, will not be able to support the political declaration so far, regardless of the objective that has been set here before me, we fully agree. [[Continue in 197/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is also worth paying attention to, for many have praised this body, which we call the Council of Europe, but it is worth noting that the reputation and reputation of the Council of Europe has been affected by a number of corruption scandals in recent times. For this reason, it may also be worth paying attention to the fact that this body, this international organisation, is able to return to the path that was set for it when it was established, and that is why Hungary has also joined this body, namely: to support the full fulfilment of minority rights, human rights, freedoms without compromise, or to set the goal of promoting them with its activities. Indeed, there have been a number of scandals in recent years that have shown that this organization has also strayed a little from the path that its founders have set for it, and in some cases human weakness has also marked the operation of this organization. In fact, I do not want to talk any longer because I think that with the comments on the content, as I have just said, we agree. It is right and good that any country in Europe wishes to take part in the debate on the future of Europe, even if the opposition and the party of government in this Parliament think otherwise about the future of Europe or the future of Hungarians in Europe. Nevertheless, the debate can be productive, and the debate can really help build a new European future that gives Hungary good grips or good ground for enforcing its national interests. For our part, we believe that without participation in the European Union, Hungary would have a much worse future; we say that there is life outside Europe, but it is not very good. We therefore support any debate, consultation and government activity that brings the country and this nation closer to these sublime, moral goals. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2021-05-17-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A Presidency is always a great opportunity for a country to present the values that are truly important and show the direction in which a country goes on. We are talking about an international organisation established in 1949 by the London Convention. We are dealing with an organisation of 47 Member States in the Council of Europe, all European countries with the exception of Kosovo, the Vatican and Belarus, and it is important to stress that all EU Member States are members of the Council of Europe. And another addition: although the UK is not a member of the European Union as a result of the Brexit, it is a member of the Council of Europe, so we hope that the active political participation of the British will continue to be decisive in the Council of Europe. This period, the political declaration itself and the priorities that have been formulated, I think are unique. It is worth noting on the Council of Europe that it laid down its rules of procedure in 1951 and Article 6 thereof states that each Member State is free to decide its Presidency priorities. This means that the different presidencies are not linked; this task is not mandatory. The Germans now take over the Council of Europe Presidency, they take over from the Greeks, Hungary takes over on 21 May, and then on 17 November we will hand it over to Italy. It's a six-month rotation system since 1951. I would like to point out that the importance of the Council of Europe is greatly strengthened by the fact that more than 216 Heads of State and Government of 45 countries spoke in the Council of Europe from the end of the 40s. We can be proud of our priorities: protecting the rights of national minorities, interreligious dialogue, challenges for the future such as artificial intelligence, cybercrime, future generation, protection of children's rights, protection of family values and the right to a healthy environment. It is also important to emphasise that we have talked a lot about the issue of Minority SafePack here in Parliament in recent times. I think it is important to emphasise this because international organisations generally compete with each other, and indeed the European Union has been greatly undermined when the European Commission rejected Minority SafePack. Why is this important for the Council of Europe? Because, from an international legal point of view, the Council of Europe has the two most important minority protection agreements: the protection of the rights of national minorities and the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, and our Hungarian Presidency can also carry a very important political message by ensuring that, despite the rejection of the Minority SafePack, the protection of the rights of national minorities remains an important priority for us, and we would like this message to be heard by the European Union itself and the European Commission. I therefore consider it important that we support this political statement, which reflects the values that we want to represent during our Presidency. I would also like to congratulate my colleague Zsolt Németh. It is a very big thing that he became Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly and represents our country and domestic values as Presidents of the Political and Democracy Committee, because each position shows that we can have a voice during the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe. As a member of the delegation, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, we will do everything we can to ensure that these priorities, which we can rightly be proud of, are enforced. Let me get one more thing up here. Although the European Convention on Human Rights contains the fundamental right to freedom of religion, it is Article 9 but the Council of Europe itself has neglected this issue in an unfair manner in recent years, and we therefore consider it very important to raise the issue of interreligious dialogue. In 2007, the Council of Europe last dealt with this in the form of an intercultural dialogue. Here, for example, we are proud to present Hungary Helps and what the Hungarian government has done to help persecuted Christians in the Middle East, African territories and other countries. Thank you very much for your attention, and it is important, please, to support the political statement. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-237	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-238	Dear House, I think that this agenda is not suitable for heated domestic political battles, and I did not intend to, so I would like to ask you to consider my comments, perhaps a little more critical than before, as a meaningful contribution to the subject. First of all, I would like to say that I think that there is agreement between us that the Council of Europe is an important joint institution that may have its own role, let us say, in this international relations system and at all in the cooperation system that characterizes Europe. I would not agree to the debate that we have just heard, that the Council of Europe is good now, the European Union is bad, or vice versa, I think that both institutions have a very important role to play. [[19.10]] I have to say that, of course, it is worth watching the matter itself, while there is a special charm that the Hungarian Government in the Council of Europe will play a decisive role, a leading role in the coming period, which does not play a very commendable role in the observance of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is quite combative against the recommendation of the Commissioners of the Council of Europe, which is pleased to disregard the judgments of the Court of Human Rights and which is not particularly committed to human rights. You've just witnessed this today, but I'm going to tell you that in a moment. I must say that it is an opportunity in itself, and I also think, with a kind of pedagogical optimism, that it will certainly benefit the Hungarian government as well as my fellow Members, if they may hear other opinions, such as, let us say, what was accepted in the Hungarian Parliament on these issues, because interreligious dialogue does not mean that we are defending only Christianity and otherwise not the other religions. Indeed, interreligious dialogue is also about how to strike a balance between different world views and different religious beliefs. At the same time, I cannot go without saying a word, Mr Mesterházy, with his usual diplomatic subtlety, said with extreme caution, and I will not do this, what happened today in the Legislative Committee, because there is one thing that is included in the resolution proposal and should not be included: this is the praise of your foreign policy. They are talking about welcoming the Parliament, including the opposition, as we are here seeking consensus on the active international engagement of the government. What? Are you friends with Russia and Turkey, they are considered a model, they serve the interests of those who, by the way, are constantly being criticised by the Council of Europe, and which, to put it mildly, are extremely hostile to the Council of Europe? Is China considered to be a great ally and an example of a daily demonstration of human rights violations? Is that what we should welcome here in the debate on the Council of Europe? And what is missing? What is it you do not want to see in this document? Because it was hidden in the explanatory statement, and when my fellow Members suggested that it be included in the text, they did not vote for it. I tell you: the Parliament is committed to the development and promotion of the Council of Europe and its declared objectives, in particular democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Now, that is what you do not want to see in this document: democracy, human rights and the development of the rule of law! There must be no misunderstanding: the goals that you are talking about are important, but there are other goals that are not important to you. I must say, after all, that, of course, we cannot support a proposal for a decision for the purpose of fidesz self-certification, which is not a consensus, but rather, on the contrary. We understand you don't want to cooperate on this either, we understand. We promise, after 2022, when we have a majority, it will be different, and we will also seek consensus on these issues. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-17-239	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-17-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a very strange position now that we have heard quite solemn speeches here, and here before me is a very strong, critical speech from Gergely Arató, and indeed, from Congressman Mesterházy, a criticism wrapped in a subtle diplomatic speech as an intermediate solution. I must say that I can identify with virtually every speech, I can agree, and I think that there was also a place for all the speeches that we have heard here. In short, referring back to what we have heard here in the short term, I think that there is indeed full agreement that the Council of Europe is an extremely important institution, and it is very, very important that we use all the institutions, all the forums, to represent our own national interests, and that together we can fight challenges that stand before us or before us, before Hungarians and before Europe as a whole. I agree with President Zsolt Németh that we really need to debate the future of Europe, debate and a very frank, open debate, because with this, I think, we have remained in debt over the past decades, and that is a place for all European states, states that are not members of the European Union. Of course, we too obviously have a strong, very firm opinion that Hungary has a place in the European Union, and I hope that there is consensus in this, by the way, between the parties of the Hungarian Parliament, but it is clear that there are a lot of problems with the functioning of the European Union. It can be seen that this structure, as the European Union now operates, is not really suitable for real, relatively fast and effective action against the most important challenges. So, overall, I think that the Council of Europe as a forum is very important in the debate on the future of Europe. I agree with Mr Mesterházy that, before such a very, very important event, in the case of such a document, a consensus should have actually been sought. I think it would have been an important message if you could have accepted this with one voice with the participation of the Hungarian Parliament, the ruling parties and the opposition parties. I think that it would have helped that, if there had indeed been a substantive preliminary consultation, which could have prevented it from really, as my fellow Member said, being dependent on signalling structures to be able to support this document by consensus or not. So in this way I can agree with the more critical Members who have spoken before me, and I think that there is indeed a legitimate criticism here, in terms of the procedure, of this, I think that it should have been adopted and that there really should have been a consensus here. I say this with the fact that, as far as I know, I can say that the LMP fraction will be able to support this proposal, because we fully agree with the objectives set here as a priority. Personally, I also agree that, in European politics, it is very important to have a common fight in the first line or as a first point in order to protect the rights of national minorities and thus to pursue the Hungarian national policy goals and the strong and joint fight for Hungarians from abroad. So, by the way, this has been said by several of my fellow Members that we are facing enormous challenges here at European level to protect the rights of indigenous minorities, but obviously it is most important for us to represent the interests of Hungarians abroad. We can see that we have been forced to experience shocking developments here, even in the past year and symbolic year, in the year of national cohesion. We have also experienced quite astonishing and shocking outbursts against Hungarians, and we can see here, especially with regard to the serious problems affecting Transcarpathian Hungarians, that unfortunately we are often not equipped, and the minimum is to express our stand very firmly, and we are using instruments, say, in connection with NATO, which are still available in order to ensure the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia. So this is a very, very important issue, and indeed, it is an important forum of the Council of Europe, an important field for enforcing national policy considerations. Yes, I believe that, in this situation, it is particularly important to confront the European Commission with its shameful, not so long-experienced behaviour and, in general, the institutions of the European Union and the European Commission, or to say that the European political elite does not really show sufficient interest in protecting the rights of indigenous minorities, and does not wish to address this issue, despite the fact that we believe that these issues are linked to very, very important European values. So it is absolutely important that we be able to talk about this here as our number one priority. Questions related to future generations. Obviously, we totally agree that we need to talk about this. I also agree that interreligious dialogue is an important issue that, say, is decisive for Europe. So it is indeed a matter of fate that, for now, we can get to the point of opening an honest debate on this issue, and if we could do so because I myself have been on the Committee of the Regions of the European Union for a short period of three years, I have experienced that the European public speech, the European political elite, cannot really do anything with this issue yet, we really need to get to the point of having an open and honest debate that reveals the essence. And then perhaps we can also move towards finding real solutions on an extremely important issue that has, indeed, become a very, very serious social problem in Western Europe, and it is obviously in everyone's interest, all citizens of the European Union, regardless of the extent to which this problem is present in each country. So with regard to the challenges of the future, I think we also agree. Obviously, on sustainability and environmental issues, the importance of the case is once again the subject of a consensus, and I am pleased that, if I am increasingly hearing the rhetoric of the ruling parties, they agree that this is a very, very important issue, perhaps the most important challenge of our time. Obviously, if we go into its depth here, we will find more questions that we do not agree with regarding solutions. But there are certain challenges that we need to work together on. If I mention just one thing, the issue of final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste in the use of nuclear technology is a huge problem in many European countries. [[19.20]] So there is also a need to channel thinking into common forums in order to find effective solutions to these issues and, in comparison with our present knowledge, let us say, better solutions. But what I can say is that we can agree with these key words, ideas, priorities. I am saying that I see that the LMP fraction will also support this political statement. However, I would also like to say briefly that I agree with the critical tone, and even if not in the debate of such a proposal for a resolution, but we will always say that we find it quite astonishing and shocking that the Hungarian Government, given all the principles previously represented at the level of rhetoric, goes against the Hungarian national interests many times and serves without bone either the Russian or the Chinese great authority interests, and can, in a rather shocking way, make shocking decisions, even in an epidemiological situation, on which I have said many times here, and I will even say that it seriously violates Hungarian national interests. So what we cannot in any way do in this regard is welcome the government's foreign policy. What we can do is to agree with the objectives listed here and mentioned above, and also to agree that this will be a very important period and an important forum in order to be able to act jointly and effectively for those goals, on which I hope there is consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-241	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask President Zsolt Németh, as rapporteur, to answer the debate... [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform the President that you have five minutes and 46 seconds. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-242	Mr President, Very briefly. Mr Gergely Arató has dropped out of line here during the hearing, but this should not discourage us, because basically I see that we can have a meaningful dialogue on issues that are necessary if we think about Hungarian foreign policy, then let us continue a meaningful dialogue. I do not wish to mention in detail the provocative accusations that Hungary would disregard the judgments of the Human Rights Court. It's not real. We are cooperating with the Court of Human Rights and we are able to deliver very serious results, so the implementation of court judgments has improved in the last few years, and we will continue to do so in the future. The fact that we are not committed to respecting human rights does not correspond to reality. However, as far as the preliminary consultation is concerned, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we presented the proposal for a resolution to the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the intention of reaching a consensus there, and I put the text to the vote in the belief that there were no amendments to the text. So I thought there was a consensus here on this text. These few sentences are not about evaluating the performance of Hungarian diplomacy. But at the same time, to demonstrate that we had the intention to cooperate, this was also clear in the debate on the amendment proposal. However, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that when the reasons for the amending proposal say that these amendments are necessary because Hungary is the last among the countries in the region, both on the basis of indicators showing the quality of democracy and the effectiveness of individual freedoms, and on the basis of the quality of the rule of law, it is not surprising that some of my fellow Members considered this a provocative justification, and the position of the TAB, the final position of the TAB, is due to this. So we will seek consensus after 2022 in the formulation of Gergely Arató. I think it will be difficult to reach consensus on this path. I would like to take note of this from my fellow Members. But I'm not giving up either. So as there is a pedagogical optimism in Gergely Arató, I also have a pedagogical optimism about how it makes sense to agree foreign policy goals and try to develop them, to find consensus in these international challenges, and to progress with the support of this consensus. That is why I am pleased that several opposition groups have already expressed their clear support, and I hope that by tomorrow morning, when the vote is to take place, the number of these factions will continue to increase, because I sincerely believe that it is important to have a broad consensus on such qualified tasks of Hungarian foreign policy as a Council Presidency of Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15985. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-244	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15985 Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 22 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us aims at transforming the Foundation, which also operates the House of Terror Museum, into a public-interest trust fund with a public service mission, by providing it with assets. The stated objectives of the Foundation are considered by this bill to be of public interest. The proposal also allows that if the Foundation performs its public function through a higher education institution named in the proposal, it should be possible, in addition to the Foundation, for this higher education institution to join and leave any single state purchasing system on a voluntary basis, with a unilateral declaration. Dear House, The adoption of the proposal would make the activities of one of the most important think tanks in Hungary possible in the long term, and would guarantee that one of the most successful, national sovereignty and conservative institutions in the global culture struggle should not become the subject of daily political struggles, as unfortunately has been done several times in the period 2002-2010. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-05-17-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Schanda Tamás János, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Tamás János Schanda: In the end, thank you.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go. [[19.30]]
u2021-05-17-246	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs über die Stiftung zur Erforschung von Geschichte und Gesellschaft in Mittleres und Östliche Europa mit Nr. 15.985, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15985. on the Bill on the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society! Using the available option, our Commission has submitted its own amendment intention T/15985/3. I have already predicted this in my speech during the general debate on the bill on 28 April 2021. Allow me to quote briefly from the National Creed of the Fundamental Law. We declare that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. We undertake to cultivate and preserve our heritage, our unique language, our Hungarian culture, the language and culture of Hungarian nationalities, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Of course, we wanted to change the T/15985 Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society, taking into account ethnic aspects. We wanted to include in the bill the public tasks of the public-service trust fund in historical, cultural and social research on indigenous nationalities, referred to in the Fundamental Law, as well as the integration of research results into the teaching materials used in public education. According to the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate, it is proposed to amend Annex IX of 2021 on public-interest trust foundations for public interest purposes. The following would have been added to row 34 of the table set out in Annex A to Law No 1 of Annex A: The ethnic communities of Hungary XX. The research of the history of the century, the social situation, the exploration of the characteristics of the communities, the examination of the coexistence and relations of the individual ethnic communities with each other and with the majority society, the demographic, economic, political, and cultural situation of the ethnic communities in Hungary, as well as their political activity. At our meeting, the representative of the Minister for Innovation and Technology said that the rapporteur did not support our committee's intention to amend it. The reason for this was that, due to the shortness of time, we did not have the opportunity and opportunity to discuss our amendment with the professional wallet in a specific way. However, after the meeting and the submission, it was possible to reach a concrete and detailed agreement with the representatives of the Ministry on our intention to amend it. As a result of the professional consultation, the Legislative Committee held a meeting on 13 May 2021 with 15985/7. In accordance with point 6 (4) of the Amending Proposal No 6 of the Act, after the adoption of the Act, Section IX of 2021 on public-service trust foundations would be included. In the table set out in Annex 1 (A) to Act No 1 the new Annex 6a is replaced by the following: Point 1 for indigenous nationalities is added as follows: History, political and social research in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe, in particular communism, dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe XX. Exploring and presenting the history of the century, researching and analysing the facts of Hungarian and Central and Eastern European history, politics and society, including the history of indigenous nationalities living in the region. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This amendment, which was version B of our original proposal, was also unanimously agreed by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. The amending proposal specifically defines the task of the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society to explore the history of indigenous nationalities, which are inseparable from the history of Hungarians, according to the Fundamental Law. On this basis, this House is entitled to consult Mr T/15985. our committee supports the adoption of a bill on the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. No prior notice of opposition has been made in writing. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will comment very briefly on this proposal. I can tell you that there are a lot of motions before the Parliament where we can agree with the stated objectives described in the explanatory statement or in the text, but if we look at what is behind them or just what method the government uses or the government thinks is good for their implementation, then the agreement is no longer in place and we cannot support it with our vote. We have had very, very many debates and long-term debates on the outsourcing of public assets to so-called public-interest trust foundations, and this is where the conversion into such a foundation is specifically included in the motion. I, myself, have not yet seen the distribution of assets, but I believe that, on the basis of the practices of the last few weeks, we can say that, at least with a very strong lack of confidence, we look at the intentions behind the motion and the subsequent steps. However, I would like to say that we are seeing a lot of contradictions here with regard to the vote behaviour of the motion and the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. If you look at the listed objectives of the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society, then here, right, research, various research tasks are given priority, and it says here that Communism and Central and Eastern European dictatorships are XX. Continue to carry out public tasks related to the exploration and presentation of the history of the century. I think that we can all agree that this is a very, very important goal, but I think that it is infinitely cynical to put it this way in any way on the part of the government after 23 times our bill on the discovery of agent files has been voted down, and 23 times it has been made impossible to oppose the way in which the former state security maintainers have tangled the regime change parties in this period of regime change, and what processes have started that not only define the past, but also the Hungarian economic life, let us say, social processes to this day. That was an infinitely cynical attitude. I believe that in such a motion, when you refer to such a purpose, which is very, very important and important to us, you must and will be confronted with the fact that, on the other hand, your voting behaviour is infinitely hypocritical. Overall, I can say that the LMP fraction will not be able to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-249	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the given time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2021-05-17-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to say just a few sentences at the end of the debate on this important bill. On the one hand, I would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this bill not only in the current period but also in the previous period, and, on the other hand, allow me to highlight Mr Ritter's proposal and thank you for the comments that you have made, as we have been able to further increase the usefulness and quality of the bill. [[19.40]] Finally, Mr President, allow me to say that it is indeed an important bill of greater importance than itself, which further strengthens one of the most important intellectual knowledge bases and spiritual workshops in Hungary, and I therefore ask all the political groups of Parliament to support the adoption of this bill by voting in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-251	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/16000. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/16000 on the amendment of law and certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 11 votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains a number of amendments to legislation. I just want to say a few things as soon as possible. The amendment of the Act on National Higher Education creates consistency between the health and educational relationships of the instructor in a medical service in the clinical centre. Strengthening the competitiveness of higher education institutions is a priority objective, which in future will be an important supporter of science and innovation parks that can strengthen university-industrial cooperation and the use of university knowledge in business environments. The proposal provides for the possibility for R &amp; D and innovation entrepreneurship to be carried out by institutional companies. Based on the experience of recent years, the proposal makes the admission process electronic throughout the IT training area, and it will be possible for IT training professionals to continue their studies without admission procedures, for example, for those who need it for the purposes of deepening knowledge or for appointment in a given job as a manager. Dear House, The amendment of the Social Insurance Pensions Act is of a technical nature which is mainly precise on the basis of the application of the law. Among other things, it makes pension-related procedures tax-free and ensures that the work rehabilitation fee and the development employment fee will only have to be taken into account in the calculation of pensions in the future if it results in a higher amount of pension. The amendment to the law on compulsory health insurance will also allow ged to be granted to parents who continue their studies at day care, while their children will be placed in an institution providing day care. The amendment increases the ceiling of the monthly childcare fee for equity, from 70 per cent of the minimum wage to 70 per cent of the twice the minimum wage. The proposal also makes it more flexible to regulate the revision of the maximum amount of ged, the minimum wage for students, the guaranteed minimum wage, so that it can be applied in the case of an interim adjustment of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Dear Parliament, An important change in the amendment of the Family Support Act is that long-term ill or severely disabled adult persons entitled to higher family allowances under their own law can work without any action restrictions from 1 July this year, while maintaining the family allowance. The proposal also clarifies the provisions of the family allowance and of the schooling allowance, in line with the restructuring of the vocational training system. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Taking advantage of the opportunity to be here, Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask a short question, in many respects, the bill concerns higher education. Previously, there were very, very serious and fierce promises here that Hungarian higher education will have an opportunity to develop at historical level by promising that your boss, Minister Palkovics, will receive a HUF 1500 billion development resource from the European Union in January. Now, this 1500 billion has been negotiated or cut to 1,200 billion, and two days after the vote on outsourcing to the so-called model change, Minister Gergely Gulyás announced quite simply that he is not coming from the EU or not from such a scale - a development resource. This morning, the government's recovery plan became known, and if we look at it, it can be seen that, in particular, the development goals of higher education, as I calculated, total HUF 119 billion are coming. So we see three hundred and a few billion-dollar frameworks, from laboratory construction we also see vocational training lines, but specifically your 1500 billion-dollar promise reduced to HUF 119 billion. We remember how much debate we have had here with the Secretary of State in the last few weeks, and we have obviously argued that it is also unfounded that the effective spending of development resources has to do with the maintenance change, obviously this was a wholly unrealistic statement, but the fact that, as a main reason, you define this huge development opportunity, this huge EU development resource, which will not arrive, I believe that you have lied to the actors of higher education in Hungary, deceived Hungarian universities, and thus introduced them into the political outsourcing of the model change, with no development resources anywhere, or at least only a fraction of it coming. On the other hand, and this is somewhat linked to the budgetary debate, if we look at the lines in next year's budget, then we can see that next year's draft budget has fallen tremendously in the ranks of higher education, as compared to this year. And if we consider that most of the outsourced universities, especially the rural universities, have not received wealth elements that could in any way establish their maintenance, which in themselves could be revenue-generating assets, then we can say that you will in fact suffer brutal restrictions instead of promised development on the universities that are now outsourced on a political basis. My question to Mr Secretary of State is why they are not giving Hungarian higher education the promised EU development resources. If you do not think that this needs to be ensured in the recovery plan of the European Union, why not replace it with the central budget? What is the reason why higher education has fallen so drastically in the draft budget? What can Hungarian universities expect? Where do they get the resources to ensure their operation? We see that these universities are specifically condemned to liquidation, and they are forced to sell assets which, by the way, were not so long ago subject to public wealth if they want to survive, if they want to operate. This process has been incredibly false. Obviously, that didn't surprise us, because we can see right through you, and we can see that all the lies that were behind the change of model in higher education were actually lies. I think that it does not belong to me, Mr. Secretary of State, but to those university leaders and, in general, Hungarian people and young Hungarians, what they can say after this, that they will virtually withdraw funds from Hungarian universities after such a brutal political outsourcing. I would add that we also had a lot of discussions on this issue, and I think that we will be having longer debates soon, but with you outsourced almost all Hungarian higher education, you have put under political control, the EU development resources you promised will not arrive, the money for Hungarian higher education will be reduced in the budget, and you wish to spend an amazing amount of Hungarian taxpayers' money on building the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest. So you will spend significantly more on building the Budapest campus of the University of Fudan than on funding full Hungarian higher education throughout a year. Dear Secretary of State, Who gave you the authority to do that? What makes you think you're authorized to do that? And I think that, once again, the government does not belong to me through the Secretary of State, but to the Hungarian public and to the young Hungarian people; and we can say that in many respects, especially to young people living in the countryside, who expected to acquire the knowledge within the interests of Hungarian higher education that they will be equipped with in the labour market, including, where appropriate, in disadvantaged rural areas. Thank you very much in advance, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. [[19.50]]
u2021-05-17-255	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to speak on the agenda, using the time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-17-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fact is that I have an easy job to do, because the purpose of the bill has been presented in detail by MEP Ádám Héjj, and it would be unnecessary to repeat that. At the same time, I think it is not related to the very subject of the bill, and indeed, we have had the opportunity, in the past few weeks, to discuss issues relating to higher education, but it would not be appropriate and it would not be right for us to leave in the air the countless slippings and half-information that Mr. Group leader has expressed here on the bill, although not on the bill, but on other issues. On the one hand, I would like to reassure Mr President of the Group once again; I have tried this on several occasions, but unfortunately my words remain in the air, and Mr Group Leader does not accept them as an answer and repeats these false questions over and over again. I would also like to reassure Mr Group leader and everyone who is concerned with this issue that the Hungarian Government is committed to the development of Hungarian higher education, and the development programmes of a magnitude of HUF 1000 billion that the Hungarian higher education institutions have formulated will also be implemented, honourable Member, regardless of how this will be financed; I believe that this is a secondary issue. The problem before was why we want to make these improvements at the expense of the RRF, and now the problem is that we do not want to make these improvements at the expense of it. We are going to do these things, these are important matters, but, Congressman, please decide on the left that the problem is whether we are implementing them from EU funds or not. It's time to make that decision, because I'm always called on for something else every week, both for you and for me, I think it's just going to allow me to have a rather unworthy dialogue. The other thing I would like to draw attention to, and we have discussed this several times, Mr Group Leader, is that there is indeed a link between the operating model of a higher education institution and the effectiveness of spending development resources. We believe that the need for Hungarian universities, through their senates, to the government and to the Hungarian Parliament, is reasonable, that they want to express their responses to the challenges of the next period in a different model, in a freer model of operation, with more financial autonomy, with greater financial autonomy, with greater operational autonomy, with greater organisational autonomy. And it is indeed appropriate to make such a change of model at the time and before, before I want to use big words for a significant, long decades, but even if these institutions are making improvements that go forward for a century, otherwise it is appropriate to create a more effective structure that actually makes this possible. Mr President, the truth is that you have put all kinds of sentences here in relation to the Senates of Hungarian universities. I would like to draw your attention once again to what I have done more than once, to the fact that I do not think that it is appropriate to question the opinion of professors, workers, university teachers in the Senates of universities, to question their credibility, and to suggest that they can do something without their will. I don't think it's worthy of these great people. If you think I'd be happy to read to you the members of the Senate of the University of Pécs at any time and tell you who you think can be influenced by who you don't think is a serious enough person, because I think it's unworthy of you, too, and by the way, such accusations by the entire left are completely unworthy of this. These are serious people who have made a serious decision, some who have supported, some who have not supported the change of model, and a significant majority of those who have acknowledged that this is the future of their institution, and that is why they have asked for and supported the change of model process. And my last sentences, Mr. Head of the Group, relate to who and how he stood to finance Hungarian higher education. We have already put significant extra amounts into Hungarian higher education, and the possibilities of financing Hungarian higher education will continue to increase significantly, as opposed to the fact that you are working every day to bring back that left hand, bringing back the Gyurcsány coalition... [[László László the Crusade is shaking his head.]] You can laugh at it, Congressman, but that's what you're doing, which is why you're working, which is why you're taking your salary, which is why you're talking to these bill proposals, because you want the Gyurcsány government to come back to you. We've replaced it, you've indebted it, you've introduced tuition fees, and by the way, you've even made it worse for the institutions. Mr. Congressman, it is quite unworthy that you would then want to make such accusations against us, while they were your allies, who destroyed Hungarian higher education, indebted it and put it in a difficult financial situation, and we are doing the opposite. I would just like to say one sentence about Fudan, because we will have the opportunity to argue about it, honourable Member, in the next period, but I think it is very unprofessional and unusual for you to want to confront operational and development costs. This was a completely unprofessional, completely incomprehensible and even a far below the average level of the left. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-257	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the regulation of covered bonds and other legislative amendments to the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15973. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendments to the legislation on covered bonds and other legislative amendments to the financial intermediary system for the purposes of harmonisation. A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 30 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the legislation on mortgage credit institutions is essentially justified by the transposition into national law of Directive 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the issuance of covered bonds and public oversight of covered bonds and amending Directives 2009/65/EC and 2014/59/EU. The package of proposals includes a set of rules on covered bonds aimed at promoting the use of covered bonds as a stable and cost-effective source of financing for credit institutions and thereby promoting lending. [[20.00]] In Hungary, only mortgage bonds are covered bonds issued exclusively by specialised credit institutions and mortgage credit institutions on mortgage credit institutions and mortgage bonds in 1997. by law. The package of proposals also includes provisions to ensure the implementation of the EU regulation on European Community financing as a new form of mediation. As part of the implementation of the Capital Markets Union, the rules on cross-border marketing of investment funds have also been simplified and, in addition to the directive aimed at it, the removal of obstacles arising from diverging interpretations by Member States through regulation. The proposals to transpose the provisions of the Directive reduce the cost of cross-border activities and promote a more integrated EU market for investment funds. Dear House, With the adoption of the proposal, the target system and mandate of the Hungarian National Bank can be expanded by supporting environmental sustainability in order to support sustainable development and green money. In addition to harmonisation obligations, the proposal also includes amendments to the transformation of the vocational training system in order to ensure that professional qualifications standards can be coherent. On this basis, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State as rapporteur at this stage or at a later stage of the debate... [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place within the given timeframe. I ask my fellow Members, someone wishes to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Gábor Gion. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-17-260	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Congressman Heyy took away most of my work here in the closing speech, because he presented very precisely the content of the legislative package, so I would not repeat that, but I would like to thank you for the support we received from Parliament and the Members. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the establishment and operation of the data base for the identification of financial and other service providers and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15996. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-262	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the establishment and operation of the data base for the identification of financial and other service providers T/15996. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, By creating this regulation, Hungary fulfils its obligation to harmonise EU legislation by ensuring that the EU Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive published on 19 June 2018 are transposed into domestic law, as well as the provision on the establishment and operation of the bank account and safe register required by the Member States. With the establishment of central registers, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. It demonstrates its continued commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also a requirement for the competent authorities to have access to information on the beneficial owner without limitation in all cases by the competent authorities, by the investigating authorities, by the prosecutor's office and by the court and by the financial information units. The access of obliged service providers shall be provided in order to ensure that the customer due diligence is carried out by them. For any member of the population, access to data relating to the name, year and month of birth of the beneficial owner, the name of the country of residence and the nationality of the beneficial owner and the nature and extent of the actual ownership interest is required to be a minimum. In the case of a trust management relationship, access to actual ownership information is subject to proof of legitimate interest. Dear House, Modern regulation and effective enforcement will continue to serve to make it difficult and, if possible, to prevent the laundering of the returns of economic crimes for criminals and to make it more difficult to finance the activities of criminal circles, thus protecting our financial system and society more strongly than ever, and therefore the proposal should be supported. And I apologize to the Secretary of State if I once again described the contents of the proposal in too much detail. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak at this stage or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No one came forward to speak in writing. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Therefore, there is now room for further speeches by its representatives. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-17-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I have nothing to do but to thank Mr Héjj for the very professional presentation of the law and to thank all the factions, because he has given support to all the factions of our bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on amendments to the legislation necessary for simplification of certain official procedures and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15699. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2021-05-17-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendments to the law necessary for the simplification of certain administrative procedures T/1569. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In addition to the requirement of the authenticity and accuracy of registers, it is also necessary to ensure that data exchanges between registers are carried out smoothly, in line with the technological development of today, as well-functioning interoperability accelerates administration, reduces administrative burdens on citizens and improves the efficiency of public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, During the further development and renewal of the professional systems of the NAVÁS, i.e. the national data wealth registers, the management licence and vehicle registration systems have undergone complete IT renewal, which will allow the launch of a number of transport and administrative matters by electronic means. Also in the spirit of renewal, in view of the limited number of notifications from the personal data and address register, notification addresses will be removed from the register as of 1 July 2021, which will no longer be possible for citizens to report. [[20.10]] The issue of a driving licence as of 1 February 2021 is also an additional facilitation for citizens. However, in order to enable the client to verify how the certificate is issued, the Registry will be obliged to provide an independent service, so that everyone will be able to verify that the necessary conditions are met. The establishment of an automatic administrative decision-making system should also be highlighted, so that, if the decision is to be made, the administrative steps between the initiation and the closure of the case are carried out without human intervention, automated by means of which the General Administrative Regulation Act 40. The automatic decision-making procedure laid down in Section 2 of this Article shall be carried out. Thanks to the video technology-based identification service, a regulation will be put in place to allow the recording of the facial image and signature from a distance in procedures in which the client's declaration can be submitted personally or can only be submitted, as this would significantly reduce the number of personal contacts, which, for example, is very appropriate in view of the current epidemic situation. The proposal submitted also provides for the inclusion of the nationality name in the private passport in order to make national identity even more complete. Dear House, The bill will be able to create a legislative environment that, while ensuring a more accurate and efficient procedure for public authorities, will reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens in the future. Therefore, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Speaker, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-268	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené panie poslankyne the Panic Poslanc! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom actuálnom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/15699 o modifikácii zákonov potrebných k zjednodušeniu niektorých úradných postupov. Výbor predložený návrh prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí trinásteho apríla. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed in detail the amendments to the law necessary for the simplification of certain official procedures T/1569. Bill No. 1. In my speech, I will present to you your position on the draft legislation at this committee's meeting. As always, the Committee discussed in detail the changes in the draft that directly affect the ethnic communities. The Public Education Act, the Vocational Education Act, the Higher Education Act and the proposals for amendments to the civil status Act do not contain any new provisions which, in their capacity, directly affect the rights and enforcement of nationalities. The law on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities has highlighted the rights of national minorities at all times. We have also examined the proposed amendment that has just been tabled in this respect. The proposal clarifies the legal background for the implementation of the law, while it seeks to clarify the detailed descriptions of the content of local equal opportunities plans, which do not require legislation, by issuing a methodological guide. The nationality committee agrees with this intention. Any change in the rules of public employment is important to us primarily because of the large number of Roma members who are involved in public employment. Start social cooperatives, which can be operated since 2019, play an important role in the employment of Roma as another step towards employment. The Commission's position on the change proposal is that we agree with the initiative, especially in the light of previous requests and proposals from Start social cooperatives. The current proposal coincides with the need for many of them to allow the legislator to expand the opportunities of Start social cooperatives, which are also primarily employing Roma. Access to central grants will help them to continue the employment of public workers. However, it is also an important element that these subsidies contribute to the wages of the public workers, thereby contributing to the sustainability of the activities of the Start cooperatives. Dear House, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 16. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the nationality person has the right to use his/her name under the rules of his/her mother tongue, his/her formal recognition and his/her name in the nationality language appearing in the register on the identity card or in another official card. Hungary joined the first two European minority protection documents in the 1990s, which, in addition to the need to secure other national minority rights, also included the commitment to ensure the use of nationality names. The Committee of Experts to monitor the implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages shall also examine the implementation of this commitment every three years. However, representatives of nationalities living in our country have for many years initiated to include their nationality names on all personal documents that can be used for identity identification both at home and abroad. In particular, the passport was intended to be used as a primary means of identification in the home country of each community. This includes the fact that, at the beginning of the year, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary re-initiated the expansion of the possibility of using nationality names in the Ministry of the Interior. At that meeting, we agreed that this need could be achieved by reviewing the internal content of the passport. Now, in the relevant section of the package of amendments before us, we welcome the opportunity to include in the passport the names of people belonging to nationality in their mother tongue on request. We consider it an important step and welcome the fact that one of our proposals raised at this meeting seems feasible in such a short period of time. To sum up, therefore, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary does not submit a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, but proposes the adoption of the bill. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-17-269	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-17-270	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We also said during the general debate that we are talking about a salad law, obviously a very extensive amendment, it amends a lot of laws, and we agree with a significant majority of the amendments. There are specific amendments that are very kind to us, as you said, Mr Speaker, the indication of the nationality name in the passports, the possibility of this, I think, is a very positive step. At the same time, and I do not wish to repeat it again in relation to the general debate, but there are some elements of the bill that we cannot support. Obviously, this is the downside of a very extensive, very wide-ranging salad law that, despite having a lot of positive, forward-looking elements in it, there is always an element in it that unfortunately cannot be supported by our vote. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing: the words "red tape reduction" in the explanatory statement or what Congressman Dávid Héjj said that building an effective public administration, I think it would not be right for you to use it when you currently have 72 State Secretarys, 122 Deputy State Secretarys, 69 Ministerial Commissioners and 22 Government Commissioners on the job. I think that as long as they operate such an extensive state apparatus, a government apparatus, and it costs so much to Hungarian people, there is no reason for you to talk about bureaucracy reduction or effective administration or government administration. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-271	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héyj, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-272	I do not want to repeat, we have already had the debate in the general debate, but I think that in the bill I understand what you are saying, but I think and we have already said it in the context of the general debate on NAVIS, the point is that we want people to have to go as little as possible, to deal with as many matters from home as possible. I think, my fellow Member, that this is a reduction in bureaucracy even if you do not like it. This is also a reduction in bureaucracy. I understand your point, but this is a bureaucracy reduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.20]]
u2021-05-17-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, who wishes to answer and address his representative. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-17-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the bill contributes to improving the efficiency of public services and to the functioning of the customer-centred service state. In the general debate, in principle, there, but also on the opposition side, there were doubts about the bill, in particular referring to the fact that the bill had been amended in a number of directions. At the same time, if we go through this one by one, it is clear that these proposals are clarifications and important adjustments that really contribute to reducing bureaucracy on the one hand. And here, by cutting red tape, the citizen can clearly feel that the administration will be simpler; he may feel that, for example, issuing a licence will be more reasonable and faster, because if he has passed the test, he can drive the vehicle immediately, because the available data systems make it possible. There were various excuses or question marks about the data. In its opinion at that time, the opposition spoke about new data collection, although it became quite clear, we made it clear, and it is clear from the bill that we are not collecting any new data, we are not getting any new data. It is precisely the points that we have built in so that what is already at the disposal of the State can and should apply it rationally, in addition to the appropriate security procedures. I think, however, that it must be said that the criticism of the bill itself is fundamentally political and used in the political attack of the government rather than in the actual and objective debate of the bill. I therefore thank you for the support that my fellow Members, and here, in principle, my fellow members of the Government, have for this proposal. The norm is improved because in some places there are linguistic or legal inaccuracies, but by amending them the bill becomes clear. The fact that the amendment will ensure that not only the investigating authority but also the preparatory body is entitled to know the tax identification mark if it is necessary to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings, I think that this is a clarification that was necessary when the legislative package was presented. Overall, the proposal makes the handling of official matters simpler in a number of areas and makes the procedure faster and cheaper in many areas. That is why I thank my fellow Members, who supported the bill, and I ask that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-275	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, László Pósán, János Fidesz, János Halász, Fidesz, Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz, T/15982. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-276	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage Legislative amendment No 15982. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 2 against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill we are discussing now is to ensure that the ownership of permanent public documents acquired by individuals is settled and that they are maintained for posterity. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the ownership of public documents is clearly recorded. In the public documents created before 1957, it starts by assuming the ownership of the holder, and the opposite is to be demonstrated, while in the public documents created after 1957, the private owner must prove legitimate ownership. The Hungarian National Archives, as an authority, prepares a certified electronic copy and keeps a register of privately-owned documents of lasting value, which, by virtue of the power of the law, are considered protected. After the adoption of this Act, the State shall be entitled to the right of pre-emption in the case of the sale of privately owned public documents. Dear House, It is important to note that Article III of 2003 on the exploration of the secret service activities of the past system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services The public documents subject to the law shall not be disposed of. This was the object of an amendment and amendment of the Legislative Committee, i.e. the documents covered by this Act can legally only be held by the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Thus, if the public documents covered by the ÁBTL Act are otherwise held, that holder cannot be regarded as the owner on the basis of the presumption. Another amendment by the Legislative Committee concerns fines and their size. The amount of the fine that may be imposed in the event of failure to notify the public documents may range from HUF 10 000 to HUF 250 million. Ladies and gentlemen, We think that because in many cases we are talking about priceless documents and public documents that are owned by the Hungarian state, it is very justified and it is also justified in the case of a fine of up to HUF 250 million. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill in the final debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-277	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you if someone on your representative's side would like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on behalf of the government, Secretary Maruzsa wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-278	Mr President, Dear House, During the Second World War and the 1956 Revolution, a significant amount of public documents were acquired by private individuals for various reasons. Understandably, today's owners feel that they own these documents and do not want to give them up. In the event of the adoption of the proposal, public documents created before 1957 and legally owned by private companies will become marketable, with the obligation to report this to the Hungarian National Archives at the time of the change of owner. Permanent documents shall be registered by the archives and made a certified electronic copy thereof. The authentic electronic copy will thus be the property of the State, ensuring that the contents of the durable public document are known. In view of this, as a civil historian, I consider the bill to be supported on behalf of the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking you, someone wants to live with this. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak for the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor says no.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the Government. I'll ask Congresswoman, on behalf of the authors... [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go. [[20.30]]
u2021-05-17-280	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, On behalf of the authors, I thank you for the positive attitude with which the Legislative Committee and other committees have contributed to the final form of this bill in recent debates. I thank the Legislative Committee for its amendments that made it more perfect. As I said, we support these. The goal we have set for ourselves is to find the hidden treasures, the public documents that may so far be on the black market, perhaps lying at home, in the attic, in the cellar, and to make them the treasure of the state, and also to support research. Thank you again, on behalf of the rapporteurs, for all the forms of the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-281	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act and Act CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, on Cultural Strategy Institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural-related laws. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/15988. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-282	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, LXVI of 1995 on the protection of private archives. Act and Act CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, on Cultural Strategy Institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural-related laws. The legislative proposal amending the Act aims to create a legal basis for the wider application of the integrated legislative system. Through the development of the integrated legislative system, the legal background of which is to be established by this bill, the entire course of life of the documents resulting from the legislative preparation process, from their creation to their registration, to the transmission of them to the publication of the Hungarian Gazette, and finally to the transfer to the Hungarian National Archives, can be achieved within this specialized system. This system will effectively support the legislative process in line with today's expectations. I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-283	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to make use of it. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak, as there has not been a debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain public education laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/15708. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-17-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15708 on the amendment of certain laws concerning public education. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Public Education Act and the related other laws was reflected in the decision of the Constitutional Court to initiate the obligation to teach. At the same time, it also contains a number of regulatory elements to ensure that the system of public education functions more effectively, bearing in mind the intention of the legislator. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the proposal provides for clarification of the procedures for starting schooling and pre-schooling, allowing the guardianship authority to initiate a deferment of the schooling obligation at the Education Office if it were justified and the parent would not have acted on the matter. The procedural deadlines will be shortened if the law is adopted. In exceptionally justified cases, a new application will allow for a deferment of the pre-school start until 31 August of the year in which the child reaches the age of five. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court when it provides for the retention of targeted occupations aimed at achieving the intellectual, physical, mental and social maturity necessary for the start of the school obligation for children of 6 years of age with special educational needs and integration, learning and difficulty in conduct, but for another year of education, to be carried out by these children in addition to the improvements made in the opinion of the expert committee, i.e. by improving the organisation of the guarantee system, the intensity and effectiveness of development in kindergarten education. Dear House, In order to reduce the burden on families with diabetes type 1 children, the bill allows children with this type of disease to take part, for example, in the daycare of children with preschool or elementary school age, in a preschool or in a school until the age of 14. Involvement of the staff involved in the task will take place on a voluntary basis, after prior training and in return for additional benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, An important element of the proposal is that it will also be possible for apprentices to participate in vocational education or training by means of a dual training contract, and dual training will also be possible in vocational schools. The proposal also includes the establishment of rules to support the functioning of hospital education and the strengthening of teacher training, even closer cooperation between public education and higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the bill before us will contribute to making compulsory schooling and preschooling procedures even more effective through the new guarantee elements, reducing the burden on families, broadening the rights of children and students and, overall, making the system of public education even more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-285	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-17-286	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Parliament, A few weeks ago, when I presented to you the main elements of the proposed amendments in the context of the general debate as an opening point for the negotiation of this bill, even the representatives on the opposition side acknowledged the merits and correctness of the proposals. Some have said that they agree with 90 percent of the bill. [[20.40]] As you will recall, as part of the proposal to amend certain laws concerning public education, the Government has supplemented the procedure with guarantee elements in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on the procedure for pre-school and compulsory education. Thus, it is stated in the regulations that, in justified cases, if the parent does not act on the case, even though this would be necessary, the child protection authority may also initiate a deferral of the obligation to attend to the Education Office. In addition, a significant reduction in the procedural deadlines also met the requirement that a final decision be taken before the start of the education year or the school year if the parent initiates legal proceedings against the decision taken. It was also included in the bill so that, in exceptional cases justified, a new application would allow for a stay in kindergarten until 31 August of the year in which the child reaches the age of five. Following the submission of the bill, the Constitutional Court stated that it considered it necessary to include an additional guarantee element in order to ensure that children with special needs who remain in kindergarten education for one year will surely receive the additional development in kindergarten education that will give them the chance to fulfil their schooling obligation in an integrated education of a traditional course. The Government has incorporated in the bill a proposal for a solution proposed by the Constitutional Court to ensure the conditions for participation in school education by improving the intensity and effectiveness of development in pre-school education. With this addition, we believe that it is appropriate to ensure that children leaving preschool can participate effectively in school education in an integrated form. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned earlier, the amendment proposal contains, in addition to the procedures for starting or deferring pre-school obligations, a number of other regulatory elements to ensure that the system of public education functions more effectively. I have already spoken in detail about these issues in the opening speech to the general debate on the bill, and I would now just like to highlight two other issues, which are exemplary in the international context and greatly in the interests of children and families. I consider it to be such a element that in the future kindergartens and schools will participate in the day care of children with type 1 diabetes by 14 years of age, thus removing significant burdens on the shoulders of the families and parents concerned. It is important to point out that the solution developed is safe and beneficial for all stakeholders, as the participating school workers can join this activity after adequate training and in return for additional benefits. There was also general agreement on the establishment of a new legal framework for the public education of children and pupils who are undergoing long-term treatment from all speakers regardless of party standing, which makes the operation of so-called hospital pedagogy more effective, thus supporting the students involved in continuing their studies. Dear Parliament, The recent amendments to the law aim to improve the effectiveness of public education, to increase the participation of children in personalised education and to further reduce the burden on families who are educating them. I believe that the fact that there has been no substantive criticism of the proposal in the course of the Commission negotiations proves the justification, the professionality and the appropriateness of these amendments. Accordingly, I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-287	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2021-05-17-288	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené panie poslankyne the Panic Poslanc! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/15708 o modifikácii niektorých zákonov súvisiacich s verejným školstvom. Výbor predložený návrh prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí trinásteho apríla. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Secretary of State, In my speech, I would like to introduce you to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, T/15708. Opinion on the proposal for a law amending certain laws relating to public education. The nationality committee shall adopt the provisions of Article 10/2014 concerning certain house rules. OGY Decision 32. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, he conducted a detailed debate on the bill. From a ethnic point of view, it can be said that public education is a key area for the survival, language and culture of nationalities. In recent years, the Committee on Nationalities has, in many cases, initiated changes to the legislative framework in order to ensure that the operational possibilities of nationality public education are stable and transparent. This has also made it possible to maintain local and national minority self-government institutions in recent years. None of the amendments we are discussing now contain provisions directly related to nationality public education that would affect ethnic communities in their capacity. A significant part of the proposed amendments to the Public Education Act is text-pointing and the transfer of changes to the specific legislation on vocational training. These have been reviewed and no comments have been made on them. In several places, the draft clarifies certain aspects of the kindergarten relationship. These changes, imposed by life, affect the financing of kindergartens for children of long-term parents abroad, including in a proportionate number of ethnic parents, or preschool admissions and take-over obligations. We agree with the clarification nature of these provisions and their purpose. Following previous discussions on the rules of procedure relating to the initiation of compulsory education and the experience gained in recent years, the rapporteur also proposes amendments to the legislation in force. The extension of the range of originators to parents as well as to the child protection authority and the shortening of the deadline will help to facilitate cooperation between the relevant actors in this segment of public education. The draft sets out new tasks for the Education Office in several cases. In addition to textbook development, the teacher's qualification expert has selected the registration of one expert day per week, or the registration of data related to foreign preschool obligations and school obligations. Let us hope that the Education Office will also be able to perform these new tasks in a reassuring manner. Dear House, The Committee did not comment on the amendments submitted to the bill nor did it intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Commission's amendment closing a detailed discussion was not submitted. At the same time, we propose adopting the draft law. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-17-289	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, They now have the opportunity to speak if they want to make use of it. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: No.]] Debate has not really developed, and Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15974. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in a total time frame of 60 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-290	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 12 May 2021, the Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the Legislative Committee, discussed the 2020 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. Bill No. 1. [[20.50]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 10 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. The purpose of the bill submitted is that, due to the Covid-19 epidemic, at the time of the announced emergency, the government created several government regulations affecting the budget for this year. Hopefully, with the continued increase in grafting, the fight against the coronal virus will succeed and the emergency will be lifted. The proposal for a budget law before us is precisely aimed at the inclusion in the budget law of the regulations which the government intends to maintain over the past period, since, with the end of the emergency, these regulations will cease to apply. The most important point of the summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee is that Magyar Development Bank Zrt. increase its involvement in re-launching the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, together with the summary amendment proposal, a bill will be put on the table in this House which will ensure the sustainability of the budget for 2021 and will help to restart Hungary as soon as possible. That is why I consider it important, and I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-291	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minority opinions will now be presented in a total of 30 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-17-292	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am also obliged to draw attention to the fact that the budgetary amendment that you have tabled is unacceptable in itself and that we will give our minority opinion in this debate to a woman representing the division of labour. Just because, in the past period, the debate on this budget was not only strange, because there was a very strong difference between the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, but also because, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we had several times initiated a meeting that could prepare for the adoption or understanding of this amendment, since the year 2020 was a special year, as we all know and understand it, because there was a special situation with the governance in the context of an emergency, and it is special in the way the government managed it. Although I am afraid that the word "special" may sound too positive in relation to the performance they have produced in this respect. It would have been necessary to provide a general overview of the situation in 2020 alone in 2021, as a result of the opportunities offered by the European Union, and therefore, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, we initiated this together with opposition representatives but rejected it. Then, by the way, allow me to add a miracle to this agenda, today it was the European Affairs Committee, which discussed our previous topic. Thus, overall, we are obliged to express our minority opinion, on the basis of which, I can safely say, this amendment of the law would not only have created opportunities and improved the fact that the government's management and budget would have become more transparent, the exact opposite is true: the Parliament was not given a real decision, a control option, but even the right to information was essentially negated. The payment appropriations for budgetary revenue, expenditure and deficit presented by the government do not correspond to the amounts actually expected and projected by the government itself, so the prognosis itself was only brought to the attention of the Fiscal Council, I might say, after its call. For this reason, as a second such statement, I can safely say, as we have put it as a minority opinion, the Stability Act has become a need for instability, since the suspension of the Stability Act during an emergency, without the inclusion of brakes, which the government and the Prime Minister have carried out under their own authority, so that the law is re-enforced by the political truth, the Ministry of Finance has taken over the intentions of politics. If this situation had been used only to prevent an emergency and to reduce it, I would say that there is something to talk about, although, based on the experience of the past period, we know that you have abused it, and last year, the start of 2021, we can safely say that this abuse has passed. In addition, from a budgetary point of view, the government seems to have achieved below 80% of the public debt-to-GDP ratio by using tricky methods, and in the 2021 budget, in the amending proposal, the GDP register is presented in several numbers. For this reason too, I say that the bill lacks realistic past analysis, the regionally weak performance of last year's period is not presented. I would also like to highlight further elements and explain why this budget in this form is unacceptable. And it doesn't help much that the investment rate in the European Union is very high, which the government has been focusing on, but we know that, in the meantime, it has let people down, that the possibility of keeping workers in the workplace has not been helped, and that is why they are trying to run ahead, standing on people's back, trying to build on it. It is infinitely annoying that they are doing this by building and continuing prestigious investments, essentially serving the construction investments of ownership groups loyal to you, the government, and this has nothing to do with talking about the budget for crisis management. So, overall, I continue to assume that the budgetary processes which the government otherwise largely conceals, have become almost completely opaque during the period of the Fidesz government. The Parliament's audit role has essentially been terminated, and the method that has worked for you, i.e. that you have accepted, is to ensure the publication of and through these night government resolutions. They were not willing to amend it during this period of 2021; even during such a period, when, I think, it would have been justified to have a much wider information, Mr Secretary of State, because when I mentioned that this decision was practically withdrawn from Parliament, this method was used in this period. They will continue the practice of adopting annual budgets in the spring. [[21.00]] I think they're building it all on the same sand, because they're not accounted for by 2020, 2021 is being amended right now, but they have enthusiastically presented 2022, which, in this respect, comes to the same fate, because it keeps it in the same uncertainty, or rather, I say, deliberately concealing the real processes from Parliament. Interestingly, nominal GDP expected for 2021 is not the same as in the various reports, as in the proposal amending the budget for 2021 there are HUF 51 617 billion, while in the other place there are HUF 51 348 billion. In principle, it is very strange that the two key reports on the Hungarian economy at the same time include different figures. I think they're doing this because, in fact, they're trying to trick public debt into bringing it down to 80%, although it's not possible, and they can't solve it. This is not only important to you from a PR point of view, I see that you can say this below 80%, but I think that, compared to 80,4 percent in 2020, it was never such a public debt as this that you are trying to make politically at least acceptable to you. In addition, if we consider that the general government debt of 2021 against the EUR 365 at the end of 2020 amounts to EUR 360,9 or 1 percent, which in this respect reduces the value of the government debt in HUF, it becomes apparent that the real reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio with your method is almost impossible. But since it is an election year, it seems that you have been ordered to prove the debt-to-GDP ratio of below 80 per cent, and you want to comply with it, and that is so, even if you are really looking forward to or expect to increase compared to the particularly weak forint. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) According to the revised budget forecast for 2021, the cash flow deficit of the central subsystem is then HUF 3990 billion. According to the European methodology, it is similar to 7.5 percent, but it is likely to be more than that. If we do this in line with previous figures or previous calculations, then this is much higher, Mr Secretary of State, so on this basis I think that the public debt-to-GDP ratio of 2021 will not be reduced in this way. Perhaps I would like to add one more thought, which we said earlier, and as I mentioned here in my introduction: forced investment. According to the general justification for the amendment proposal, the Hungarian investment rate was the second largest in the European Union last year, it is significantly above the Visegrád countries, but it was at the expense of the people, and in this way it seems they intend to continue. In view of all of this, there is no economic justification for the government's announcement at the moment that Hungary does not yet request any euros of the Restoration Fund, as they do not really need it, but it seems more important for you to want to finance it with the more expensive currency loan, because then you have to account for it differently and try to take this escape route into account in this respect. On the whole, therefore, our opinion, which is unfortunately left in the minority, shows that the budgetary amendment that you have produced cannot be supported in this way, because it does not help families or people. Here it is clear in black and white that you are not using the vast amount of resources that you are planning to make a huge deficit for this year in order to prevent an emergency, but instead, as I said, you are continuing to force the unjustified spending at the end of last year, which, as I said, had nothing to do with what the emergency would otherwise have justified. So on this basis, we will not support this amendment, which you have tabled. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2021-05-17-293	Thank you very much. Good evening. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, may continue. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is no dispute between us that the budget of 2021 needs to be amended, and in the spirit of fairness, I would also add that the Hungarian government is not responsible for the world's liberation from the pandemic and its economic and social effects. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, you have a historical responsibility for not wanting this responsibility, which was in the pandemic, to share it with either the opposition members or the stakeholders when they redesigned the budget for 2021. It could have turned out differently, I think, not only in the next two or three years, but also in the medium and perhaps the long term, if you understood the same responsibility that our fellow Europeans, where the government and the opposition held hands and together sought the right answers to the challenges in both budgetary and social and health terms; you have shut yourself down. What shows this more than the fact that the Committee on Budgets has passed for the past five months and I am very sorry that I no longer see our fellow Member Attila Tilki here in the pro-government benches, who represented the majority opinion from the committee, that we have received those letters from you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, that they do not wish to ensure the quorum of the committee when experts such as the Minister of Industry and Trade serving in a conservative value world, the former President of the Central Bank, and people who sought the answer to the existing challenges, otherwise only with the members of the opposition, such as the Minister of Finance serving during the social democratic-liberal governments. They, my honourable pro-government colleagues, are not connected by any institution, but we are connected by the Parliament and are connected by the Committee on Budgets or linked together. Allow me to quote one of the experts who, in this way, became a regular guest of this Committee on the Budget, not a three- but bilateral round table, because it succeeded bilaterally, without the parties of government. He drew up a graph showing the budget deficit leap we saw in December 2020 and said that he wanted to ask you that in these days, when this data came to light, how many times you met before Christmas, because this would have been extremely important for the future of our country. Well, then, Mr President smiled and said that he had tried several times, but unfortunately, quite a lot of times, we received a letter from Vice-President Lajos Szűcs that they did not want to participate in this debate, because it is only the hystericalisation of the left. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative amendment before us contains substantial information on the main figures, from which we can see that the government intends to re-mand the disease management in its own hands, which, by the way, will not be done differently than last year, and from then on, it will be your 100% responsibility. [[21.10]] But allow me to highlight the details of some of the main issues that I am concerned about. They were here last year before the committee, which means they were going to go, mayors of county-righted cities, and they wanted to share with the ruling majority what they needed in the pandemic. I ask you, who knows better than to know how much it costs to sterilize a street furniture, or how much it costs to sterilize an entire public area than a mayor. I'm asking you, who do the first call for help phones and the letters of emergency that are the cry for help of the victims of the economic and social crisis coming from the pandemic? Well, it's the mayors, fellow Members. By the way, they would have been able to, if they had an adequate funding framework, contrary to what the government had done to them, to keep their incomes withdrawn over the past year; they would have been the ones who could, for example, have provided the social benefit system under increasing pressure with additional resources at local level. These are the opportunities that not only the mayors, the mayors are not so interesting in this sense. It was the local communities, because every wave has a human face, every single crisis has a human face, the same way that every single death has a human face and every lost job or broken business has a human face. We have not asked for more, my fellow members of the Government, in the last five months, just to listen to the people involved and to listen to the words of the opposition, in the form, where appropriate, of the amendments that we would otherwise have liked to relieve the pressure on the social care system, with which we wanted to at least settle the bill to social workers, to the paramedics, we wanted to give them additional benefits. You didn't listen to any of this. I ask, for example, how has a survey been carried out of whether the budget for new homeless care was sufficient for day and night care, because we know that the number of homeless people is constantly increasing, more and more women, more and more older people, and this entails additional tasks for care systems. I cannot decide, and I very much hope that the right answer for Mr Secretary of State is whether our supply system will be able to cope with the number of new people in need, whether this budget can support the number of new homeless people. I'm aware that we're farming from new numbers. But, Mr Secretary of State, I also have to say that at this time last year, when we planned the budget and asked you to wait at least for the summer break and see what numbers the global crisis confronts us with, which are those external shocks that are still ringing into the Hungarian national economy, you have swept these arguments all the way down. They said that the budget for 2021 could be accepted in the form you saw fit in the spring of 2020. I now think that this amending proposal before us could have been much better, that it would have been better if the members of the Government understood that, once again, we have shared responsibility in how our country is getting out of this crisis and not only in a health and social sense, but also in an economic and social sense. I don't think we've been able to understand the opposition. The municipalities are still extremely underfunded, and if I have just addressed the Secretary of State, I have to say this because we are discussing a Commission report that I have received a correct professional reply from the Secretary of State to my question of asking the county-righted cities and the municipality of Szentendre whether they would like to spend that budget grant of HUF 961 per head on public education tasks in view of the epidemic. I then argued to the Secretary of State before the committee that I think it would have been better not to give it strapped to it, and I thank the Secretary of State for his reply that this is an addition to a wage increase and a wage increase from the central budget. So, Mr State Secretary, I see good intentions at certain points, in the new draft budget and in the legislative amendment proposal before us. In its two-thirds representatives, I did not see the intention of listening to anyone, and they would like to deviate in any way from the path that... once again, the advantage of democracy over dictatorship is that the common good is decided in debates. When can we decide the common good better than when we decide on our common money, taxpayers' money? When can we decide better about the common good than when we talk about the main figures and details of the central budget? I mentioned another subject that caught my eye, and we see quite detailed figures in this, too, because allow me to include this material with the criticism that we cannot see behind a lot of major numbers. So in this way, we see a budget of some kind of secrecy, a kind of budget that still leaves a number of decisions in the hands of the Secretary of State or the Ministry of Finance, without the Parliament or the committee being able to control these processes. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think you should be sitting here alone or sitting almost alone, of course, on behalf of the government. I think it would be very nice if at least the members of the Committee on Budgets were here and I could tell them the arguments that they wouldn't listen to normally, but maybe if they heard it a lot, they would start something at all. For example, the idea of seeing a change in frame numbers in nursery care here. We know that during the plague, the cradle was in an extremely difficult situation. We also know from Eurostat data that at the moment 80,000 people are not working because we do not have enough nursery space in our country. I know, the Secretary of State used to argue that this government has created a lot of cradle seats. However, it cannot be forgotten that foundational and private cradles have made an extraordinary contribution to creating new seats. They were the ones who got into trouble in the first round of the epidemic, they were the ones who shook the alarm bell, they said that now they had to share babysitting time, they were still daycare aunts for four hours, and after that they were babysitters, said a lot of those daycare workers who shared with the public what problems they had because of the change in their funding framework. I believe that the primary ground for exiting the crisis is to restore the health of our labour market. This cannot be achieved without ensuring the dynamic reintegration of young mothers into the labour market. With such kindergarten care, which has become so unparalleled lately, I cannot imagine it. I would not go into more detail because of the shortness of time, but I have to say that everything I have said is happening despite the fact that a number of legislative amendments to the opposition have been made to the 2021 budget. This has happened primarily because, to date, we are not sure that the success of the economic protection action plan is worth celebrating at all. I'm sure the pleasure was premature, Mr. Secretary of State. I am also sure that at least some of the opponents should have been included in a series of subjects, and should have come before the House, so that we can discuss not only with the public, but also with the two thirds, that we are not sure at all that the epidemic management and the crisis management that Fidesz and KDNP set out was a good way. So, in times of crisis, it is quite simply irresponsible to behave. I think that these measures will not only affect our next year, not just our coming months, because it seems that we are discussing what will happen to us by December this year in the debates of the 2021 budget amendment. But I think that we are living a life-changing month, we are going to live a life-changing year next year, and I think that not only on an economic and social, but also on a political level, and I hope that next year we will be able to rejoice in a much more responsible and compromised government in May. All I can say now is that it would be good if, in the next period, at least the budget amendments of 22 could be accepted in whole or in part. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[21.20]]
u2021-05-17-295	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai if he would like to speak now. [[Péter Banai Benő: Thank you very much, no.]] No. In this case, there will be speeches by Members. Speaker Varga Simeon can take the floor as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As an invited spokesperson and Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Government, Foreign Affairs and Budget of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow the XC of 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. I would like to reiterate our position with regard to bill No 1. At its meeting on 4 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held a detailed debate on the 2020 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. for the whole of the bill No 1-22, i.e. 1-22. §2 and Annexes 1 to 9. Our committee did not take a position on the proposal to amend the bill, it did not intend to make any further amendments, so the committee did not submit a proposal for a detailed debate and adopted the report on the detailed debate with 13 unanimous votes. I would like to point out that we continue to welcome the process of increasing support from Hungary's central budget for 11 years to national authorities and public education and cultural institutions operating in their maintenance. This ensures that nationalities living in Hungary maintain their national identity, mother tongue, faith and culture, and pass it on to future generations. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, nationalities in Hungary have become beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation this year as well. We hope that the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament will continue to support the resources submitted by nationalities in the future. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-297	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, if you wish to speak, you may now. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-298	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank you for all the contributions that have been made, either in the general debate or in the committees or now in connection with the amendment of the budget law 2021. I always say that these debates give us the opportunity to clarify the purpose of the government when it presented this proposal to the Parliament. We had a dual goal: to provide, on the one hand, all the resources needed to protect against the epidemic and, more and more, to restart the economy, and, on the other hand, to provide a formal framework for government decisions taken during an emergency to be included in the budgetary law. With regard to this second amendment, let me immediately highlight an important point that was already mentioned: the situation of the municipalities. The compensation of municipalities with a population of less than 25,000 has already been decided by the government in a regulation. I think it is important that the compensation of these municipalities should also appear in the legislative amendment. With this, if I may, I would like to turn to the comments made by Mr László Varju and Mrs Anett Bősz, since Mr László Varju has objected to transparency in the budget proposal, he said that there was no possibility of information, that the government is concealing certain data. I would like to note that on the items on the agenda approved by the Committee on Budgets, the representation of the Government was constantly secure, and that, if you look at the minutes, I and my colleagues have tried to answer all the questions. I did not receive a written question from Mr President aimed at concealing information about the proposal for a budget law submitted. If that is so, I would ask Mr President to indicate specifically what information we have not provided to the Parliamentary commission. I think that if someone looks at this more than 80-page document, it will reveal the measures that the government has implemented so far, and what are the measures for which we are asking for Parliament's decision. No secrets at all. There are summary tables. It is clearly apparent that the main goal, the recovery of the economy, can be achieved with the availability of more than HUF 6,000 billion in total, and, of course, we have shown in detail what expected deficit figures will be. So I think that it was possible to relate not only to the original budget, but also to the figures expected this year. President László Varju mentioned the amendment to the Stability Act. I would like to make it clear that the government has made an amendment under its authority that this year the deficit-to-GDP ratio may be above 3 per cent. Of course, Parliament will have to say the final word about this; Parliament will have a way of discussing this amendment to the Stability Act, and if it believes that it is appropriate to support it, it can support it. However, I would like to point out that there are currently two out of the 27 EU Member States, based on their own forecasts, which calculate a deficit of less than 3 per cent, with a much greater deficit for everyone. The Hungarian deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 7.5 percent is not outstanding at all. I mentioned a number of countries from the southern Mediterranean countries through Germany, France, at committee meetings and here in plenary, where we can see a significant shortage. And this brings us to the next point, because the deficit is obviously closely linked to public debt, a larger deficit implies greater public debt, and it is therefore essential that, in contrast to the overall trend of the European Union, if the Parliament accepts the government's proposal, then we calculate that the debt-to-GDP ratio may be reduced. I also draw the attention of President László Varju and the Honourable Parliament to the fact that we are counting only one GDP number in the Budget Act. When we talk about sovereign debt and debt according to EU methodology, we only count one number. So I will ask Mr President to clarify where he sees confusion in the numbers submitted to the Honourable Parliament. Let me make two more factually clear. Mr President has said that the sovereign debt ratio has never been so high. Please, let's look back, let's say, on the situation at the time of the change of government in 2010. But if we look back, not only do we get to know the level of the debt ratio higher than the 80.4 percent at the end of last year, but we also know under what conditions we financed this debt, that the interest burden was roughly double that Hungary could not finance itself on a market basis, we were in an excessive deficit procedure, we were dependent on IMF credit. So when we look back at the Hungarian debt ratio with a historical perspective, I think it is also appropriate to look at these circumstances, and also that the financing of the current higher sovereign debt ratio, let us say, is not a problem, compared to the level of 2019, to the level of 65.5 per cent. Thank God, there is confidence in the Hungarian economy, and this is reflected in the fact that financing our debt now is much cheaper than it was a long time ago. [[21.30]] There are no tricks in the GDP numbers. If the Member, Mr President, is concerned about the reduction in the debt ratio, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Government is expecting a 4.3 percent economic increase in the bill before you, the European Commission expects a 5% increase in its document published last week; if you look at the analytical projections, I can say that this Hungarian growth figure is still conservative. If the calculation of the Hungarian government is not achieved, but of the European Commission, for example, then you can rest assured, Mr President, that GDP will be higher, that the debt ratio will decrease more significantly, and that, again, we can expect a reduction in the debt ratio in Hungary, while the EU's average debt ratio is expected to increase. The Member also said that Hungarian economic performance is weak, perhaps he said that it was also a regional comparison. Well, I don't know if we're looking at last year and looking at a decline of over 6 per cent in the EU, then how can we post a 5 per cent decline as weak? We all know that Hungary is an open country, if our external markets shrink to a greater extent, then it is not easy for us to be above the decline level at all, with exports accounting for more than 80% of Hungarian GDP. I think that, given this structure on the external market, I do not think that the Hungarian downturn could be called weak. The congressman said a regional comparison. Well, let's look at the Slovak or Czech data. The Czech Republic dropped by 5.6 percent. As far as the investment rate is concerned, the President said that economic policy is being achieved at the expense of the people, which is favourable in an international comparison at macro-economic level. I would remind you, however, that there are more than four and a half million people employed, one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. We are convinced that this is also due to the new investments launched by the government and also to the investments to which the government provided funds last December. And that it is not just the number of people employed that is important for everyday life, it is also the evolution of wages, so I also draw attention to the fact that, despite the economic downturn, wages have increased substantially last year, and we see that this process can continue this year, just because the decline in the market could be offset by the state in the context of countercyclical economic policy, and we have kept jobs with extra funding and with the support of additional investment. Of course, some people have lost their jobs, and we are working on finding a new job as soon as possible. If the Member, Mr President, is concerned about the debt ratio, then, frankly, I do not understand why he supported the conflicting amendment that would have led to an increase in the deficit. The adoption of the President's proposal, the adoption of all the consolidated opposition proposals, would have resulted in greater deficits and greater public debt. Therefore, I think that it may be possible to consider following the fact that we can keep the debt ratio on a declining path compared to last year. At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Anett Bősz spoke about responsibility, and later mentioned shared responsibility. I fully agree with this; we all have a responsibility to send messages to Hungarian families and Hungarian residents. The Congresswoman said that sometimes it is appropriate to hold hands on social and health issues. Allow me to mention one thing: I myself have heard comments from the DK fraction against Eastern vaccines. So if we have a responsibility, I agree with the Member that, yes, we have a common responsibility on economic policy issues, it is worth having a dialogue, it is worth seeing on economic policy issues that permanent targeted catch-up can only be achieved here if the investment rate remains at a high level, if President László Varju, as economist, knows exactly what international examples are, and, yes, we also have a shared responsibility for what messages we are sending on health issues now in the waves of the coronal virus epidemic. So, I repeat, I agree with this statement, and I think it is appropriate for all of us to communicate according to this responsibility. As far as the situation of the municipalities is concerned, there has been a lot of talk about the fact that the shared responsibility, the shared responsibility you have mentioned, I believe, should also be a joint burden. I think that, in all comparisons, the most important health and economic burden on the control of the epidemic has been borne by the government, and that is right. However, the municipalities must also take part in this task, and we should thank all the municipalities that have performed this task, and we must accept that it is also in the interests of the municipalities that the Hungarian economy should be on the path of growth as soon as possible, which marked the period ending with 2019. Let me say again: between 2014 and 2019 the Hungarian economy grew by 4.1 percent on average, the EU average was 2.1 percent. One of the most significant positive beneficiaries of this growth, if I may use this term, was the municipal sector. Between 2014 and 2019, the business tax, which is the main revenue of local authorities, increased by 50 percent in terms of municipalities as a whole, representing 60 percent in the capital city. Therefore, I also believe that the aim of the municipalities is to repeat that the economy should be on a growth path as soon as possible and that it will also increase the revenue of the municipalities. For example, the reduction of the business tax rate rate for SMEs to 1 per cent, and, yes, in financing the cost of protection, we also requested the partnership of local authorities, the contribution of local authorities. The supply system has the number of new people in need, and the congresswoman has asked this question. There is indeed a philosophical difference between the government and the opposition here, as the already submitted opposition amendment proposal and the opposition's proposal in plenary were to increase the length of unemployment benefit and the amount of unemployment benefit, and the government's objective is clearly to eliminate the cause of unemployment, so that as many as possible can work. This is also true of the municipalities. Well, if we're helping businesses with hypoxia tax cuts, they have a better chance of keeping the workforce. If we use existing budgetary resources to support investment or, where appropriate, job retention for businesses, we can avoid being unemployed. So, yes, I trust that the social security system will be able to cope with the current situation, and I trust that the number of people employed will increase. The congresswoman mentioned the question of nursery again. I absolutely agree with you that if we are to reach a high employment rate, then there must be a chance that all mothers who want to work as soon as possible after having children can do so, for example, by giving their children to nursery school and later in kindergartens, and in their settlement this care, nursery care, is available. That is why, during the crisis, the government is also financing the cradle-building programme. And as far as operating costs are concerned, there has been an increase here in the past period, it is enough to think of the wage increase for daycare workers, and, of course, I also accept that we still have a job to do in this respect. I repeat, we believe that the economic policy that was successful in the pre-crisis period can also be successful in the coming years. If there is economic growth, if there is high employment, the revenue of the State can increase with reduced tax burden, and there is an opportunity to finance more operating costs in a number of areas or to finance additional wage increases where appropriate. The term "concealing" was also mentioned by the Member. Let me say here that at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we also made the observation that we are giving little information, and then the Member quoted precisely from the draft budget law. [[21.40]] Therefore, I repeat that all information relevant to the budget is available. This is also true of the figures for 2020 and the expected data for 2021. Finally, I would like to say that we are convinced that the budget proposal, which, with the aim of relaunching the economy, provides very high resources in the international comparison of 12% of GDP, can result in a faster exit from the crisis, with a view to maintaining as many jobs as possible and creating new jobs. The greater deficit and thus the rising public debt are hoped to be temporary, and in the coming years, not only will our macroeconomic indicators be positive again, and will develop as institutional investors, market investors believe, because they have confidence in the Hungarian economy and the expected budget figures, but also in everyday life; whether it is the retirement of the 13th month pension, which is included in this year's amending budget law and the budget motion for next year's budget; whether it is an increase in wages; or whether it is the expansion of family allowances. In the hope of all this, I propose to the Honourable Parliament that the motion be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-299	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the presentation of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 for the international carriage of goods by TIR means, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment, will follow. The government referral is T/1570. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-300	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication in Geneva of an amendment to the Customs Convention on the International Carriage of Goods with TIR Certificate, dated 14 November 1975, T/1570. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The International TIR Convention allows Hungarian and foreign carriers to safely transport their goods internationally during minimum customs procedures while maintaining customs guarantees. The current amendment to the Convention concerns the digitalisation of the TIR procedure, preceded by decades of international negotiations and negotiations. The new e-TIR procedure aims to build a reliable digital data and information exchange system between transport and customs actors in the countries which have acceded to the Convention. The modernisation of the Convention will further help carriers to work effectively and the faster international flow of goods, thereby strengthening the competitiveness of the Convention. The electronic TIR ID of the transporters will help the non-contact transport of goods, which can be very useful in a pandemic situation such as the present or a very similar situation. Dear House, The summarised amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee requires that the preamble to the bill be moved to the norm, since the preamble should not contain rules of conduct. We therefore recommend leaving the preamble. In addition, Act L of 2005 10. The date of entry into force has to be clarified according to § 3 of the TIR Convention, so we urge the amendment of the TIR Convention to enter into force in Hungary from 25 May 2021. Dear House, Overall, we can say that there is a need to amend and modernise the TIR Convention and that the new measures will also be favourable for Hungary, so the bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-301	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to ask Secretary Norbert Izer if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State again, if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] It says no. Your decisions, I'll inform you, will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 2018/1672 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash entering and leaving the territory of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15994. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, we hear the position of the Legislative Committee. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Dávid Héjj, rapporteur for the Committee. Here.
u2021-05-17-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the implementation of Regulation (EU, EP and Council Regulation (EU) No 2018/1672 on the control of cash entering and leaving the territory of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 33 votes to two votes, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is designed to implement EU legislation. The control of cash held by natural persons in excess of EUR 10 000 at EU border crossings complements the anti-money laundering provisions, so that due to their international monitoring and monitoring of compliance, it is in the interest of all Member States and their priority obligation to properly transpose this legislation. The new EU legislation, in parallel with the repeal of the previous regulation, significantly expands the definition of controlled cash. The former cash definition covers banknotes, coins and bearer securities in circulation, while the new EU legislation redistributes the concept of cash in a conceptual manner, extending it to non-processed gold, gold coins and so-called unaccompanied cash, i.e. mail or small packages. The obligation to report cash at the external borders is an integral part of the European Union's anti-money laundering and terrorist financing strategy. Given the fact that EU legislation repeals previous legislation, it is appropriate to deregulation domestic legislation and, at the same time, to redefine legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, As explained above, the bill contains procedural rules in line with the extended EU legislation in order to control the new financial instruments to be audited and thus fully comply with EU rules. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-303	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary again, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Izer Norbert, please.
u2021-05-17-304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to take your patience for a minute. I would like to thank the Members for their support in the general and detailed debate. Mr President, Mr President, you have very well summarised the substance of the Commission's amendment and the substance of the two proposals. I continue to ask that the proposal be supported in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-17-305	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/155992. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Hey, Congressman David, rapporteur, please. [[21.50]]
u2021-05-17-306	Thank you very much for the word again. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/155992 amendment of certain transport laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 2 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us calls for a number of amendments to the transport law. The amendment of Law I of 1988 on road transport, taking into account the provision of the Law on National Property, states that the properties acquired by the road builder to the State for the purpose of the investment are, by virtue of the power of this Act, subject to the property management of the builder and the property management contract between the builder and the owner. XLII 2010 on water transport. The amendment of law required compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation and, on the other hand, the declaration that the examination centre is carrying out the certification documents of persons on board and operating on board the floating facility, the shipping managers and the head of the floating facility for the purposes of liking. The draft also clarifies the provisions of the shipping authority concerning the processing of data. LXXXIV 1999 on Road Transport Register The amendment of the Act requires further clarification of the previous transposition of EU directives and includes a more detailed regulation of automated search for the exchange of vehicle technical data under the Directive and an amendment to the EETS Directive governing the interoperability of toll systems within the European Union. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport The Commission considers that the amendment of the Act required clarification by the law enforcement authorities, as well as the clarification of the processing authority's control and reporting of data. Ladies and gentlemen, As to what has been said, it can be said that the bill before us contains provisions to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-17-307	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The members' speeches will follow. Speaking as a representative of Lóránt Keresztes, the representative of the LMP, we can listen to him. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the general debate on the bill, we can say that we had a relatively extensive debate on transport policy, then I also missed Mr State Secretary, perhaps Deputy Minister Schanda was there, so I am taking advantage of the fact that Mr Secretary of State is here, and I would like to ask a few questions. About the bill itself, we have said that there are positive elements in it, but there are some worrying items and parts that unfortunately we will not be able to support with our vote. Here I have highlighted the provision on chain debts, which we have serious concerns about. Of course, I do not wish to repeat the very, very general transport policy reasoning, but I have one question. This morning we got to know the government's document for the recovery plan, and I saw a lot of references to it in terms of public transport. So I've seen here the coordination of the national system for the acquisition of vehicles and of the national system for public transport, the tariff community, and the other points of reference. For a very long time now, we can say that I have been calling on the government for years to find out where certain transport reforms are, which, perhaps, does not have a professional debate about their merits, and they also agree with its importance. But my question concerns that if, in the recovery plan, the document refers to their intention to go in this direction, when we can expect the government to submit a comprehensive transport reform package to the Parliament, and at last we can say that there is a great deal of a decade of failure that we can experience, the government of Viktor Orbán is trying to replace it by finally proposing a transport system that will allow us to use current resources significantly more efficiently, and is obviously also able to meet the most important goal of better service for the travelling public. I am very confident that Mr Secretary of State will say something positive, that the government will try to do something about this for the next year or so, and then, obviously, the next government will finish this work. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-309	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, you may speak.
u2021-05-17-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains ten amendments to transport-related legislation. Please allow me to briefly re-explain the proposed amendments. The aim of the amendments to the legislation relating to road infrastructure development is to facilitate and accelerate the implementation of investments and to increase cost-effectiveness. In addition, the package of proposals also complies with our country's obligations to harmonise legislation, settles the practical issues raised in the application of the law, and contains codification and technical clarifications. The amendment to the Law on Road Transport also lays down, taking into account the provisions of the Law on National Property, that the property and other assets acquired by the road builder to the State for the purpose of the investment will be subject to a property management contract between the builder and the owner. It further clarifies that the category of road which ceased to exist with the entry into force of this Act on 1 July 1988, the property currently registered in the real estate register, which is registered as a private road for its own use, and that it requires an administrative procedure for its closure or opening. The amendment of the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses serves the accuracy of data requests in electronic administration. The Hungarian transport policy, including air transport policy, the approval of concepts for the development of air transport, and the organisation of their implementation, are the responsibility of the State. It is of particular importance that the requirements in the concepts to ensure the development of air transport and the adequate quality of air transport related activities are reflected in the documents defining the operation of airports, ensuring uniform achievement of the objectives set by the State. In this context, the amendment of the Aviation Act requires the operator of the airport to specify in the airport order or in the airport manual the requirements, measures, in particular the development, service and safety performance indicators, to ensure compliance with the Hungarian transport policy and aviation policy, depending on the nature of the airport. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act is necessary for further clarification of the previous transposition of the EU directives. This includes, among other things, a more detailed regulation of automated search for the exchange of vehicle technical data and an amendment to the Directive on the interoperability of toll systems within the European Union. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Water Transport Act clarifies the harmonisation and data management provisions. The law on rail transport provides clarification and aims at fine-tuning with regard to data processing authority control and data reporting. The amendment to the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Special Economic Importance states that the builder of national roads may also have the utility provider design the public works to be replaced or built. The amendment of the Passenger Services Act is now necessary to replace the inappropriate reference of the info law. The amendment of the Toll Act serves to transpose other clarification proposals for a directive regulating the interoperability of toll systems within the European Union and providing users with access to electronic toll payments through a single on-board device. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your contributions during the general debate, and I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote. [[22.00]] And to reflect on the question of Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the priority of public transport, the preference of public transport over individual transport, is the responsibility of all governments, since we know that it is not only the world and Europe, but vice versa: it is in the interests of not only Europe, but the whole world, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, of which 25 per cent is generated by transport, and 98 per cent by road transport. Therefore, all policies should be subject to this in order to meet indicators by 2030 and 2050 that will guarantee that transport will have zero emissions by 2050. This requires the development of a Community transport strategy for all in which the backbone of Community transport focuses on high-capacity, high-performance networks, in particular railway and other public transport vehicles, and it is important that electric vehicles and other alternative vehicles are promoted as seriously as possible in public transport vehicles. The Hungarian government has a strategy for this, the application of this, and the practical introduction of this has begun. Electric buses are already used in cities at an experimental plant, but in the near months, in close years, they are expected to be rapidly distributed to local transport. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-17-311	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws in the context of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/15998. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation is held by the Parliament as an EU item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-312	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws in the context of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 2 against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill is Directive 2018/2001/EU on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, i.e. RED II. transposition into the domestic legal order, which forms part of the clean energy package of the European Union, Clean Energy Package, in short CEP. The most important element of the bill is that it will enable the 2030 targets of the national energy strategy to be achieved. It sets out as a further priority that, by 2030, the share of energy from renewable sources will be 32 per cent of the total energy consumption at EU level. RED II. the deadline for transposition of its legislative provisions is 30 June 2021. RED II. In particular, it requires electricity system operators to assess, at least every four years, the possibility for district heating systems to provide balancing or other system-wide services. The aim of the amendment is also to promote local consumption of own-produced electricity based on renewable energy use or to share locally with renewable energy communities, such as active consumers, and to ensure the efficient organisation of the local use of locally available renewable energy sources. The amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee added a number of additions to the bill, which was mainly the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. They are designed to amend law. Based on the experience of the past period, it has been established that there is a need for flexible brakes in the electricity system in order to control the rate of installation of weather-dependent solar power plants and the resulting problems. The objective of control is to achieve the energy strategy's solar target for 2030 in a way that is consistent with the system's capacity to develop, leaving an appropriate pace of preparation to create effective market conditions. In addition, the draft proposes to exempt producers of power plants with a capacity not exceeding 50 megawatts from the RH tax of producers of electricity produced from renewable energy sources or from waste. The bill also provides that, as from 1 January 2022, the extent of energy efficiency renovation will have to reach the minimum energy requirements for new buildings laid down in the legislation defining the energy performance of buildings, at least 50% of the floor area to be renovated. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, it can be concluded that, in line with our domestic objectives, and in accordance with our obligations to harmonise EU legislation, it is justified to support the bill on the House's table. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-17-313	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Attila Steiner, Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[On Attila Steiner's mark:]] It says no. The designated Committee for Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. It's time for congressmen to speak. Here. [[For signal:]] Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2021-05-17-314	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the general debate, we have said that this proposal is essentially a motion for harmonisation of laws, and, in principle, we also agree with the objectives set out, and we will be able to support it with our vote. At the time, a very, very fruitful debate was launched from the speeches of its representatives, I feel, and I very much hope that this will give us the opportunity to finally have a substantive debate before the Parliament on the issues of the use of nuclear energy, which reveals problems and disagreements. I do not want to repeat my speech in the general debate there, but there has been a shocking event for me since then. You can see and know that new nuclear power stations are now being authorised, and since the general debate has been held, we have been able to get to know the documents of the online public hearing initiated by the National Atomic Energy Office. I myself have asked a lot of questions, and I do not want to discuss them now, obviously we are not discussing this issue, but I would like to say, in any case, for the sake of the protocol, that the National Atomic Energy Office has revealed 500 problems and shortcomings in the various documents so far. We know that two or three weeks ago, the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office resigned, and now we see a proposal that the government's proposal concerns the National Atomic Energy Office, the licensing authority, with practically political appointment and a major transformation. What's behind this, Mr. Secretary? You are not long ago appointed Secretary of State of the region, so I ask how you see it, in connection with many of the problems that have been identified, this significant and sudden transformation affecting the National Atomic Energy Office. And how is it possible for the government to insist that it will not be a political appointment for the Atomic Energy Office, but, according to the bill, there is no expectation of having a professional higher education degree when the president of such an extremely important authority is appointed? We know that, according to the bill, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán intends to appoint someone for nine years in such a way that the next government will no longer have the opportunity to call him back. I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State can give us some kind of information on this. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-315	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, you may speak now. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-316	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before you is to ensure the dissemination of renewable energy production and to ensure compliance with the revised Renewable Energy Directive on the basis of the policy objectives set out in the national energy strategy. Basically, our aim is also with this harmonisation of legislation to develop an energy sector that can guarantee a high level of security of supply in a consumer- and climate-friendly way, and also uses new, innovative technologies, as well as focus on renewable energy-based decentralised electricity production. [[22.10]] Our specific objective, as stated in the climate and nature conservation action plan, is that by 2030 we want to produce 90 percent of electricity production in the Hungarian electricity system without CO2 emissions. One of the fundamental conditions for this, mentioned by Mr President, is to maintain the role of nuclear energy, which is the basis for achieving this 90 percent target, and there will also be plenty of room for renewable energy, which will be precisely brought forward by this legislative harmonisation. Of course, we want solar power generation to triple compared to current capacities and reach capacity of 6,000 megawatts by 2030. Basically, this current bill is not about nuclear energy, but I would like to point out, in response to the points raised by the Member, that the new law is based on the model of the Hungarian energy agency. We have just received confirmations from the Brussels side that it is good that the Energy Office is also an independent body, because its independence has increased very significantly to the Energy Office, and the European Energy Bureau has just issued a report on this. So I think that this, too, can give everyone some kind of confirmation that there is no secret conspiracy behind this amendment, but that we are essentially trying to strengthen the independence of the office, just as we have done in the case of the Energy Office, and there is an international confirmation that this is a good move. So thank you very much for your comments, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in light of all of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-317	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, C-66/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15909. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, we hear the position of the Legislative Committee. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee, here you go.
u2021-05-17-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that C-66/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union discussed at its meeting on 13 May 2021. For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. T/1590. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that the Court of Justice of the European Union is Commission v Hungary C-66/18. Following a comparison in international law, it regulates the provisions on the functioning of foreign higher education institutions on the basis of German law. The amendment to the Act on National Higher Education relating to the functioning of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary 76 and 77. It seeks to amend its provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the proposal, a nationally recognised foreign higher education institution established in the EEA State may carry out training activities in Hungary, if the training it intends to pursue in the territory of Hungary and the diploma issued with regard to it constitutes a course giving a state-recognized degree in higher education in the EEA State in which it is established, and the entitlement of the higher education institution to a training activity giving a diploma is determined by the Education Office on request. A higher education institution established in a non-EEA State may carry out training activities in Hungary where the level of qualification of the diploma issued by it can be recognised in Hungary and the admission requirements of the training it provides in Hungary can be met with the admission requirements of a publicly recognised higher education institution providing training equivalent to that of the institution, it is included in an international contract concluded by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the foreign higher education institution is established, and the right of the higher education institution to pursue training activities is authorised by the Education Office on request. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-319	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Speaking woman, please.
u2021-05-17-320	Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly is the 10/2014. Decision No 44-45. The Court of Justice of the European Union, C-66/18, held on 4 May 2021. For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. T/1590. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it complied with the House Rules of the Decision 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee noted that no amendments had been tabled to the bill by its representatives and that the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed discussion. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary took note of the need to amend the relevant paragraphs of the National Higher Education Act in order to implement the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the context of the European Commission's action for failure to fulfil obligations against Hungary. The implementation of the judgment will help universities operating in Hungary to be able to fully meet the conditions set out in it in the future. For this reason, the Committee supports the adoption of the bill before us, the compliance of the functioning of foreign-based higher education institutions in Hungary with the requirements set out in the judgment. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-321	Thank you very much. The members' speeches will follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Schanda if she'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-05-17-322	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Ádám Héyj presented the bill in detail, leaving me with nothing more to do than to thank you for what you said and to ask the Parliament to help you with their votes in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-17-323	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The first of these will be Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction: our city, Pécs.
u2021-05-17-324	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Indeed, in my speech after the agenda, I am usually talking about my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya. I am going to do this now in a way that I am referring to this week's debate on next year's budget, and unfortunately we are seeing a lot of problematic points in this budget, which will certainly be harmful if this is left unamended, and will be detrimental to Pécs and Baranya. [[22.20]] We can say that the last 11 years have basically been the loser of Pécs and Baranya counties, both from an economic point of view and in other ways in terms of many misguided government decisions. But we also have to say that here in the epidemiological situation, at the time of the crisis, the interrelationship of government restrictions and withdrawals alone have caused enormous damage to some of the municipalities of Baranya County, such as Pécs, Komló, Kozármisleny, and I could also mention the settlements that were in fact damaged, and the series of government restrictions have been detrimental. Obviously, we have had a lot of discussions here in the past period and we have drawn attention to the fact that there is no tragedy here, not specifically for the municipalities, that these government restrictions are a problem, but for the people, because one of the most important tasks of the municipalities is to maintain basic public services, and if the government does not provide adequate resources for the operation of the municipalities, then these public services are at risk. In recent years, in recent weeks and months, we have seen that in a false way, in imitation of some kind of discussion, the government has stalled time and has not provided sufficient and adequate compensation to the municipalities. In the case of Pécs, it could be said that it provided only 2 billion forints in support, even though more than 5 billion forints were lost specifically by the epidemiological situation and a series of government restrictions. Therefore, for the proposal and draft of the budget for next year, I am proposing amendments which not only in the case of Pécs, Komló and Kozármisleny, but also in the case of the entire region, the municipalities operating here, will be given the compensation that can handle government withdrawals in this way. Another huge problem is that one of the most important public services, if not the most important public service, is the supply of drinking water in a very difficult situation. We know that the government has not given the right support for maintenance and replacement work for many years, and that, in fact, there is an increasing problem that the municipalities are forced to roll in front of. If we look only at Tettye Forrás Zrt. or the supply area of Tettye Forrás, we can say that, in the 15-year horizon, 20 billion HUF is missing beyond the existing resources in order to maintain the most important public service. And if we add DRV and Baranya-Water companies in the region, we can say that we are talking about a significantly greater value here. I mentioned here that these sources are coming in a 15-year perspective. I am going to propose an amendment to ensure that the resources necessary for basic maintenance and replacement work are available proportionately and pro rata to time. Similarly, enormous damage was caused by the government decision to withdraw, precisely in the epidemiological situation, the state resources and state price supplement for local public transport. I will also make an amendment to this, as it is not in itself expected of the municipalities, especially in such a difficult economic area, so that they can solve this very important public service without State aid. And also, in view of the future, I think it is very important that we establish a Community transport system that also combines urban transport systems that operate separately and can ultimately develop a common approach to Community transport in the region. So, in practice, this would look like a uniform tariff, using a uniform lease, even hop citizens can get to Pécs with a local lease and use local community transport. The professional concept of this has existed for very, very long years, and funding must be resolved here, and obviously until the change of government takes place, there is nothing we can do but submit a proposal to ensure this. And also a very, very important step, we know that transport in Pécs has faced very, very serious problems in recent decades. There was a corruption-suspected bus sales process, and then a corruption-suspected bus procurement process. In this regard, I reported about four years ago, and we know how difficult it is for community transport, so I will also present this year the proposal that the central budget will receive billions of HUF for the development of the Pécs public transport fleet, which is already very old and in poor condition. I am very confident that the pro-government representatives [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they will also feel their own responsibility and support my proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-17-325	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, is next:. Orbán lied again. And he's busted again! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, also at this late hour. We are few, but I suppose those who sit here may remember: the Prime Minister, in addition to his many other lies, found that just a year ago, as many jobs as the virus destroys, he and the Cabinet will create as many jobs. How exactly did you put it? There will not be a person who, if this period is running out, would not receive an offer from the Hungarian economy or the Hungarian state. Well, we've been looking into this, and somewhere else as Debrecen, like in Debrecen, the alternative capital of Fidesz, in the window city, where everything can happen and the opposite, and where the mayor can perfectly recant otherwise any propaganda given into his mouth. Because, of course, it's easy to lie to a country's eyes, stand up in Parliament and claim that our country is based on a work-based society, and that we are slowly reaching 100 percent employment, and that everyone who says otherwise is either Soros or Gyurcsány's man. Because it is clear to all citizens of Debrecen that, unlike the promises of the lying prime minister, the masses of businesses left without government help have gone down, which, of course, has led to mass redundancies and unemployment for families and workers in Debrecen. There is an example of this in everyone's environment, and I think everyone can give such an example. You can't hide it with false propaganda or deny it. And in Debrecen, too, the lock was placed at the gates of more and more businesses and businesses, which clearly showed that the Debrecens who were left without work certainly did not receive an offer, as the Prime Minister said, neither from the Hungarian economy nor, above all, from the Hungarian state. Of course, the Prime Minister may have felt that something was wrong in this story; perhaps they just told him, we do not know that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are faced with the false promises he made, so he tried to refine his position: if not elsewhere, there will surely be public work for them, he said, the government, because of the failed crisis management. Therefore, representatives of DK Debrecen turned to the mayor of Debrecen for information on how the number of people employed in public work in the city had developed in the past years, the year before the pandemic, during the period of the epidemic. László Papp, mayor of the city of Debrecen, thought for a long time to reply or not to reply to our request, then, of course, came the usual block, the propaganda text, and sent us back, in which he informed us that it was not managed by the local government, and here I quote precisely this, the public interest data, which in itself is a ridiculous claim. Therefore, we have contacted not only the mayor, but the local government in Debrecen, DEKERT Kft., which operates the public works program in the city. The head of the company has already responded, but I'm guessing you've agreed with the mayor that he has an obligation to answer and tell you the information you requested. Then we received another letter from the mayor, in which he did not think that the municipality of Debrecen would not handle data of public interest, but he tried to wash the Fidesz mundér for a long time, well, it did not exist. Because as much as he wanted it or didn't want to tell it, as much as he did or didn't want to tell it, the truth turned out: what we already knew, or at least we suspected: that the Hungarian Prime Minister lies shamelessly and unscrupulously in everything, because in Debrecen, in the window city of Fidesz, in the alternative capital of the government, in 2019 and now pay attention, because the average number of statistics was 327 in public works, in 2020 only 224 people, and in 2021 the number of people employed in public works is less than 200 per year. What do these three or four numbers tell us? It clearly turns out that although the mayor of Debrecen wanted to keep this quiet, he wanted to protect the honor of the fidesz filthy munter, but he couldn't; Orbán lied and got caught again. He's gonna drink the juice someday. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-17-327	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, spoke after the following agenda: Erd's individual representative does not represent the city in Parliament, but the government in the city. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The county town of Érd received 777 million forints as a substitute for the loss of business tax revenue. [[22.30]] As a result of the epidemic, many settlements are in need of this. This amount, I note, in the case of Érd, is considered to be some kind of memorable prepayment, hardly anything else. If we just think that cities with pro-government county rights have received nearly double of this, injustice is already striking. Each year until 2019, Érd received HUF 700 million of operating aid to carry out its mandatory tasks. As the Democratic opposition alliance defeated Andras T. Mészáros on 13 October 2019, this support ceased. Is there, then, a vendetta against the democratic opposition-led cities, or not, fellow Members? It'd be nice to decide. If the individual representatives of the governing parties were serious about volunteering for the service of all voters, they would have fought to ensure that these unparalleled withdrawals did not take place. This was the case in 2019 and 2020, so the city's budget deficit was 1.4 billion forints in January this year. After the withdrawal of the car tax, Reach recorded an additional HUF 600 million loss. This, counting for two years, was burdened with a further HUF 1 billion deficit due to the halving of the local business tax. This is happening in a city where industrial parks were developed in a very modest way between 2006 and 2019, so there are hardly any large taxpayers. As a result of the above, Erd lost HUF 3.25 billion in 2019 and 2020. András Aradszki, our fellow Member, who is in office in the region, says that the HUF 777 million grant is a success. However, as compensation for the HIPA loss, the tax revenue from this would be HUF 2.5 billion, half of which lost the city, so the HUF 777 million, pay close attention, only 62.16 percent of the revenue losses. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are well aware that this is not enough for a two-thirds majority, and in this case you will have to ask a minority advocate or perhaps the honourable members of our country to help you reach a qualified majority. Thus, they do not help the county town of Érd to be able to withstand at least two thirds of the previous costs. Besides, a few weeks ago György Balla, our fellow Member, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, held a negotiation that concluded that he did not say no to us. å said then to the city administration. So they admitted that Érd is in an extremely special situation, so the government can't throw him into the category that it's a city with opposition leadership, so we're not giving them anything. If the two ministries and the representatives of the majority of governments could have seen this in just an hour and a half, fellow Members, it would have been good if the parliamentary representative of the region had not reported the compensation of HUF 777 million of the EUR 3.25 billion loss as a success. In this case, it would have been fair for our fellow Member András Aradszki to admit that the country is in trouble, that's all there is to it, but the government and the central budget can only give it with force. But I think that this kind of honesty is far from the current majority of governments. I hope, by the way, that next year we will be able to hold a budgetary debate in which the current opposition will govern this country in a colourful Democratic alliance. I also hope that we can bring justice to cities suffering from lack of resources and withdrawals at the moment, both under 25,000 people and over 25,000 people. And I feel it is my duty, in the debate on the current budget, to draw up a proposal for an amendment that may at least be able to deal with the problems I have mentioned in theory. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-17-329	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. MEP László Hajdu, representative of DK: 50 years ago: Home Reservation New Palota. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-330	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, I'd like to remember a local historical event. For sale in Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, This was city planning, city building. In this first building, which was built as a cooperative-owned apartment, 352 apartments were delivered, where residents gradually moved in. My friend János Gugyella, I'm talking about 1-21 Nyírpalota út, who was the first to move in as a happy owner of New Palota. I remember a little about him and the people who were there 50 years ago, and after 50 years, they're still there today. This Mr. János Gugyella, who was a steel structure locksmith in a yard that no longer exists today, then earned a technical degree and retired as operator, began as an industrial student and worked in one place until his retirement, this man lived in a 17 square meter shop with himself before that, and they were glad that they had moved to a new apartment, which at that time meant a three-bedroom apartment for five people in a panel building according to the standards. We contacted my colleague Balázs Barkóczi, my friend, whom I asked to run for election 2022 and the opposition pre-election, after I had already retired from the assembly after my 30 years of service, and asked Mr Balázs Barkóczi to tell us about how this particular move happened. At the time, the people living in the cooperative flat had to organize the management of the cooperative themselves, organize the cultural move, organize the bang drilling to drill the various things into the concrete wall, since there were no hammer drills yet, ask or take from the companies which were in such a situation. We had to organize the civilized co-existence, the cooperative rules, the budget. They've never done that. That was how this pioneering life went at that time. After the conversation, there was much more involved. Many of the people who originally moved in are no longer alive. I remember them, too, with my little speech for a few minutes. Walking in front of the house, the trees are beautiful, in fact the trees planted 50 years ago are now huge, large, three to four floors of grown trees, in a beautiful green park, which is why I say we walk around in a residential park in the garden of kindergartens, crèches, beautiful green gardens. I think that those who built it, designed it, made the decision, provided the source, and I remember them now on the 50th anniversary. I would like to wish New Palota, especially the inhabitants of Nyírpalota Road 1-21, on the occasion of the 50th birthday, on the occasion of the anniversary of the move-in, a peaceful, good-friended coexistence, a co-existence of which there is a great shortage of New Palota and everywhere there are communities. Communities: I highlight this because this 1-21 house has since almost rebuilt its own building, built energy-saving solar panels on the rooftops, replaced almost all the wires, made district heating measurable and replaced the gas pipeline, so its owners are the owners of the house they moved into. God bless the citizens of Nyírpalota Road 1-21. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[22.40]]
u2021-05-17-331	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, the representative of DK is:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-332	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. After my fellow Member, Mr László Hajdu, after such a historical reflection, I would now like to continue with the subject that has struck me as shocking news last week. With the fact that the government is once again interfering in the lives of the municipalities and destroying the goals of the responsible municipalities, with the proposal for an amendment, which has already been submitted on a regular basis during the night. I am talking about the local government tenements which are forced to sell on the basis of the government's proposal, and it wants to make a law on this, which must be sold. I think that it is not those who will take advantage of such an opportunity, but that the government has not thought through the consequences of its decision. The hundreds in Újpesten, who are waiting for a rental, lose the opportunity in the near future, perhaps even in the medium term, we can say that they will not have the opportunity to start their own lives, the desired new start will not be possible. Of course, the task of the Municipality of Újpest is to make life easier and better for those living in its jurisdiction. Over the past year, dealing with the extraordinary situation caused by the epidemic has been more than an ordeal than usual, especially in a situation where the government's withdrawal has caused severe pain to the heads of city leaders, let us say. And with this decision they want to add to the situation, they make the most pressing problem irresolvable. Dear House, For your information, when I was hosting a meeting in the last few days, three of the four interested or reporting people I had been talking to and who discovered their personal problems were dealing with housing problems and housing issues. Therefore, I will use again and every opportunity to say that this will only exacerbate the opportunity taken from the municipalities in this way, the housing crisis that this government has created over recent years. But what can the mayors do, what can Mr. Tibor Déri and his team do, or what can József Tóth and his team do in Angelland besides protest? Because, by the way, what do we see, what do they see? That the people of the home mafia have already arrived, and it is only Monday today, but they are already on the estate, searching for those in need, and recommending them or those who think they are in such a position to provide lifelong housing if, by the way, they purchase these apartments from their credit. And what if it doesn't? What if, as new owners, they are thrown out of these apartments and, by the way, they make up for the situation of being in need of many homes? Over and over again, I suggest that both the presenter and the pro-government representatives should think about it again, because they are causing great trouble and they are adding, as I said, to the housing crisis that has already been created. Meanwhile, the mayor's offices are swimming against the price, yet they are trying to create opportunities for development and development in some way. They do this when they create a consortium for viable cities, for example, when they try to take advantage of the opportunity for families to improve their energy supply, or when, for example, in Újpesten, they are doing this, for example, struggling with the renewal and renovation of the clinic, even though the government is drawing funds. All this needs to be redesigned and re-evaluated by city leaders. I therefore respectfully propose that the government resign and ensure that there is an opportunity for local authorities to operate rather than eviscerate local authorities. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-05-17-333	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik, can now speak:.. How could the cleaning women of Marcali Hospital be deceived? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-17-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Among the walls of this beautiful House of Parliament, they have heard from me many times and may already know from the outside that the perhaps greatest problem of people living in Marcal district has existed for many years is the Calvary of the Marcal hospital. In particular, the abolition of obstetric gynecology, the children's class, the need to travel more and more to Kaposvár for the use of healthcare services, must wait 15 months for an eye examination, and not least the promised improvements, the CT acquisition and the return of the hospital's autonomy have not been completed. But it's unheard of, and I don't think you've ever heard of the fact that in Marcal Hospital, degraded to the Kaposi Mor Training Hospital, no contributions are paid for the employees there. Yes, after those cleaning women who have been conscientiously cleaning the premises of the hospital for years, they do not pay contributions. They're doing all this during an epidemic, putting their own health, their lives at risk. This, I ask you, is unworthy, and for this reason I have recently asked Minister Miklós Kásler a written question on how it can happen that in a state-owned institution no contributions are paid for the workers. That is the question that I asked, and that the health government is taking steps to help these people in distress. The former question was answered on behalf of Minister Bence Rétvári, who did not answer the latter question. This shows that they have no intention of helping these people. Moreover, it informed me that it could not provide information in the light of the legal rules on the protection of tax secrets. However, he strongly stressed that the hospital could not have been aware of the unlawful conduct of the taxpayer concerned. This was at least acknowledged by the unlawful conduct of companies which, by the way, posted on the payrolls sent to cleaning women each month, how much contributions were deducted, only in, forgot, in a quotation mark, I would ask the Chief Reporter to place these amounts in quotes to the NAV. [[22.50]] And as a result, how did these cleaning ladies find out about it? By not being able to retire without being able to receive health care. Well, it's nonsense that a medical worker, a hospital worker, can't get health care. Therefore, I propose that we return to good practice in previous years, in particular to include nurses and doctors as well as cleaning women in hospital staff, and it may not happen that the hospital board does not know about these maladministrations. Otherwise, the leadership of the Kaposi Mor could have noticed that these sly companies are changing regularly because they will be liquidated and disappear. So they can't really be committed to anything anymore. My second suggestion is, if you do sign up with companies, although I would add that I consider it cost-optimization, as the hospital doesn't want to pay contributions, but if you do sign up with a company, then perhaps these companies should have references going back many years, decades. Maybe we should take a look at this. It would also be good to ensure that, on the basis of the contract, when the certificate of performance is sent to the hospital's management, they attach the payment list of their employees, the certificate that the NAV deserves, that the contributions have been paid. And last but not least, I ask the health government once again not to abandon the cleaning women in Marcal. It is an impossible condition, it is outrageous that conscientious workers who are about to retire cannot retire now, nor can they use health services. And to top it all off, they might end up obliging them to pay their contributions years back. But don't do that, I'm very confident that the necessary steps will be taken. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-17-335	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
