u2018-09-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, then from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and then about 6:00 p.m. The hour of immediate questions and answers will take place from 1:45 p.m. to 2.45 p.m., and we will conclude the meeting of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn applied for a pre-meeting speech: what the government intends to do to help municipalities in the Territorial Operational Programme the title of the award for the implementation of awarded applications. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, several mayors of small towns have contacted me with serious concerns about the completion of territorial operational programmes. As they say, there are many reasons for concern. The deadline for completion seems to be increasingly untenable, as we know that more professionals have taken up work abroad in recent years, so there are very few contractors. Smaller settlements have not been given much opportunity in the regional operational programmes in Baranya county, so each application is a great asset for us. The problem is that the shortage of professionals and the increase in the private sector's incentives for investment and construction have significant price drives, which means that in many cases the aid awarded may not cover the cost of the investment at all. But let's consider an example I know well. I was mayor in Manfa Village when we applied for rainwater drainage. Fortunately, we received 50 million forints of funding. We applied for this amount in a consortium with the municipality of Baranya County, of which HUF 42 million is available for building costs. The offers already submitted for planning, i.e. received in response to the invitation to tender, have shown that they no longer cover the amount to which they will cost. At that time, 950,000 forints were set for design costs, instead the best offer was 1 million 850 thousand forints. At the time, we were able to finance this by regrouping costs from a tender. But if this trend continues, the construction cost of HUF 42 million could be HUF 80 million? Such a small settlement can't afford to add the same amount. It is very important that we have already received a signal from the county government that we are trying to implement this tender with a reduced technical content, which would be unfortunate because this is a specific flood-dangered settlement, the Baranya Canal, running through here. In the past, people introduced all the precipitation water into this canal because of the terrain conditions, which often causes flood protection, there have been many times since it poured out, and let's say, that was quite a long time ago, caused a significant amount of flooding. Lightning floods are typical. So, if we're going to finish with reduced technical content, what will it be enough for? The question is: what does the government intend to do to help us, help the mayors, help the settlements to achieve it? I mean, where will the settlements get the money to finance this significant extra expenditure? The other concern, which currently exists in many of the mayors, is due to the notifications received in the days in which the municipalities are called to the attention under the Law on Aht. that the funds received from the Union, resources over 50 million and amounts should be deposited into an account managed by the Treasury by 30 September. This is 2018. CHAPTER VII It was modified on the 26th of October, and many were surprised to note this, and many were alarmed about the cause of this. There's a lot of speculation, worrying opinions, press coverage. Many of the city leaders do not understand why this is necessary, since there are settlements where the money has been in the account for over a year, in their own account. Many people think that if they are transferred, it is as if they had to pay back the support they received, so I feel that it is important for everyone to have an information and to have a reassuring answer to the question of the real reason why these subsidies should be transferred to the account held by the Treasury, and the other question is whether the municipalities can continue to initiate payments at the expense of the aid in full. Please give me a reassuring answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the government, Minister of State Sándor Bodó will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman! Thank you very much for focusing your attention on such an important tender opportunity and procedure with your comment today. Indeed, applications for the Territorial Operational Programme are a very popular category where municipalities have chosen the best knowledge and idea of the area they want to develop. We must admit that this was not the case before, that many times the ideas had to be adapted to the calls for proposals, while here reality really dictated the situation in life. We are talking about 100% support, and this, I think, is certainly proof that there is a government intention that provides development opportunities for the smallest settlements, and that sometimes it is not a matter of self-esteem to implement such a programme. For the rest of the question, it was indeed possible for a technical review to take place, but this could not affect the substance of the programme. So what is necessary in order for the development to take place remained in the revision of the technical content. If there were parts of the programme that could be avoided, it was something that might have reduced the additional costs. With regard to the procurement procedure, it was indeed possible to do so in the form of restricted or open procedures, and as a result, I believe that it has been possible to choose the contractors in many places. [[11.10]] Indeed, as time passes and prices evolve, there have been cases where own resources may be involved, where this is available, and there are initiatives by several municipalities that wish to borrow development loans over several years to achieve this. As regards its comments on the Treasury account and its question: the municipalities received this form of aid, an amount of aid, and this is available on their own sub-account. In many places, the execution and payment have already been carried out, so the accounting period is already taking place here. There are municipalities that will be able to do this by the end of October, and it is perfectly all right here. However, there are also local governments that can no longer implement this development programme this year for various reasons. Well, in their case, there is no withdrawal at all, and the mayors, the mayor's offices, have been informed of this. All that happens is that this money will be transferred to the Treasury account managed by the Treasury, but in its name, for financial reasons, until the programme is implemented. So it's inappropriate, and I think it's either a lack of information or a bad intention to assume that someone would want to take this source away from them. Well, that is not at all, and I would like to stress once again that this source remains at your disposal; there are so many financial procedural changes that it will be kept in a Treasury account instead of a sub-account so far, until this programme is implemented in the next period. I would ask Congresswoman to inform the mayor's colleagues about this. This is a formal financial procedure, and I believe that it will serve in the next period that these improvements will be implemented. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-4	Thank you, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. On current matters! Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the summer, we heard a lot of worrying developments about the Paks enlargement. On the one hand, in August, the heat wave was only thanks to the official help that the low water level and the high water temperature did not mean that the Paks nuclear power plant had to be stopped. The return of the cooling water almost caused a natural disaster, in Hungarian: we almost cooked the fish in the Danube. The Prime Minister visited Moscow last week and made a rather worrying statement there; he said that they were trying to keep the deadlines for Paks II, but this is secondary to making this big case a success. However, the deadline is not secondary at all, because if the two blocks are not completed in time, not only the construction will be much more expensive, but the possibility of reimbursing the Russian loan from the profits of the electricity generated in Paks II will also be lost. This was one of the main reasons in addition to the Paks expansion that we would be able to produce electricity cheaply, and therefore the investment will quickly bring back the price. A realistic ending in 2032, which is a problem because the Russian loan has to be repaid from March 2026. The new reactors will therefore operate at best six to seven years after the start of the loan repayment. Also in the summer, there were several polls on Paks, which clearly show that the majority of Hungarian society is opposed to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In the survey carried out by Median, the respondents have concerns in particular about the Russian loan taken out for construction. In addition, 82 percent believe that instead of nuclear energy, renewable energy sources should be supported by the State. Compared to this, according to data recently reported by Eurostat, our country currently has a 7 per cent share of renewable energy in the EU. In Austria, this percentage is 70 percent, in Sweden it is 65 percent; even in neighbouring countries it is higher: in Slovenia it is 32 percent, in Croatia it is 46 percent, and even Romania is far ahead with 42 percent. The government often points out that something is being done because the majority of Hungarian society supports it. Now's your chance to consider the entire Paks investment, the Russian loan. Paks II. dear, nuclear power is risky and unsafe. The area of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a geological hazard. It's a fact that Paks has an active launcher at his location. The dangers involved are enough to think of Fukushima, where there was a similar active launcher. It is not too late to stop the investment in Paks and cancel the Russian loan and invest in renewable energies instead of nuclear power. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-6	Thank you, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Minister János Süli.
u2018-09-24-7	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Your claim about the Danube that Paks was only able to keep the block running here with the help of the authorities is not true. There's an official limit, which is 30 degrees, measuring the temperature 500 metres from the emission point. This is a manageable process. Therefore, it is stipulated that the load of the power plant must be reduced to the extent that this limit can be respected. This happened. It was not by accident that it was possible to measure 29,8 degrees at that point, because if I reduced the developing heat, so I reduced the power output of the reactors from this data, it can be seen that these days the power plant was operating with less power - it was first operating because the efficiency of fresh water cooling is, by definition, lower at the beginning of the power plants, and then, in order to comply with this temperature limit, we were able to comply with it, and we can always comply with it. By the way, when designing new blocks, these aspects are much more specific: the temperature increase is rather than the current 11 degrees, so that I can heat the temperature of the Danube, it is limited to 8 degrees and 33 degrees at the exit point. So there's no way to keep the value that's prescribed. And by the way, it never says that we do not heat up the entire cross-section of the Danube, but that the water released is a hot tub. So at the current water station, and 400 meters wide, the Danube, a 100-meter sea, has this temperature of water, and at the next 300 metres or higher water level, it is different and wider, where the wildlife can choose. And that's right, the creatures, the fish that love warmer water, they're fishing according to the fishermen, they're here in the oxygenated, warmer water. These are facts, you can smile on it [[Defiance in the dialogue.]] But the facts speak for themselves. And in the other part, in the lane that doesn't heat up, the wildlife is unchanged. Speaking of what you're saying, when this power plant will be ready. Currently, we know that they are not still operating between 32 and 37. These dates refer to how long I-IV is still operational. Bloc. This is a question of how the new blocks will be put in place and how they will be set at 26-27. Yes, it can be a slip because we have always said that the deadline is not the most important, because it is a 60-year block, so safety is the most important thing in this matter, and it must be planned until we can safely start building it so that we can build it. [[11.20]] There are examples of this. In Finland, the French started the process ten years ago that we still haven't finished. We don't want that. According to the contract amendment to the financial contract, the interest burden will be paid, as appropriate, from the moment the power plant starts operating. So this can also be changed. The treaty amendment is in the process. We represent Hungary's interests in ensuring that electricity is still available to consumers, which can be produced safely, regardless of the weather. I can now confirm to you that we are still doing our job in this respect to this day. And as Brussels has said, this is a profitable power plant with a profit of 7.3 percent. That's what we can argue about. I have invited every parliamentary committee to Paks, and you have been invited to a committee that has attended the Paks visit. I trust that every committee that visits us will be convinced that this is technically one-mandated and that it is not a political matter that has to be done from the technical problem, but that we should leave it to the technical authorities to, I stress, create sustainable, safe, cheap, carbon-free power plant capacity in Hungary, regardless of the weather. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-8	Thank you very much, Minister János Süli. Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, also came forward before the agenda. Title of his statement:. Who and why the M3 motorway hinders XV. the construction of the noise barrier in the district? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-9	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Annex XV is amended as follows: The M3 motorway passes through the district area of the district. Since the 1980s, the increasing traffic of the motorway has caused increasing noise to the inhabitants of the area. From the very beginning, people have demanded that a noise barrier be built on the urban section, near the M3. Yeah, but for the Orbán government, it's not what people want, it's what's good for the Fidesz entrepreneurs. It is in the interest of certain entrepreneurs or those cooperating with them to reduce the value of the properties on the highway so that they can obtain them cheaply. Therefore, the continuously built noise barrier under Fidesz could no longer be built and stopped until 2010. On the road between Wesselényi and Szentmihályi út, an island is not built in a length of 1,200 metres, and there are businesses behind it. The cancer palaces, therefore, continue to be under noise for several miles. From 2015 onwards, as a municipal representative in the capital, I have repeatedly initiated the construction of the missing section, but every time we move forward, someone has pushed the case back. In October 2016, the building permit was finally issued, but a counter-interested contractor appealed again. After a long legal process, the license finally became final, but time is passing, and the population is getting impatient. The last eight years have shown that Fidesz and the Orbán government are not interested in XV. It's in the interest of the district, it's more important for some entrepreneurs to make a lot of money by preventing wall-building through depressed property. According to the latest news, on 5 September 2018, the Board of Directors of the VKK approved the launch of public procurement. If this goes well, the noise barrier will be ready at the earliest next year. After nine years of waiting, we have no illusions. We can be sure that if Angéla Németh, the leader of the opposition team, wins the interim election on 30 September, she will beat the table until the noise barrier wall is built on XV. in the district. It would be reasonable to expect that Fidesz, who is opposition in the district, would stand next to the district. It doesn't seem a difficult choice what's most important, a couple of entrepreneurs' bank accounts or families in Crab Palota. The former Fidesz Member of Parliament, Tamás László, chose not the cancer palaces, but the entrepreneurial lobby that caused the cancer palaces to make noise. Tamás László confronted his own constituency, and now he accuses that the noise barrier has not been completed due to the failure of the district management, while it is quite clear from the facts that the district leadership has done everything. The ball is right in the middle of the capital city and the Fidesz politician, as they have even taken over the design from the capital, so that this cost does not burden them. Dear Parliament, Everyone's tired of living in highway noise all the time. It bothers families, disturbs the elderly, troubles the children, only the Fidesz, the Fidesz-led capital, and the local politicians of Fidesz. I must warn you that on the 30th, the interim mayor election will not forget this by the district voters. In the case of the noise barrier, Angéla Németh will, as my worthy successor, drive the Fidesz capital leadership to build the noise barrier wall, which has been waiting for nine years for the new palaces, cancer palaces and pestújhelyi. Angéla Németh will never side with you or your entrepreneurs, he cannot be bought or intimidated. I suggest you be honest with the cancer palace after nine years, and let's say to your eyes why they have to live in noise, let's tell them whose interests are more important than theirs, and who and why the M3 highway is preventing XV. the construction of the noise barrier in the district section of the district. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-09-24-10	Thank you, Congressman László Hajdu. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-09-24-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It was weird listening to that speech. My first question, when you were talking about a failure here, Congressman, was to say who was the mayor of the 15th century. in the district for the last four years. It wasn't you? That means you should have done everything you could to get this noise barrier ready. I felt that you were making accusations here, which, of course, I refuse. He accuses himself or those of himself, because it's your party whose tempo and method is to accuse someone of something they're otherwise doing. You've made a mistake, you haven't done anything in the past, and now you're asking the government to account for something that would have been your business and yours. But how much the government cares about the roads, how much they do not only with the capital roads, but also with the rural roads, let me tell you a few things about that. In recent years, we have spent a considerable amount of money on road renovations. Main roads, motorways and side roads have been renewed in a thousand billion-dollar order of magnitude in recent years. If I look only at the side roads and the rural side roads: 150 billion forints was earmarked by the government to renew the four-to-five-digit roads. Because the problem is not only that the noise load in some places is higher than the average and disturbs the people living there, they are not able to travel anywhere else, they are in such a state, thanks, among other things, to your governance, your governance before 90, and then, thanks to their governance or anti-government in the period between 94-98 and 2002-2010, that these roads have remained in such a neglected state. Over the past few years, we have spent a very serious amount of money pulling the economy out of the pit that you brought in to renew these roads. Let's look at the question you've asked, what the City Council has done in the past, instead of beating the tattam there, to make this particular noise barrier. As you probably know, the Budapest General Assembly decided to take part in the 15th meeting in June 2017. About the construction of the noise barrier section near the opening section of the M3 district between the Wesselényi Street pedestrian overpass and Szentmihályi Road, about 1200 metres in length. The wall is supposed to be about four meters high, and in the lower part it will be made of cement-bound noise-shadowing elements made of wood chips and transparent elements in the upper part. [[11.30]] The total cost of implementation is estimated at HUF 360 million. In order to implement this decision, the general meeting was scheduled to open the procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor, according to official information, in August 2018. According to this schedule, the contract can take place later this year, and the construction can start in the spring of 2019. In the second half of 2017, the client concerned initiated a judicial review procedure against the decision of the construction permit issued at second instance and requested the suspension of enforcement. The court rejected this plea, the decision is final, so it has nothing to do with the charge you have made. Only you, as mayor, do not seem to know how a certain procedure works and how long it takes from the idea to the implementation. It's sad that as mayor, you don't know that, or as mayor. The client submitted a new statement to the court on 19 May 2018, which resulted in a further hearing on 18 September 2018, so the preparation of this particular noise barrier wall is under way, which the City Council has decided very seriously and is paying serious attention to in this respect. I'm asking you not to bore Parliament with political and campaign speeches, but to do whatever you can, or you would have done everything you can to make this noise barrier at your mayor's time. You've had four years, Your Honor, former mayor. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-12	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. The address of his speech:.....is really a doctor....the Ten Commandments as a People's Health Program. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In February 2018, the news exploded, in the middle of the campaign, that hospital leaders had to give the government two good news a week. Since then, seven months have passed, and if we look at the news, let me read you some headlines about what news about health has appeared in the last two weeks: you have to pay for the doctor's unwarranted call and intervention. Custodian care in Pedestrian. If the doctor considers that the patient went unreasonably, the patient will have to pay up to HUF 4,000. They fired the heart surgeon of the National Cardiology Institute, Dr. László Székely. Several patients went home, and serious surgeries were canceled due to the departure of the chief of cardiothoracic surgeon. They've taken back Dr. László Székely. Then the news appeared immediately, yet the chief doctor of the National Institute of Cardiology will not be taken back. After the nurses, all the anaesthetists quit their lips at the hospital. There's a county in the country with a high mortality rate. In men, the difference is 12 percent higher and in women is 9 percent higher, which applies to the county of Nógrád. Cancer takes 400 thousand years from the lives of Hungarians, for which the overloaded, underfunded health care is to blame. In Hungary, between 32 and 33 thousand people die of cancer each year, which is the worst figure among OECD countries. Only hospitals are more dissatisfied than schools in Budapest. The highest mortality rate associated with chronic diseases in Northern Hungary is the highest across Europe. Emergency care is on the verge of collapse, but the Secretary of State is talking about billions of people pouring into hospitals. Instead of money, hospitals get budget supervisors. You know, Mr. Secretary, this is the collection of the last two weeks. We are no longer talking about the fact that there are no sterile gloves in hospitals or that patients should take toilet paper in, but about much more serious problems. Mr. Secretary, before you begin to mention the crimes the MSZP has committed in the last eight years, let me clarify a few things for you. The Fidesz claimed that we had dismissed 6,000 medical workers. On the other hand, 85 percent of the permanently unfilled GP and Dentist districts were vacant under the Fidesz governments. In hundreds of settlements, general medical care is not properly solved, as the greatest shortage is predominantly characteristic of remote, small-town regions, where it is not easy to pass through. Tamás Dénes, President of the Residents' and Professionals' Union, pointed out data showing that the level of early death is higher in areas where the GP practice is unfilled. The number of unfilled practices is increasing, most of the general practitioners are over 55 years of age, and a third is over 60 years of age. In emergency care, 25 percent of the required professionals are missing, and the terminations are regular. We have to make up for the extremely high shortage of professionals with carers. Fidesz claims that we have paid for health care, whereas private pharmaceutical expenditure per capita has now reached and exceeds public expenditure. Private health is flourishing at the expense of public health, as private health absorbs doctors and nurses from the public sector and their time, resulting in either less work in the public system or less rest periods. This forces people to look for solutions to their health problems in private health, for which Hungarian families often take credit. And we are listening, Mr Secretary of State, to Minister Kásler's recent statement that the best public health programme is the Ten Commandments themselves. The Ten Commandments have a few points, let me highlight one. Point 5 of the Ten Commandments: Don't kill! Mr Secretary of State, you are the biggest threat to Hungarian families and health in Hungary today. How many people have lost their lives in Hungary because they refuse to acknowledge the need to clean up health care! We do not need to withdraw funds, we need to strengthen that doctors and nurses leave Hungary, but put money into health care. We are listening to the fact that we are spending HUF 6 billion on another consultation. Secretary of State, when will the health of the Hungarian people be important for you? When do no more people have to die in Hungary because of you? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-09-24-14	Thank you, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2018-09-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I have found that, as if in opposition media, there were instructions to bring a negative report on Hungarian health every morning, even if people do work there that is superhuman, nurses should be charged even when there is no basis for this, doctors should be charged when there is no basis for it; just because you think that they can destroy the popularity of the government or some of the positive image of the government. Therefore, neither the work of doctors nor the work of nurses is sacred to you, but they try to generate some negative news for the government every day. Your prime minister said you could get out of here. On the other hand, we are raising salaries in health care, doctors have increased their salaries by HUF 207,000 in two years and nurses by more than 65 percent, precisely to find their future at home. You, honourable Member, have taken money from health care, from all areas. We gave you more money. You, for example, told me about the GPs. Now the funding of GP practices is more than 70 percent higher than in 2010. More than 70 percent higher is what the general practitioners get every month. In the last four years alone, the monthly financing of general medical practices has increased by HUF 520,000; in four years, it has increased by HUF 520,000. Compared to this, you would have introduced a visit fee for visits to the doctor so that patients would pay occasionally, especially elderly patients, every time they visit the GP. We didn't allow this, we canceled the visitation fee by referendum. I would remind you that you wanted to do two things in health care, to privatise at the beginning of your own government, and that this was swept away by the 2004 referendum, and then paid for health, which was swept away by the 2008 referendum; just to remind you when you went against the clear will of millions of people. If you look at the adopted 2019 budget law and compare what you have adopted by 2010 with the difference between the health lines, you will see that we are now spending HUF 650 billion more on health care every year than you intended in 2010. This amount is 1.5 per cent higher than GDP. This is not a cumulative, combined amount, it is a year's excess for healing, the difference is that, HUF 650 billion, this amount is 1.5 percent higher than GDP. [[11.40]] And you, indeed, honourable Member, have dismissed those 6,000 health workers, that 16,000 healing beds have been taken away, and all health workers have been taken away from those one month's wages, and those four hospitals have been closed, honourable Member, and they would have asked patients to pay daily allowances every night to get home from the hospital as soon as possible and not to heal there. As far as the individual cases are concerned, honourable Member, you have tried to tell some of the news, some of them are not told, so in your lips hospital, let us not forget, since you brought them up, the nurses and nurses went to another state hospital 10 kilometers away, and in part, the hospital staff will continue to treat the patients, the relationship at the Cardiology Institute has been settled, and as a result, all the scheduled surgery will be held in the coming months. In this, we also tried to play a mediator's role on the part of the Ministry, so that there would be no disruption in patient care. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to what you do not say about your own period, because perhaps you do not have such numbers, that in recent years 77 hospitals have been renovated, 54 clinics have also been renovated, more than 100 rescue stations are now state-of-the-art, but we have also built 31 full-fledged rescue stations, which means that most of the rescue stations in Hungary, more than 50 percent of them are new or renovated, and 23 of them have also been completely new in recent years. In addition to the construction of super-hospitals, we continue our development in 25 co-hospitals and 32 specialized clinics. As for your mockery and for your fellow Members on the Ten Commandments, honourable Member, I think it is worth trying if someone really lives according to the Ten Commandments, is his life really calmer. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Don't steal! There's a lot of noise, interruptions in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]] ; and, as a result of a more relaxed, balanced life, whether disease is better avoided. And stop what you've done to Miklós Kásler in the last few months! It is an excellent doctor who is a member of over 60 international medical companies. All representatives of the entire opposition do not have 60 such members! So he's been an excellent doctor; he's been running a national institute for 27 years. Hundreds of thousands of patients have been there during these times, and hundreds of thousands of people's institutions have been able to extend their lives for several years. He's equipped his hospital with state-of-the-art equipment, and they're not attacking him because he's not a good doctor. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because he is a good doctor, and he sees the healing and the spiritual foundation of healing, but he is attacked because he is a credible Christian and this Christian's policy, [[The president's ringing again.]] They want to attack his Christian character here, within the walls of Parliament. So all I'm offering you is one commandment from the Ten Commandments: "Don't lie." ....the commandment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-17	Mr President, Dear House, While the government, in the spirit of the year of families, is trying to explain its own certificate, at least exemplary, I should note that the day after the elections, my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm had already been given a visit to a paper on eviction and evacuation. And how campaign-like this government is, it proves that since May, more than 1,300 properties have been allowed to evacuate, throw family on the street, allow for a system that bleeds out of a thousand wounds, and for which the European Court of Justice now has a new opportunity for foreign exchange credit damage. I have to say, in itself, the fact that they can sue more widely than they have done so far would already impose an obligation on the government to create a new accounting law moving towards forintification at the time of admission, as has been done in all the neighbouring countries. But more importantly, you should stop evictions until then, so right now, today, we are going to announce an eviction moratorium, until the problem is resolved, so we are bound to a variety of deadlines. But if we are talking about many times that we are not necessarily achieving results with the mere opposition, we must demonstrate different degrees of resistance to you, against the loopholes that you have left open, I would like to note to you that in the last month and a half, members, representatives and activists of Jobbik have been invited to a number of evictions. Here, monitoring the legality of the events, we managed to stop the processes on several occasions, thus, along with my fellow opposition colleagues in Ferencváros, we managed to get a 30-day extension for the family, which is just enough to enable the family to settle its housing without the child being taken away by guardianship. We then paid our respects to Aunt Kati Soroksáron, where she and the family were exposed to maladministration, but the whole case, who had already been banned for years from exercising her profession, we do not even know whether her qualifications acquired here in Hungary are compatible with Hungarian expectations, so it has not even been checked in a satisfactory way, and the claim has been paid twice by the woman who lost her son, lost her grandson, and at night she goes to a multi-company because she is still trying to stay on her feet in this very difficult situation. It is perfectly natural for Jobbik representatives to appear on such a call, and we are very happy to see a tumultus, seeing cameras, seeing opposition representatives, this thousands of abuse enforcement officers decide to blink in the street and give a floor gas and go somewhere. The fact is, two to three months later, you can try this eviction again, until then we will expose further violations, and in a legal, legal way, but we will discourage all similar actors from continuing their activities. I would also like to note that the fortunate situation in Leányfalun was that it was not necessary for the better Members, the injured one himself was so clever, determined, in karakán, that he was able to hang the case that was bleeding from a thousand wounds in court, and I once again went to Sorokshar with my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, with other fellow Members; for once again he tried to remove the skeptical figure from her home, who could stay under all rights and must remain there. I would like to note that this week we were invited to Bajót, Szentlőrincata, essentially at the same time. We'll be at as many locations as possible, but the thing is, it's none of our business, Mr. Secretary. In this new space of action, it would be up to the government to legislate, to intervene fairly, to stop the mad tsunami of evictions and finally to achieve such a situation. By the decision of the European Court of Justice, by creating a new legislative framework, by a new settlement law, this whole gang of criminals should be accounted for, starting with the executioners who have overstepped, continuing with notaries who do not see their task, including those bank managers, financial supervisory staff and managers who have clearly failed to carry out their duties and including you; including those officials of the Balliberal governments who were there when this hell broke loose and did nothing, but who will, of course, tell us that the exchange barrier, which, on a voluntary basis, could provide air to some people, has not provided a long-term solution, or even with the National Asset Manager who had already been fed up, could not be explained by the fact that more than a hundred thousand people can be expected to be evicted, and could not be explained by the fact that since May 1300 people have been evicted, they emptied 1300 apartments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the year of the families, totally against everything that is in Hungarian interest. Therefore, our call is clear: have courage, act at last. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2018-09-24-18	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond to what has been said.
u2018-09-24-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, I am very pleased that the Member mentioned that Hungarian law, the tools of the Hungarian institutional system, is suitable for preventing the conduct of an enforcement case against the law if there is abuse in a case. What I would like to clarify, however, is that creating vain fantasies and rainbows for a decision in the midst of the masses of people who are in difficulty is irresponsible, frivolous, and in fact questioning your credibility. I hope that the congresswoman has actually read the decision of the Luxembourg court, which was about the fact that the Hungarian court is, of course, free to examine, within the existing legislative framework, the conditions under which the information was provided at the time of the contract, whether the debtors were properly informed. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The HUF 180 final repayment was good for Fidesz!]] This does not mean any change from the previous framework. In the context of a preliminary ruling procedure, the Luxembourg court stated what we already knew, and also stated what existing cases show that the courts are entitled and obliged to act in these cases, and that they decide to take any action that might lead to enforcement. [[11.50]] In this respect, neither the Government nor the Ministry of Justice nor even the Hungarian Parliament have the possibility to intervene in individual cases. Whether this entails a legislative obligation... [[Dr. István Apáti: It's a matter of good intentions!]] If we look at the issues of recent years, when we could say that we were able to help a million and a half foreign exchange-credit families by creating the possibility of early repayment, we introduced the exchange-rate barrier, as you rightly mentioned, Member - the National Asset Manager, which helped some 130,000 foreign exchange-crediters, paid back more than HUF 1200 billion due to bank settlements to those who had been inexactly damaged in relation to the calculation of bank instalments, bank charges, and the exchange rate calculation, and the repayments fell by about 25-30 percent to the debtors. I would also add that you, of course, did not support these measures. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] Technically, they were very passive a lot. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Again, you are not telling the truth! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really? Wow.]] they did not take part in the vote simply on the grounds that there was not enough, that they did not support the actions that were framed by the decisions of the law, the EU court, the Curia and the Constitutional Court, and that Parliament did everything to help the debtors. You've practically been passive in this, you've let down the people you've been hiding behind, and now you're trying to criticize the government. Neither the Jobbik fraction nor the MSZP were involved in this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We do not participate in treason!]] No opposition factions supported the Forinting Act [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] which finally freed these families from the trap of foreign exchange loans, is no longer at risk of exchange rate risk, and I note that thanks to the National Bank's move, these loans were converted into forints at exactly one moment. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: National Bank, of course!]] when the effects of the Swiss exchange rate on us were no longer to endure. Of course, you can criticize it, you don't have to praise it, but don't fool people, don't try to deceive them. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Who? Well, you're fooling people.]] They don't want to be framed in a legal system so that you can practically go in there and work it out. You won't solve it. The law will solve it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who makes the rules, do you think?]] If the law allows, it stops the executor, stops the court, and practically that is the case. [[Antal Csárdi: We are here to create the right! I'm sorry.]] What you're doing is a circus, it's not a right, it's not a follow-up to the legal system. Of course, this is probably not a coincidence, because after the elections in April, you are in a dead end, you tend to blame your constituents, as Congressman Mirkóczki did last week when he said that hundreds of thousands of people are voting on who will give you three forints more. That's the deep contempt of voters. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes! The deep disdain of the electorate! Exactly!]] No wonder you're keeping me here. They will practically get there as Ferenc Gyurcsány's party at the end, and they will be able to explain or organize these events again, which will then fail in the absence of public interest. I would like to emphasise that both the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government have always done everything in their power to alleviate the damage caused by the previous socialist-liberal eras by failing to act. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-20	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári applied for a pre-meeting speech, Member [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. István Apáti: Answers yourself!]] , on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party:. Open society or community society? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear House, In recent weeks, almost every newscast has reported that one Soros organization, Migration Aid, has become a party and intends to pursue the same goal under the name of the night guard. Neither did they hide the real intention of the transformation; this was created, on the one hand, for tax avoidance purposes, precisely in order not to have to pay the immigration special tax, because they read in the legislation that if they function in party format and not in association or other format, they do not have to pay this tax, so they do not have to make their own operation, their own funding, their own organisation transparent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] This organization cooperates closely with many other Soros organisations who have put transparency on their flag, but if the Hungarian State enforces this claim against one of them, which it enforces against all public authorities or other bodies, they are looking for a legal loophole at the moment. That the Soros organizations consider themselves above the law, it can't be new to us, I think everyone has seen this in recent years. Anywhere where we met organisations heavily funded by György Soros [[You mean Fidesz?]] In some cases, there has been a lack of transparency and a legal obligation to set the privileges due to non-compliance with other legal requirements. Remember, György Soros's letter of thanks, which he wrote to Bálint Magyar, for then, as he called it, György Soros himself called lex CEU was accepted, and thus the Soros University did not have to fulfil the conditions that all other foreign institutions operating in Hungary or Hungarian universities did. Everywhere, therefore, they seek to circumvent the law, including the establishment of a night guard. We have seen this at the Soros University, or we can also see that if Hungarian law is not suitable for achieving their goals, they are happy to turn to international forums, international courts, that, in addition to the less pure legal situation, they are trying to rewrite Hungarian legislation with the greater force of political pressure and media pressure, among the Hungarian laws that are detrimental to them, because they require transparency and fair operation. They feel above the law, they think outside the law that they can operate. There is, of course, no need for the night watch in Hungary, as the Hungarian people have given their opinions, whether in national consultation, in referendums or in parliamentary elections, about what immigration policy they would like, which is represented by Fidesz-KDNP, which does not want to organize, but to stop migration. That's why such an organization, the night watchman, would probably have a fence cutter near the southern border lock. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really? Oops!]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really? Oops!]] (Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm: Really? Whoops! As some plans for Frontex pose a threat if some of our sovereignty were restricted and the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, was restricted in Hungarian border surveillance. It can also be seen that the name of this organization, "the night watchman," is based on a lie, but a false one. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It hasn't been registered yet!]] Since they would not want to keep the border day or night, they would want to preserve the organisation of immigration and constantly get illegal immigrants into Europe, thus endangering Europe's identity, European security, European culture, and at the same time adversely distinguishing law-abiding, those who did not want to move to Hungary in recent decades would also be condemned. Everyone who adheres to the laws is therefore to be put at a disadvantage, according to the, night watch, and those who go against the law would be helped. We don't know where their name came from exactly, but we may be dealing with serial-dependent big Thrones fans who aren't living in reality, they're not dealing with reality, they're playing games with people in some virtual reality. If they think something is important, they are not interested in the opinions of the people, they are not interested in what the Hungarians want, they would only implement their own ideas sponsored by György Soros. We will stand in the way of this, so that migrants do not want to be targeted in Hungary. In addition, let me briefly draw your attention to another topic before the agenda: the constitutional protection of a marriage based on a lasting bond between a man and a woman in many countries in Europe. In Bulgaria, since 1991, Latvia, since 1992, Lithuania, the basic law also states, like other countries, that marriage comes with the free choice of a man and a woman, the Polish constitution has been there since 97; since 2006, the Serbian Constitution has confirmed this in a referendum in Croatia, albeit with low participation, but in a clear direction in 2013 [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. Intercom from Jobbik: What does Migration Aid have to do with this?]] In Slovakia, too, there is a fundamental law that states that marriage is a bond between a man and a woman. [[Intercom from the LMP lines: Tink-Tink!]] In Slovenia, a referendum was also two-thirds opposed to softening the institution of a marriage based on the free will of a man and a woman. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] In Hungary, too, there has been such fundamental protection of marriage since 2011, and we are eager to see whether, within weeks, the electorate will decide in this direction in Romania as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-22	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. On behalf of the government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Tuzson will respond. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bence to Bence!]]
u2018-09-24-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In Hungary, it is a constitutional rule that everyone must comply with the laws. This is no different with regard to Soros organisations, so it is important to pay particular attention to how decisive action can be taken against such circumventions if one wants to play out the laws. But let us look behind things and let me talk in a few words about what the ambition that George Soros refers to as an open society means, and what the consequences are for Hungary, or for those countries where this open society has been implemented at least partially or experimentally. [[12.00]] It is not a new phenomenon, it is a former phenomenon, because the idea of open society has been raised decades ago, and the essence of which is to try to solve the world's problems, the country's problems and Europe's problems by eliminating the nations, national values, national culture, and Europe as a mass, as a cultural mass, that transcends Christian culture, transcends national values and transcends nations. This thinking turns Europe upside down, turning it upside down, because it also results in a central decision being made in the decision-making system, and the countries only become executives of them, the nations become executives, the nations have no say in their own affairs. Obviously, there is also a strong economic impact and economic ambition, as standing behind a Europe without strong nations, in a Europe based on weak nations, it also means that it is possible to take over the rule, the financial and economic power over Europe's nations. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] We therefore strive and have always sought to make Europe a strong Europe based on strong nations, a strong alliance. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I love science fiction.]] This is what we consider most important for our part, because it is our fundamental duty, and it is the duty of all of us, because it is our duty under the Fundamental Law to preserve Europe's Christian culture. [[Zsolt Gréczy: There is no such thing.]] , We preserve the Christian culture of Hungary. If we look around Europe and see where such an open society was established on an experimental basis, in which cities, and what the consequences were, because one of the easiest ways to create an open society is to let people in [[Zsolt Gréczy: For a bond!]] those who are not connected to European culture and therefore this European culture can be dissolved and transformed. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: Unless they pay a lot.]] In cities where this has been achieved, where European culture has been dissolved, violence, violence against women have been overcome, violence against Christians and Jewish minorities has also been overcome. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Especially if Hungarian men rape Hungarian women!]] Security evaporated there, and instead of security, constant fear took over. [[Márta Demeter: What about the Istanbul Convention?]] This cannot, however, be allowed, and we must also prevent this from happening in Hungary, in this area, and we must also strive for Europe to be able to do so, the Europe we are part of, to be able to preserve this culture, European culture, Christian culture, Hungarian traditions, Hungarian customs and Hungarian social order in Hungary. This is what we want to strive for in the next period, and we Hungarians must resist all pressure in the strongest possible way. There are some issues in which compromises cannot be reached. In contrast to Hungarian culture, Hungary's interests cannot be compromised, so no matter how much pressure they exert on the country, this pressure must be resisted as decisively as possible. Our latest case, the Sargentini report, shows exactly what pressure Hungary is under and what lies they invent in order to increase this pressure on the country and to create a force that can break Hungary. We ourselves are convinced that there is no compromise on this issue. For the interests of Hungary, for the Hungarian culture, it is a pity that Hungarian opposition parties outside Brussels, abroad, in the European Union did not support the rejection of the Sargentini report. [[Márta Demeter: The settlement bonds are withdrawn, right?]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, Mr György Hubay, from the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech with the title 'Back-up after Salzburg'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Our borders have been guarded and protected ever since we settled in this country, a concept known since the occupation. Maintaining the border means protecting the nation from any outside interference, attack, violence. Border protection is not only a state's right, but also its duty. We in Hungary have maintained our state in this spirit for a thousand years. On the other hand, some leaders of the European Union today believe that the protection of countries' borders can and must be provided by other foreign forces. Fortunately, the idea of Macron-Merkel to resign from some of our sovereignty and to pass some of the border protection on to Frontex has now not gained ground in Salzburg, at the summit of the Heads of Government. However, we are convinced that the subject will not be lost, that the proposal will be put back on the agenda by the forces that will not accept defeat. At the same time, the Salzburg summit was important to us, because here we were able to express our position on this precisely. It is memorable that in Salzburg, the Prime Minister said that Hungary does not allow the right of border surveillance to Brussels and Frontex. Under no circumstances will Hungary give up its right to border surveillance, the Hungarian border will be protected by Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police. Why do we need to steal border protection by legal means? It's because we seem to be protecting our borders too well. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Ever since the fence was built, ever since border police protection, the country hasn't been a gateway. Illegal migrants cannot escape into our country. Well, that's what the pro-immigration European forces don't like. As it turned out at the EU summit in Salzburg, Brussels would like another pro-immigration proposal to be adopted by EU Heads of Government. They want to take away border protection, and they want to take away border protection to speed up the resettlement of migrants and bring in more migrants. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But their money is good!]] This is reflected in the Commission's plan published in the days of Brussels, which calls for a permanent resettlement programme, a legal migration route, border management and the examination of asylum applications in Brussels. In other words, they continue to push pro-immigration policy and to force their own will on the Member States. They want to remove the right to border surveillance from the jurisdiction of the nation states and any other decision-making powers relating to migrants. This proposal violates national sovereignty and threatens the security of Hungary and Europe. That's why we can't allow that. Hungary will defend its borders, as it has done so far, because it guarantees Hungary's safety. Our own border guarding rights and even our Schengen obligations. We are pleased that the EU summit is now addressing the issue of border protection. Recently, even the word "fence" was deleted from their dictionary. They have now come to it, at least in the thought that the protection of borders is important in stopping migration. Yeah, but here's the false intention. They don't want to block the road from migrants, they just want to check who comes and who doesn't. We say that no illegal migrant can come, and we will decide how to protect the country. We are able to protect our borders, and we have proved this: illegal migration has been stopped at the Serbian-Hungarian border. We'll do the job. Like I said, some people say we're too good at our job. We stick to the law of border control, that's our job. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. Let us not forget that state-level border protection goes back to St. Stephen. Our founding king organized the border counties for the lawn state border. Our history of a thousand years was based on the protection of our borders. If we had sold this, I would probably not be speaking Hungarian to you today in the Hungarian Parliament, in the building of the Hungarian Parliament and in the vicinity of the Holy Crown. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2018-09-24-26	Thank you, Congressman György Hubay. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. [[Márta Demeter: Why not the Ministry of the Interior?]] Here you go.
u2018-09-24-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The EU summit last week has indeed shown that the main ground for migration debate is expected to be border protection in the coming months. It's not a bad thing in itself that we can finally talk about border protection. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Finally? They've been talking about this for five years!]] Because maintaining security is unthinkable without protecting borders. So far, we're good. The problem is that the Commission envisages border protection by taking border protection tasks out of the hands of individual Member States. Now, that's not okay. Not for two reasons. On the one hand, we thank you, but we have proven that we can defend our borders on our own. A series of measures prove this. The physical border has been closed since 2015, even though many of you have tried to prevent it. The border lock stands at more than 300 kilometers, and it has become a symbol of security, an example for other countries as well. We remember well that Jobbik considered this border lock a failure. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: No! Dr. István Apáti: The Weed!]] The MSZP attacked him, DK went down to the border lock and tried to cut him off, and the LMP said it wouldn't do us any good. However, the border closure has proved its effectiveness over the last three years, and it has also changed migration routes. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And you have protected Europe at 170 kilometers!]] The physical border lock is also strengthened by a legal border lock. This was necessary because earlier we faced the problem that migrants arriving at border crossings had moved on before the examination of the asylum application, and it was not possible to know where they were, and this has resulted in a virtually uncertain situation. It is no wonder that the authorities in Germany have no idea where a significant proportion of immigrants arriving there are currently staying. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We don't know where our people are!]] Now, that practice had to end by legal means. We have also created the possibility for the defence to contribute to border protection, and the government has also introduced the concept of a crisis caused by mass immigration. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: But you have eliminated the border guard!]] and the penalties for smuggling have also been tightened. But that is not all, because we are well aware that in Hungary, too, there are a number of foreign-funded activist groups that weaken the protection of borders in different ways. That is why the Parliament adopted a law on the basis of which these organisations must make their foreign subsidies transparent. Everyone has the right to know why and how much these foreign-funded activist groups receive. An important tool for border protection is the Stop Soros legislative package, which has punished the organisation of illegal immigration. This package of laws has been attacked by immigration support forces, so we still have legal struggles ahead of us. So, these measures prove why we don't want to, why we shouldn't issue the right to border protection from our own hands. But the other reason why it is not worth publishing, why it should not be published, is that we cannot be sure at all that they want to protect these borders in Brussels at all. It is worth looking at how the President of the European Commission will comment on this issue, for example. He said immigrants don't get stopped by borders, walls and fences. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But that's not what you said, my friend!]] Or, let's say, a statement from the Commissioner for Migration. He said that it is not a good solution for European border protection if the EU Member States put up a fence at the external borders. So they don't think it's a good solution. And that's how they want us to trust them with border protection. In view of the fact that Frontex has not yet been able to protect a significant section of the border, it is safe to say that the transfer of border protection to Brussels is nothing more than a security policy gamble which we cannot agree to at all. Here we come to an important issue that is worth clarifying: if a Member State believes that it cannot defend its borders on its own merits, then it is worth providing assistance to that country, but it cannot be taken away from those Member States which are able to do so on their own initiative. Perhaps Congresswoman Varga-Damm just yelled at me and questioned the Commission's proposals. I also suggest that you read the resolution published on 12 September [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I've read it!]] the title of which is "The Enhancement of Legal Migration Opportunities." So they want to expand them. Blue card, joint projects with African countries [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But that's not a border lock, my friend.]] And that's where the resettlement quota is again. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But that's not a border lock!]] Read it, Your Honour. So, in the framework of the Dublin reform, we would also have the right to decide who is the immigrant and who is the refugee. [[Márta Demeter: How does the Ministry of the Interior feel about this?]] So we do not ask for this package in this form, because on 8 April the Hungarians made it clear that they wanted to live in a safe country. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I cheated!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The speech following today's agenda was submitted by Félix Farkas, a Roma minority speaker; Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Erik Fülöp, Jobbik; Dániel Z., Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Szabolcs Szabó, LMP; Krisztina Hohn, Member, LMP. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 1 February 2018 the National Election Committee received the following initiative on the declaration of Russian nationality as an indigenous ethnic group. In addition, Hungarian citizens, with our signature, will testify that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law No. 1 We meet the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of Section 2 and we declare that we belong to the Russian minority in Hungary. The law is 148. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, we initiate and ask the Honourable National Assembly to declare Russian nationality to be a national group established in Hungary, and accordingly we propose that the list of nationalities listed in Annex 1 to the Act be supplemented with the Russian nationality. To date, the text of the initiative. Dear Parliament, The initiative was taken by the National Election Committee on 16 February 2018 115/2018. By Decision No 1/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 March 2018, which, in the absence of an appeal, became legally binding. 1028/2018 on the results of the signature verification following the deadline for signature collection On 17 September 2018, the NVB Decision increased its legal force. The initiative is H/1515. can be found on the website by serial number. The initiative will be decided at a later meeting of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:18 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "When will the alarm ring?" When do they realize that an increasing shortage of workers is ultimately destroying family economies? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2018-09-24-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We are often told by you that Hungary is performing better, and that is often said by ministers, undersecretaries of state, and even by the Prime Minister himself. At the same time, your attitude can be summarised as feeling that they are only involved in success, because the least improvements in economic indicators are immediately expropriated, expressed as their own merit, but they do not take responsibility for the weakening of forints, the rise in fuel prices or the increasingly drastic shortage of labour. When we ask you about this, they point to international processes, to the European Union or to the Hungarian opposition in a rather shady way. [[12.20]] Moreover, we are talking about a sector where vocational training is very weak, and there are serious problems with the replacement of professionals, where the rampage of fidesz oligarchs is causing increasing damage and problems. It seems that the shortage of labour will strangle the Hungarian countryside and destroy small and medium-sized family farms that remain standing, as well as small farmers, if you will. If we look at the unemployment rate of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, we can see that last year unemployment was the highest in the country, with 8.5 percent, but the greatest problem in Szabolcs county is the labour shortage, one of the main causes of which is the very bad organisation of public work and the poor practice of public work. We're not saying there's no need for community service, we need community service before my words are misinterpreted, but that should be organized in a more professional way. I am thinking here that more mandatory or preferential elements should be included in the legislation in order to create a passage between public work and agricultural seasonal work or agricultural work in general, because as long as public workers often rake water with death - contemptuous courage, the farmer does not have a working hand to carry out, for example, fruit harvests. It would be good for the public worker, because he would make a lot more money than public work; it would be good for the large number of small and medium-sized family farms. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then it would be a laborer's hand; and the state would benefit, because it would not be necessary to keep hundreds of thousands of people in public work, only you so far, maximizing votes [[The president's ringing again.]] For reasons they didn't dare to touch it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] So I look forward to a meaningful response to what you intend to do with this situation. Thank you.
u2018-09-24-30	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. I'm sorry I rang the bell. [[Dr. István Apáti: It's okay. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] But it's two minutes. [[Dr. István Apáti: I solved it!]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas in two minutes.
u2018-09-24-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the same time, I say only statistical data for the first time, because I think those are the most important things, because growth is gradual in the Hungarian economy and last year has expanded by 4 percent. In 2018, the second quarter data show a similar increase, i.e. dynamic performance is not a result of one-off processes, but a sustained positive shift. The number of employees has risen to over 4.4 million. In May-July 2018, 715 thousand more employees were employed than during the same period of 2010. Employment growth is dynamic in agriculture as well, but labour competition is general and not limited to agriculture. The possibility of flexible passage proposed by the Member between public employment and agricultural seasonal work is still guaranteed. Nevertheless, our portfolio is constantly making proposals to ensure that the labour shortage in agriculture can be tackled as flexibly as possible. At present, the legislation is being amended in such a way that the public employee who works in seasonal work for at least 14 days in a month is also entitled to a job allowance of HUF 2000 per day. At the same time, Hungarian agriculture today is not sufficiently attractive for young career drivers, unfortunately its ability to maintain a workforce is low. The majority of young producers are taking over an existing economy, not new ones in the sector. One of our most important challenges is how we can encourage young people to put their lives in the service of Hungarian agriculture. We need to be able to show young people a career that gives them better living conditions and more income. We have to show them that the 21st century 100th-century agriculture [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is not equal to previous traditional agriculture. That is why the government is working, and I ask for the assistance of my fellow Member in this work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. I would remind my fellow Members that they have two-minute speeches, questions, answers, that is 120 seconds. [[Dr. István Apáti: Very little!]] Very little, but that's our legal framework. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Interior a two-minute question: It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2018-09-24-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that, drawing close to the day of the municipalities, at least at this time it is necessary to draw a certain balance between the operation of the municipalities and the resources provided by the State. We have also listened to the Secretary of State; indeed, if the government is doing better, the country is performing better, for three years now, then I think it could be much more appropriate for the municipalities. However, we see and see that, in the municipal funding system, settlements are supported almost year after year in the same form as some of the project indicators. To date, some tasks are not or are only financed to a minimal extent. For example, social and child welfare tasks, from which we can see that the state has almost completely withdrawn, leave it to the municipalities to provide funds in the framework of municipal aid. This could include the central care of the general doctor in the settlements below 30,000 people, the lawn master's service, the joint municipal offices and even the financing of library and cultural activities, which were not sufficiently funded. We have already made a proposal to amend the budget, which we have been doing for years, so that the funding of the municipalities will be greater, which happens to coincide with the findings of the National Association of Local Local Governments, which is that a significant proportion of personal income tax could be maintained, as it was before, and 80 per cent in the municipalities instead of 40 per cent of the car tax, both for infrastructure development and investment. Our aim is to ensure that settlements can manage in a predictable and predictable way, and this is no different than a fair, reasonable and just distribution of resources. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether, on the one hand, he supports our re-submitted proposal so that local authorities can obtain more resources and provide more resources, especially for small settlements, so that they can manage their operations. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-09-24-34	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2018-09-24-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There was a time when, I think, your good intentions and suggestions could have been very useful to the municipalities and the municipal system. It did not succeed then, since the municipal system was fully indebted and was on the verge of bankruptcy. It is enough to refer to the fact that in 2008 the county authorities were able to withdraw their earnings from the financing of the county municipalities with a noble simplicity, thus making the county municipalities virtually inoperable. All because you didn't win the municipal elections. The operation of the municipal system today, we can say that it is stable, the funding is based on three main bases. On the one hand, the funding of tasks provides the resources necessary for the task, on the other hand, the local authorities' own revenues; and municipalities which do not have adequate own revenue and are experiencing a momentary disturbance in the performance of the tasks can obtain resources from the extraordinary support of the municipalities. It can be seen that the number of municipalities requiring extraordinary support is decreasing very slowly, and it can also be seen that in the last three years, the municipalities have been closing with a positive saldo. However, there is a clear need for differentiation in the financing of the municipal system, in particular in the case of small settlements without revenue, a positive support is required. Local authorities under 10 thousand HUF/person's tax power will also receive aid of more than 100 per cent for each task, while municipalities with a tax power of more than 32 thousand HUF/person will not receive support or reduced support if appropriate. This balancing system works and helps municipalities operate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-36	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How many places are the safety of health care in danger? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I listened with interest to Mr Secretary of State's report on eight and a half years of infallible governance in health, but I should be allowed to nuance what has been said. [[12.30]] You know, recently, with severe abdominal pains, a man was brought into the Honvéd Hospital by his children, who were late to the O.R. after half a day's waiting. This 58-year-old father was lost the next day by his family. The experts only discovered a diagnostic error, so they concluded that the hospital was not to blame for his death. So the hospital made the wrong diagnosis, a man died, and he's not responsible. I only sincerely hope that the Secretary of State does not link him to my activities in 1995-2001, since I was in command of this institute at the time. However, the news is not only that someone dies in the E.R., but also that in their home, because after a bad diagnosis, they were sent home without care. This suggests that it is enough for the government that is destroying health care to have doctors and nurses somewhere, no longer dealing with it, and here is the biggest problem - whether those involved have any qualifications or qualifications in the field at all. According to an ÁNTSZ report leaked in 2015, there was only a hospital in Hungary that all its departments would have met the minimum conditions. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what is the situation today in Hungary? How many hospitals are there that meet the minimum conditions? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-09-24-38	Thank you, Congressman Imre László. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2018-09-24-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, opposition parties are trying to catch the government wherever they can, but I don't think it's right. [[Intercoms from DK and Jobbik.]] when you want to use human tragedies to capitalize on political capital. There are many ways to attack the government, but I don't think human tragedies are the main way to do this. You have also mentioned, honourable Member, that you were the head of this institute. You're talking about your former employees here, and for the sake of political gain, or political, I don't know what kind of manifestation you're accusing them of doing something unprofessionally or doing something wrong. You worked among these people, you were their colleague. [[A statement from the opposition: Aren't you ashamed?]] And now, leaving that facility for several years, he's been pointing back at them on a current case. [[A statement from the opposition: It's been 20 years, I'm just saying.]] Obviously, this is your job to judge whether this is the right or wrong thing to do, but I think doctors who work either in the E.R. or nurses who work in the E.R. or other departments should be recognised, which is why the government has done everything in its power to start the maximum wage increase programme possible for them. In two years, we have raised the basic wages of doctors, without on-call and other fees by HUF 207 thousand, and we are in a 65 percent wage increase process for nurses, the last 8 percent of which will take place in the following year, and we have also tried to make many other improvements not only in the countryside, but also in hospitals in Budapest. If I only look at the fact that within the framework of the programme.Üdő Budapest., which, for example, will be a very important source of equipment and equipment for hospitals in Budapest, how much is available in next year's budget, i.e. the adopted 2019 budget, we can see that the surplus that we can spend on instruments, information and much more in Budapest institutions, including those that are centre of gravity institutions. So I suggest that we acknowledge the work of this national center. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you must also acknowledge, honourable Member, that you manage tens of billions of forints more than your board of directors at the time of your command. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-40	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "Does the government take the necessary measures to ensure that the police don't leave the field in mass? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2018-09-24-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The government's irresponsible policy could bring down law enforcement. If they don't change immediately, the police force will be able to leave both the police and the prison and disaster protection in bulk, so there will be no police on the street to carry out public order and there will be no firefighter to put out the fire. After all, according to the current law, the cash redemption of the over-service will cease from 1 January 2019, so they will no longer pay overtime for the stock, it can only be issued on leave. However, as a result, police officers will be able to leave the field in bulk, and they will do so simply by not having enough people to organize the service in the event that it is due to be released on leave. This could compromise Hungary's security, Mr. Secretary of State. The law enforcement staff is understaffed by thousands of people, and there is a huge fluctuations, so many people leave the police force after a few months of service. In addition, 10-12 million overtime per year are worked by police, prison and firefighters in disaster management. In 2016, you promised that there would be no more overtime, and the shortage of numbers would disappear. It didn't, the situation got much worse, so we expect an immediate solution from you, not communication tricks, but proposals for a complex care of the state. And here I would like to ask you not to come with the 50 percent wage improvement, because we know that the average number of law enforcement agencies received HUF 9000 gross, so that's not true. We need an immediate solution. We have tabled a bill to ensure that overtime can continue to be paid from 1 January. My question is, do you support this proposal, do you accept this bill, and do you ensure that the police forces are able to redeem the over-service as of 1 January 2019. Thank you.
u2018-09-24-42	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs.
u2018-09-24-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You did not vote in 2015 or in 2016 or in 2017 for the next year's increase in wages for police officers. So what are you talking about, Congresswoman? [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] How do you account for these decisions? As to your questions: your claims were raised by an average of 50 per cent between 2015 and 2019 thanks to the new service law, 45 per cent of which has already been achieved. In 2018, it is possible to pay for performance benefits, and I will say this again 12 billion: HUF 12 billion is available, and as housing support, more than HUF 2.8 billion is available to professional staff in 2018. Today, more than 7,000 police officers serve than in 2010. It is not true, Congresswoman, that thousands of people are leaving the field, that the fluctuation prophecy you claim is not true. It is regrettable that you, by the way, are spreading rumors rather than supporting the police's salary increase (Márta Demeter intervenes). Madam honourable Member, when it was possible to do so. In the last eight years, the number of registered crimes has narrowed by nearly half, and the results of investigations have improved together with an increase in the population. [[A statement from the opposition. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] His trust in the police and the police regained respect for society, the respect you lost to the police in 2006. Before 2010, when your former party was in the government, there was a significant shortage of numbers, fluctuations, no wage increases, nor the redemption of over-services. [[Márta Demeter: There will be no police on the street! Do they pay overtime?]] You can't talk. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We will soon present a package of domestic law to the House. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which will be part of the 2019 salary increase, then you will have to come clean. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-44	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, 750 thousand Hungarian children live under the minimum living age, is this right according to the government? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-09-24-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The start of school is a difficult burden for the large majority of Hungarian families. We are at the end of September; you know, this is the month when they do not receive a family allowance for children, because the so-called double family allowance in August means only bringing forward the September bonus. Having children is a commitment to poverty, not only in September, but practically throughout the year. If you really want to know why no more children are born in Hungary, pay attention because I tell you: because Hungarian young people do not feel that they can raise one or more children at the right level. Today, in Hungary, childbearing means taking on poverty. [[12.40]] Although the Fidesz government forbade KSH to calculate a minimum of living, we know from the calculations of an independent research institute that 42 percent of children in families with children live below the minimum of living, 30 percent of the total population. So having a child increases the risk of falling below the minimum level of living by nearly one and a half times. By the way, that 42 percent is 49 percent for large families, 54 percent for villagers, and if we were to achieve a lower middle-class standard of living, two thirds and 68 percent of families with children would not be able to jump this. The Fidesz government's population policy, family policy and social policy have both failed. In vain, the government proclaimed 2018 for the year of families, if all they can do is give out free textbooks, which, by the way, are received with mixed feelings. According to the Dialogue, doubling the family allowance and introducing basic income would be necessary in order to tackle the crisis of families. My question to the Secretary of State is whether these measures are supported, or whether, according to Fidesz, it is okay to have 750 thousand Hungarian children under the minimum living age. Thank you for your reply.
u2018-09-24-46	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-09-24-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Based on all relevant data collections in Hungary and Europe, we can say that the number of families under the age of 18 and the number of children exposed to deprivation has decreased to a noticeable extent. You quoted the numbers of an organization called Policy Agenda here, not KSH, not Eurostat, but the numbers of this organization. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: KSH doesn't measure!]] Obviously, everyone can find an organization whose leader drives Bajnai Gordon-headed stuffed bear to sleep [[Defiance.]] and obviously to that age he is extremely loyal and tries to find numbers to justify why that period was better [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] However, these data are refuted by both Eurostat and KSH. Honourable Congressman, If you look at how many of them are even in the European Commission's statement, they are certainly not biased towards the Hungarian government - those who are less at risk of poverty or marginalisation, you can see that the number of those who are at risk of such extreme poverty has fallen to 375 thousand, so those who are in the most difficult situation. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: One too many!]] The proportion of children, of course, has been collected here, and there is a 9 percentage point decrease, i.e. by 40 percent, almost half, in the so-called AROPE statement since 2010, the number of children who are exposed to deprivation, obviously this number should be reduced even further. Only by referring to the last few years, honourable Member, you have missed the sign, because here, as I say, we can talk about a 40 percent decrease on the basis of internationally validated figures. And if you look at adults and the risk of material deprivation, you see that 1.3 million fewer people are exposed to that risk. This wasn't self-inflicted, which required an increase in employment, a reduction in unemployment from two figures to less than 4 percent. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I needed a reduction in the rent, family tax, salary increases, minimum wage increases, free textbooks, meals [[The president's ringing again.]] And I could tell you how much government action. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-48	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: "Can the Hungarian government count on support in the following period as well as domestic players in the automotive industry? It's an address. Mr Simon Robert Balázs has the floor.
u2018-09-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Győr, I know exactly that Audi Hungaria Zrt. has been operating in Győr for 25 years. how important and decisive our city is, the Western Transdanubian region and our country's economy. The company celebrated its 25-year anniversary last week, a quarter-century automotive history. With the establishment of the Hungarian subsidiary of Audi in 1993, he laid the first milestone of the global production network of the four circled brand. 25 years ago, the Győr plant started as a small engine factory with 700 employees, at 60,000 sq m, producing 2 thousand resources per day, which today emits 9,000 engines and 500 vehicles per day, after investments of more than 8 billion euros, employing more than 12.5 thousand employees on 5 million sq m.m. In the last quarter of a century, more than 33 million engines and more than 1.1 million cars have been made in Győr. At the 25-year anniversary ceremony, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó said that the value of automotive production in Hungary increased by 7 percent this year in the first half of the year compared to the same period last year. The value of automotive production has already reached HUF 4500 billion, while last year it was HUF 8000 billion. The automotive industry accounts for nearly 30 percent of the manufacturing industry's performance, where more than 167 thousand people currently work. As the Minister said, the modern-day industrial revolution is run by the automotive industry, and according to the world's leading automotive companies it is worth investing in Hungary. In the competition in the global economy, which poses a major challenge for economic operators and regulators, the key to success is to attract as many investment as possible in the new industrial era. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask whether you can count on the support of the Government of Hungary in the next period as well as the domestic players of the automotive industry. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-50	Thank you, Congressman Robert Balázs Simon. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2018-09-24-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Starting from one step earlier: In 2014 we focused our foreign policy on the foreign economy and the representation of Hungarian foreign economic interests. We were criticized for this at the time, although this does not really mean devaluing the classic diplomatic tasks, on the contrary: an appreciation of all these. We knew exactly how to achieve external economic success only if we complete the classic diplomatic tasks. The results and figures did not fail: 96 investments came to Hungary last year through our investment agency, 46 investments in the first half of this year; the total value of the 96 investments last year was EUR 3.5 billion and EUR 2 billion in the first half of this year; last year, 17 thousand jobs were decided and 7 thousand new jobs were announced in the first half of this year. Based on last year, Hungary was the seventh most popular investment site in the world based on the list of US multinationals, IBM. Now, the automotive industry, which you mentioned, of course, is the backbone of the Hungarian economy, one of our most important economic sectors: the production value of the automotive industry, no doubt, reached HUF 8000 billion last year, and this value also increased by 7 percent in the first six months of this year, so we have a good chance to make a record in terms of the production value of the automotive industry again this year. It can therefore be said that Hungary is a major European automotive power. Of course, this did not happen on its own; it was necessary to create an environment, for example, the tax environment, an economic environment in which it is worth investing. Hungary is currently one of the smallest personal income tax in Europe, the lowest corporate tax, and the social contribution tax is constantly falling. In addition, as you have pointed out, we have introduced dual vocational training in Hungary, and as a result we will be able to serve those who come to us with an ever better workforce. So in the new type of industrial revolution, we try to keep up [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This shows that multinational companies and their suppliers in Hungary are increasingly investing in R &amp; D. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-52	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When can the residents of Siófok, Balatonfüred and Keszthely, and the guests in the destination, be able to use the promised electric buses? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is a great pleasure for us that for more than three years now, the Balaton development programme has been announced, and in this destination, a number of infrastructure investments can be made; we are thinking here about the bicycle route, the railway development or even the exchange of works of art on the Sió channel. It was a pleasure for Siófok, Balatonfüred and Keszthely, when they saw in the government decision that these three settlements were also registered for the purchase of electric buses worth HUF 2 billion. [[12.50]] It's been a few years since this government decision came out. In February 2017, at the meeting of the Balaton Development Council, the Deputy General Manager of the Hungarian Tourism Agency announced that the purchase of electric buses will take place from domestic sources instead of a European Union source designation. Since February 2017, it has been a year and a half, but there has been no meaningful response, no substantive steps taken by the government, no electric buses were purchased, although the tender and the consortium agreement were submitted by the three municipalities a long time ago. I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State when people of Siófok, Balatonfüred and Keszthely can travel with electric buses, because it is important not only to talk about tourist destination, but it is important, in the spirit of environmental awareness, that electric buses be able to ride the roads, and that the cost reduction would be decisive for the municipalities. Thank you for your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-54	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-09-24-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for your appreciation for the work that the government is doing in the area of Balaton transport and under the title of Balaton development. There have been a number of improvements that have not been mentioned in recent years, so let me list a few, returning, of course, to the area of the issue; in the end, I would definitely like to mention that. The reconstruction of the line section Lepsény-Szántód-Kőröshegy and Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy started in September 2014. In the summer of 2018, express trains and Flirt-type modern motor trains were also on the southern shore of Lake Balaton. After closing the investments, the running time of the fast trains between Budapest and Siófok decreased by 25 minutes until Balatonszentgyörgy by 44 minutes. In April 2016, the renewal of the Kaposvár-Fonyód railway line began, resulting in a shorter one-and-a-half-hour journey time of 20-31 minutes. In addition, special attention will be paid to the further renewal of the vehicle fleet. Several railway stations in the Balaton area were renewed, the bus station was renovated first in Keszthely, then the bus and rail connections were revised, after which the train station could be renewed from nearly half a billion forints in 2017. In Balatonfüred, similar developments were made. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sure you didn't mean these indirectly insignificant improvements when you called for the investments you missed. However, in response to your question on electric buses, the woman, who already represents the answer, has already formulated her question, because in this case, the Hungarian Tourism Agency has taken a major role in this area, and at the moment the public procurement is being carried out with their assistance, and the development is taking place. I ask you to accept my answer, and sooner or later electric buses will be available in the three cities. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-56	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Mr Gyula Molnár, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What do you intend to do to ease the traffic chaos during the renewal of the M0 motorway and the Kelenföld-Szahalombatta railway section? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Molnár has the floor.
u2018-09-24-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. If we ask people in the capital by any means what their biggest problem is, then it is likely that transport, transport, can be found either in the first place or somewhere in the first three. This means that anyone who wants to do anything in the capital must be very careful and very careful about the issue of transport in any way. There are things that need to be done. The renovation of the Kelenföld-Halombatta railway, which was also mentioned in my question, must be done. The question is, how, how do we pay attention to what is happening in this area, in the areas where it is being used or in which it is concerned, whether they will be informed of the pace at which the work is being done and what alternative solutions can be found by those living there. Since I submitted the question, it has been dealt with by one of the commercial TV channels, and in this connection I know that due to the very large number of subcontractors, it is virtually unthinkable for the main contractor to know when the work will take place. So the Ministry is even more responsible here, even more responsible are the government agencies who need to bring these work together. Mr Secretary, my question is therefore very simple: why not during the summer period, do a work that affects those who take their children to school in an extraordinary way? What do you intend to do to alleviate traffic chaos in this area? And when can we expect a definitive and reassuring solution in this matter for the residents of the area? Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-58	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-09-24-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to answer your question in both areas. You must know that the M0 road is one of the busiest roads in Hungary. The southern sector's turnover has doubled in recent years, reaching 120,000 vehicles a day. The renewal of the track structure and the 30-year bridge was therefore not tolerated. For technological reasons, you can only perform the tasks with the complete closure of the left track. In order to deal with congestion at Szigetszentmiklós, we immediately used the available tools. Traffic-dependent traffic signalling programmes, police traffic management and reorganised public transport have helped transport since the beginning of September. Following the intervention of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, traffic on the Danube Bridge in Háros from the island of Csepel to the M1 motorway can no longer run in two lanes, but in three lanes. And in Massányi Károly Street in Szentmiklós, the motorists can again travel without restrictions, as the municipality has completed the road renovation work. By the end of September, the Hungarian Road also completes the roundabout. As far as rail transport is concerned, the Kelenföld-Százhalombatta line section has a new track structure instead of the old one, with the Angeli road passage being temporarily closed for a month. The transit of pedestrian and cycling traffic is ensured in the closed passageway, as is bus transport on both sides of the passage. Honourable Congressman, To sum up my answer, the contractors have taken the necessary steps to minimise the temporary inconveniences caused by the renovations, because, unlike you, the state of domestic transport infrastructure is really important for the government. For this reason, until 2022 we will spend a total of HUF 4000 billion on the development of road and rail networks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-60	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What prevents the government from recognising home care as an employment relationship? It's an address. Congressman Székely has the floor.
u2018-09-24-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, So far, more than 16,000 people have supported the petition to recognise home care as an employment relationship and to pay at least a minimum wage. Home care is hard work, it's hard to deny that it would be fair to pay for it. At the same time, it would be reasonable, since home care is beneficial to a nurse who can be at home among his loved ones, to the state, since care of those in need in the institution would be more expensive and emotionally beneficial to the nurse, who, in turn, suffers significant financial losses compared to taking up work instead. Therefore, recognising home care as an employment relationship and paying at least the minimum wage would partially compensate for this loss of income, all stakeholders would benefit. Compared to this, the highest so-called priority care fee is only HUF 52 800, which is hardly half of the minimum wage, which is HUF 92 thousand net. According to the calculations of the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility, this would amount to HUF 6 billion in additional expenditure for the budget compared to the current one, which is about half a stadium price, but it would not mean weekend entertainment for a few hundred people, but it would be easier for 12,000 homes and families. The home care fee is significantly higher than the current domestic fee, but also the required net minimum wage, in each of the neighbouring EU countries. I therefore ask Minister why the government does not accept the humane proposal that would not only facilitate the lives of the 12,000 difficult families, but would encourage more families to care at home, and certainly also free the budget. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[13.00]]
u2018-09-24-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Székely. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer on behalf of Minister.
u2018-09-24-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The question itself is important, because we have talked about it in Parliament in the last few weeks, and we have talked about it in the past. In recent years, the government has continued to increase, year after year, the prize it inherited in 2010. In fact, we not only raised the home care fee, but also introduced a new category, along with the fund and the advanced category care fee, we also introduced the high-level care fee, so that we can continue to increase the monthly fee for those who care for their loved ones and relatives at home. Thus, those who care for their most difficult family members, who are in the worst health condition, now receive HUF 58 680 instead of HUF 37,000, so the amount they can receive as a home care fee has increased by 60 percent. The government's intention is to increase further, so we continue to negotiate with several organizations, the National Association of Autistics, the National Association of People with Mental Disabilities and Their Helpers, the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of Organisations of Disabled People, the National Association of Deafs and Big Hearers, as well as the National Association of the Sietvaks. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Of these, MEOSZ commented after the discussions, and they said that it was a complex meeting, and they met with forward-looking proposals open to the future. During the autumn, the government will discuss this, so it will be decided in weeks, in months, and this year how the increase in the home care fee will continue in the following year or years, as in addition to the increases, there will be a pension supplement of HUF 50,000 for those who nurse their children at home for at least 20 years, and a health insurance contribution, which is also a period of service. But I would also like to ask you, honourable Member, what hindered the former MSZP-SZDSZ-age in introducing, for example, in 2005, what you are now demanding when, in a parliamentary vote on 13 December, the representatives of the Left specifically voted against this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. How does the government represent the interests of Hungarians working in Great Britain? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The time of Brexit is getting closer, and we know that it is becoming increasingly doubtful whether any agreement will be reached between the British Government and the European Union. What concerns Hungary on this issue is what will happen to the people, the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians working there, and the Hungarian students who had to emigrate to Britain as a result of your government, and who live and work there. The situation is that we do not know what minimum requirements the Hungarian Government has set for Hungarian citizens working there, and we do not know what strategy the Hungarian Government has for cooperation with Britain for the period after the Brexit. I asked specific questions earlier, and you responded with press releases. Now, just one specific thing, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to put it on. Although Theresa May has stated that those who have lived there for five years are entitled to the same social benefits as before, what about those who have lived there for less time? I would like to ask you that, although your Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not dealt with classical diplomacy since the Martonyi era, if, by the end of the year, you could tell the Hungarians working and studying about how the Hungarian government will represent their interests, that would be very good. We have no great confidence, but I would like to ask you what discussions the Hungarian Government has held at the various forums of the European Union on this matter, whether they may have had time for this in the very important external work of the past period. And if you'd already answered that, you'd also tell me if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has agreed with the Hungarians living, working, studying there at any level. Perhaps you could make time for this classic, important diplomatic work? And I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State, although I know that you have a background in communication, if you do not respond in a press release but in a professional way, it would be an honor to those Hungarian citizens working outside who have migrated because of you. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-09-24-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are definitely interested in a decent Brexit, a fair and fair Brexit agreement is in the interest of Hungarians working and studying in Britain, and Hungarian economic interest dictates this. It is also in the interests of the European Union as a whole, and there are also security reasons. So we're interested in a fair and fair Brexit, which is fair to everyone. What does that mean? A decent Brexit includes, of course, the preservation and protection of the rights of Hungarian citizens working and studying in Britain, of course, on a reciprocal basis. We are asking for and waiting for the same rights that the other countries of the European Union would grant to the British here. It is also in Hungary's interest to have a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between Britain and the European Union as a result of the Brexit negotiations, because otherwise the EU's competitiveness could be further weakened, especially given that the British economy accounts for 14 percent of the EU's overall economic performance. According to the Hungarian position, honourable Member, fair Brexit means economic cooperation between Britain and the EU, of course for the future, which would regulate bilateral trade, not on the basis of the World Trade Organisation's general rules, but on the basis of a free trade agreement. Hungary also attaches particular importance to the maintenance and continuation of security cooperation with Britain, especially with regard to the very serious security challenges facing the continent, Britain's intelligence and defence capacity, of course, cannot be ignored. Honourable Congressman, The possibility of a Brexit exit without agreement is to be avoided at all costs, but if such an unfortunate scenario were to be implemented, we would still seek bilaterally to ensure that the rights of Hungarians living in Britain are not taken away. Of course, as I said, we would aim for this on a reciprocal basis. Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, is in contact with the various ministers of the British Government, and also speaks for the protection of Hungarian interests in various EU forums. If you've been so eager to follow our press releases, you must have seen them too. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-68	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, During the summer season, a number of complaints were heard about the operation of the MÁV, of which the congestion on the flights to Balaton, the lack of air-conditioned wagons and the lack of information were the most characteristic. I also asked Mr Secretary of State a few questions in writing on this matter. Among other things, whether the MÁV is expected to concentrate flights during the next summer period, to add additional wagons when it is expected to set up and plan to build a more modern, transparent passenger information system on Balaton flights. The sentences in the reply received are unsatisfactory. You replied that the train running between Keszthely and Budapest every two hours has now been set to a one-hour time density, but people not only come to Lake Balaton from Budapest, but also from elsewhere. What about the other lines? If you'd be so kind as to answer that. He also replied that the trains included air-conditioned wagons. Does that mean that not all cars are air-conditioned? It is also being examined whether it is possible to extend the trains of express trains. I'd like to ask what's going on with this investigation. He also provided information that train info would recommend an application to travelers in connection with the information. My question to me is how anyone who doesn't use cell phones, online cell phones, can navigate. Especially when you're standing at the train station and the trains are being erased or the timetable changed. What kind of information system do you want to build for them? Thank you for your reply.
u2018-09-24-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes, this question and the answer to the questions have already been drawn up in writing. Still, I'll answer you again, see if I can satisfy your curiosity better now. [[13.10]] The Balaton region is an important tourism sector for the Hungarian economy, the cornerstone of further expansion, and I said in one of my previous answers that it is very, very important for the national economy to develop this area. This is why in 2016, despite the negative votes of the National Assembly, your faction and your quasi-party associates, it decided to provide a total of HUF 365 billion specifically for investments in Balaton by 2020. From 2010 the Balaton transport development was served and served by a total of 456 billion forints from this framework and other sources. A significant proportion of this huge amount has been spent on rail modernisation. From Kelenföld to Székesfehérvár to the southern shore of Lake Balaton, up to Balatonszentgyörgy, the total value of the course development has been 284 billion HUF. This is the most busy line, by the way, and you probably know it, because there has been a lot of development money; that is why you ask another question, but of course, taking into account the principle of gradualness and opportunities, such as what you have mentioned is that, instead of a two-hour traffic period, trains with air-conditioned cars are now running on this line every hour from Budapest to Keszthely. Further improvements will continue in line with the expected growth in travel needs. Contrary to your claim, passengers can not only learn about the information board placed at all stations and stops, but also from the online Train Info app, as well as about the rules and conditions of the train transport in Balaton. I recommend considering all possibilities when you wish to learn about Balaton traffic, the Balaton schedule. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. How would Hungary's future be if its own border protection system was abandoned? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has launched its defence mechanisms against illegal migration for the first time in Europe. As early as 2015, the government noticed that the uncoordinated influx of hundreds, thousands, and finally tens of thousands of people arriving first was not good for our country or for Europe. Let us remember together the terrible times when tens of thousands of undocumented people destroyed our lands, left behind a wasteful, sometimes contagious environment, and occupied our public squares, our roads, our highways. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who was on the government?]] The Government of Hungary had no choice but to establish the legal, technical and physical protection system of Hungary with immediate effect. The protection of our country and the external borders of the Schengen area was not only a series of measures guaranteeing the security of the Hungarian people, but also of the European people, to which the Hungarian people have sacrificed hundreds of billions. Dear Secretary of State, However, the multi-annual, successful and effective fight against illegal migration seems to be lost. Brussels would tear down our well-designed and proven border protection system overnight and impose on us the failure of border protection policy in all other parts of the European Union. Although there is increasing indignation across Europe, the current European Union plan would still force Willkommenskultur in Merkel to force the Member States. Dear Secretary of State, The man of everyday life is very concerned about international events, and he can only trust that Hungary will be able to continue to stand up for the protection of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. However, the question arises as to how Hungary's future would be if its own border protection system was abandoned. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, and the security of the Hungarian people is the first for the government. Hungarian people have been authorized to defend the country, we have accepted the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Stop Soros Act package, and we have extended the crisis caused by mass immigration. The government is committed to border protection, strengthening police and further improving public security. Today Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe affected by illegal migration and terrorist threats, thanks to our excellent police officers. They are attacking Hungary because they want to take the gate key from our country. We won't let him! The Hungarian government is committed not to hand over the right to border surveillance. The most important issue of the future will be border protection and migration, and accordingly, the political forces in Europe today will be divided into two camps: supporters and opponents of immigration. Hungary is being attacked because the Hungarian people have decided, we will not become an immigrant country, we will protect our borders and the Schengen border. We made it clear who we want to live with and who we don't want to live with. We're not gonna let anyone take a jot of our border guard's rights away from us. We know border protection better than anyone in Brussels. Our borders are protected not only by professionals, but also by patriots, and they are the strong bond of Hungarian police and soldiers. Hungary stands by its EU obligation and Europe's defence, we will continue to protect the EU's Schengen border from illegal migration, and we will not hand over border protection. Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people and the security of Hungary are our first priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-76	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Family Friendly Government? Why are young dads with student loans discriminated against? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-77	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has already initiated several initiatives in 2014 and since that time, so that the State will release all or part of the student loan debt from the children. It is a good thing that this better proposal has recently been heard, but it is also incomprehensible and regrettable that this solution was born only in part and thus in a distorted way. The original right-wing proposal does not contain any discrimination within the family, so we would extend this measure to parents as well as mothers. Unlike the current regulation, which provides support for women with student loans, women who have a second child, who release half of their debt, while for a third child the total amount. Dear Secretary of State, We do not understand the existing discrimination, because if the father of the unborn child pays the student loan, it will undoubtedly take money from the family register in the same way, although it could be otherwise, but you didn't take them into account. It also follows from the current unfair regulation that you are not aware of the situation where, for example, parents have divorced or tragically died, and because of this, the man raises his children and he has to pay the student loan. Where's the family-friendly government at this hour? In addition to Jobbik, HÖOK and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights have found that the legislation in force is discriminatory because it does not apply to fathers with student loans. Therefore, taking into account the basic Commissioner's report, we are also asking the government to reconsider the conditions for the waiver of student loans, broadening the current framework for this benefit. Dear Secretary of State, I ask why young dads with student loans are discriminated against. Taking into account the basic Commissioner's report, will they amend the relevant regulation, thus eliminating the current unreasonable, unfair and discriminatory situation? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important for the government to help families in as many ways as possible, which is why we introduced the proposal, introduced the discount that we can help mothers and their families through them, and we can help them to ensure that if the mother graduated from school and did so from student loans, she will now release half or all of the money from the state after her second-to-third child commitment and pay the family instead of the mother. I think it was an important measure, and it is a good thing that we were able to provide budgetary coverage. We regret that neither its budget coverage nor the economic measures that led to it, that the Hungarian state now has its funding for this, Jobbik and opposition parties did not support it. It is also a little strange when you say that when there is no discount, it is a legitimate situation, when mothers have a benefit, that is an illegal situation, as if it were not possible to support mothers in Hungary. We also supported the mothers who raised the child when we introduced 40, and you didn't support it either, and we still support the mothers who raised the child when we release the student loan in whole or in part when they are having a child, precisely because we believe that mothers have multiple burdens, not only are they able to work, but they also naturally have more to do with child rearing. [[13.20]] We would like to express their appreciation for this plural burden, plural sacrifice. And it was also recorded in the Fundamental Law, for this reason, in the 15th century. Article 2 (5) states that the State is entitled to take specific measures to protect women, and we can even say that it is obliged to take specific measures to support them. This is also an individual measure that we are trying to put mothers in a better position. You can't follow this principle anywhere, either at 40, or here, I see. Fortunately, however, many people could use it if I only looked at the first semester of this year: we were able to help 1300 mothers, with an average of nearly 1 million forints. We're glad we can do this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. How much of the government's politically appointed party soldiers would like to fire in order to reduce bureaucracy! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-81	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now in the public discourse that, as of 1 January 2019, some 40 percent of the central apparatus, called bureaucracy, will be laid off under the heading of bureaucracy. My fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, asked the Minister a written question, all the more because he wanted to ask how much cuts in bureaucracy could be made in the ministries, in terms of secretariats for ministerial, secretary-general, minister's office and political and political chief advisors, and he received the following in response, and I quote: "I would like to inform you that the statement on this issue does not have any basis of reality, so that no further conclusions can be drawn from it. However, stakeholders know exactly what the government is up to, as well as trade unions have repeatedly pointed out that it would be good to be informed on time. At the same time, it can also be seen that it has been possible to read in the press for weeks that the ministries are specifically planning downsizing around 40 percent. The wallet managers have mentioned this one way or another. In fact, the President of the State Audit Office, László Domokos, in a previous parliamentary expo, said that they would provide cooperation and job support to around 10 percent of SAO employees. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to present and make available to everyone the impact assessments by the government on the basis of which layoffs in the public sector are planned for January next year. In fact, the government should already inform the workers involved in the firing process, but it still does not show the principles on which they will be laid off. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2018-09-24-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Árpád Potápi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-24-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In a democracy, at the beginning of each government cycle, it is natural for the new government to review the structure of the administrative apparatus, in which ministry how many people work, in what job and in order to provide efficient and rapid public service, to see how much apparatus is needed. This work, this review is still under way, the details you have asked for, drawn up and reviewed, so that we can assess how many public servants are needed to carry out the current tasks and responsibilities, and where bureaucracy cuts allow for a reduction in the number of people, we would like to do so in the next period. With the expected reduction in the number of staff, we aim to create an even more efficient public administration where civil servants will be able to work at significantly higher wages than at present. If necessary, we are willing to transfer additional resources from the budget in order to be able to pay higher wages and to make wage setting much more flexible than at present. We remain in favour of civil servants, against the policy of the socialist government, when a month's wages were taken from public sector workers. The government that took office after 2010 and has been re-established has launched a comprehensive wage increase programme in the public sector, raising wages in the healthcare, education, law enforcement or territorial administration system. We would like to continue this work now. I would like to reassure the Member that we are working with responsibility for the benefit of the voters. And for the details, please wait a little longer, we'll give you these. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-84	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why are you taking back half the firewood application?" It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-85	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, There are many reasons why we should talk about firewood, because we could approach it from the fact that the Democratic Coalition is the most European party in the world. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who would beat the Prime Minister's head with a stick, European? Is this Europeanism that beats you with a stick?]] He considers the issue of renewable energies important, and in this context we could talk about it, whether by asking Mr Kaderja what he thinks about it. But that's not the point, because the firewood is not to be burned in the power plant right now, but you, the government, in the heat of the campaign, have found that there is little honey on the string, so they put a little blame on it and promised a reward of 12,000 forints to those with a gas bill. They just forgot that there are hundreds of thousands, over 600,000 families in their households that have other materials, traditional materials, including wood. Therefore, in order to remind you of this, many of us have demanded that you deal with this. The deadline for applying for this will expire on 15 October. It is very important to remind everyone that, yes, there is now an opportunity. However, several of you have indicated that you are about to take back this possibility with such a small trick, since the delivery fee is requested from the parties concerned. Some of this cost 6,000 forints. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether they really want to make every firewood applicant pay for delivery. Is it too much to consider that the needy ones are receiving a third of the benefits, even compared to the others, and they are trying to put the most needy in a more difficult position in this way? Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it's a very good thing that the world is developing, and it's a very good thing that people themselves are developing. That's why I think it's very important and very good that your sensitivity and attitude towards reducing costs have improved, improved, and now you realize that everything you've done, when you've been on the government, with people's livelihoods, has been outrageous, and it's not a coincidence that people have decided to do what they did in the elections. [[Gergely Arató: What about the firewood application, let the Secretary of State talk about it! A statement from the opposition: And the stolen bills! The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, The government has always been sensitive to the fact that people who live in particularly difficult situations live alone, live in farms, live in other places where community solidarity is smaller, to operate a social firewood support system with the municipalities for the winter period. And this system worked well, and it works. And it is true that, as a result of the economic performance of the country last year, for this year's heating season, we will grant a grant of HUF 12,000 to all families; those who heat with fixed gas could have been described from the gas bill, and those who heat with firewood will receive this amount of aid in the form of vouchers. [[László Varju: Will they get it?]] We have asked the municipalities to help us do this, and the municipalities will collect the beneficiaries and they will participate in the allocation of vouchers. That messy line of sentences you've been saying here is that it's a support system that starts only after October 15th. [[László Varju: But this year, right, Secretary of State?]] In that we would have taken something away right now, which in itself shows that you have no idea what you're talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gergely Harvestó: You can't heat it with gibberish!]]
u2018-09-24-88	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Russian democracy, Chinese environmental protection? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[13.30]]
u2018-09-24-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The only meaning of the Orbán government's much - mentioned Eastern opening would be to learn from the Eastern countries what is worth, such as diligence and respect for the elderly. However, you want to import not only the democracy you like from the Eastern dictatorships, but also the quality of the environment. We have now come to the point that we are not only one of the most polluted Member States within the EU, but also in a global comparison. According to recent data from the European Court of Auditors, the air is now better in China and India than in Hungary. The Hungarian population loses 1.8 healthy years per hundred inhabitants each year because of the government's neglect, which is twice the EU average and is worse than the indicators of China and India. For a decade now, the European Commission has been pursuing infringement proceedings against Hungarian governments because of the persistent and continuous excess of pollution limits, the excessive number of smogos days. However, you do not seem to be interested in the problem, because in the next year's budget only the price of a family house was provided to reduce the most dangerous PM10 pollution, even though some stadiums could achieve tangible improvements. Please inform us when, according to the government, we will be able to reach at least Chinese air quality and when substantial and effective steps will be taken to prevent thousands of deaths associated with air pollution and hundreds of thousands of diseases. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-24-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to inform the Member of the fact that in the European Court of Auditors' study referred to it there is a table showing the figures for 2012. Since 2012, Hungary's air quality has been continuously improving, but we can say that in 2012 it was no worse than Indian or Chinese air quality. More recent WHO review data for 2016 show a more realistic picture of these countries. Of course, we are aware of the negative effects of air pollution, which is why in recent years we have taken significant steps to improve the situation. At the same time, air quality development involves a number of independent factors in addition to local emissions of air pollutants. Hungary receives 30 percent more air pollutants from beyond the border, even from Asia than it does. Moreover, due to the country's pelvic character, air pollutants are more easily enriched and settled in the pool during the winter period. Some of these episodes may result in annual overshoots, thus showing a more negative picture of the country at statistical level than the real situation. Nevertheless, we will take all possible measures to improve air quality. We launched a sectoral programme for reducing emissions of small particles years ago. Since the launch of the programme in 2011, a number of measures have been implemented in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors worth HUF 160 billion. A new national air load reduction programme is currently under way to limit emissions of all relevant air pollutants. I am convinced that Hungary is on the right track to reduce environmental harm. I therefore suggest that, instead of being alarmed by misinterpretation of statistical data, I would suggest that the Government should support its work in the interests of the people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-09-24-92	Thank you, Mr Deputy State Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: How long are the waiting lists in the Fidesz dimension? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Everyone knows that the government has spent HUF 5 billion recently on reducing waiting lists in bed rest facilities. In addition to waiting lists, there is another serious problem that we talk very little about, these are the booking lists that appear in the institutions' specialist clinics. In my constituency, more and more people are looking for me with the problem of a simple cardiac or urological reservation taking more than six months. In addition to the public supply system, a parallel supply system, this is private health. Unfortunately, many people who live on average pay have to use this private health system to try to make a proper diagnosis with appropriate diagnostic tools. We are talking about average salaries, not 5 million HUF ministerial salaries. Then, when you have these diagnostics done, you go back to the clinic, wait several hours, and then the man who fell off the street goes into the wild. During the past few years, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán went into an office and asked those standing there if he could go in. Of course, they let him in, didn't they, who dares say no to Prime Minister? They didn't dare say no to Kádár and Rakosi at the time without consequences. But let's look at the facts. These statistics, which you're going to give me on the roster, are incorrect data. The head of the institution is cosmeticizing the data that reaches the bureaucrats, the bureaucrats behind the desk, and you're singing a hymn of praise, and they're saying that the booking lists are in order, there's no such waiting list. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to reduce it in the past few days. If we look at your dimension, we'll have to wait a month or two. I'm asking you to go down to the simple health care system, not to heal yourselves at the Honvéd Hospital. Make an appointment at the clinic in a rural town, and then you'll see what the real health care system is like. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] today in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the beginning of your speech, I thank you for the acknowledgement sentences on behalf of the Government. I would like to add that the government has not allocated HUF 5 billion to reduce the waiting lists, but the government has committed HUF 5 billion a year to reduce the waiting list in recent years. This meant a total surplus of HUF 25 billion in the budget of recent years, a surplus that Jobbik itself did not support in the Finance Act. If you look at the overall result, we can see that while there were 70,000 people on the waiting lists in 2012, this has now fallen below 28,000. What it means in the waiting period for the actual surgery, we can still see that this surplus of HUF 25 billion has made a positive difference here. In the case of cataract surgery, the actual waiting time is not only what the system shows at the beginning but also how much time the patients actually spend - it was 90 days in 12 and now it has been reduced to 45 days. In the case of hip replacement surgery, it was 180 days, which was reduced to 104 days. For knee replacement surgery, it was 241 days, which was reduced to 137 days. So the time that patients have to wait for has been reduced, felt, nearly half, half, or more than half. Obviously, there is a minimum period that always exists because of the operation of the system, but these have nevertheless been greatly improved. The decline in the 38 percent waiting time, say, in the case of knee replacement surgery, brings the 9th best result among European countries, but in hip replacement surgery we are also ranked 8th if compared, so there are only seven European countries where there are less to be expected. Or if you look at cataract surgery, the Hungarian data is quite good, 45 days [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In the Netherlands, it is only 35 days, but in England, for example, 72 days. Hungarian data is better than that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-09-24-96	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, Can we expect an effective step from the government to reduce plastic waste while finding a solution to the problem? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For many years we have known that the use of plastic bags is not a good solution in terms of product storage or waste management. In addition to damage to natural life, plastics enter the food chain, food, and drinking water, thus endangering our health. They share views on how much packaging is used only in the domestic retail trade. [[13.40]] According to the government, we use more than 80 plastic bags per person each year in Hungary, I note that this is a very underestimated number, but still it means almost a billion bags, a significant part of which immediately becomes waste. However, experience has shown that we use more than that, because even selective garbage transport services mostly require plastic bottles in plastic bags or even compostable waste. Refundable bottles and packing materials have expired according to domestic policy. Compared to this, it is welcome that, in line with previous proposals from the LMP, the competent wallet would increase the product fee for disposable plastic bags and the circle could continue to expand with disposable plastic devices. Secretary of State, I am asking what kind of increase in product prices can be expected in the area of individual packaging materials. What would you like to use the growing product fee revenue for? What kind of packaging is it recommended to replace plastic bags? Is there any domestic innovation for this? What about the also big problem pill bottles and non-refundable bottles? Do you have a strategy for this? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-09-24-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary took decisive steps in 2011 to reduce the number of plastic bags, years ahead of the European Union's regulation. Thanks to effective measures, we have been given free plastic bags in very few shops since then, and the distribution of plastic bags has been reduced by approximately half. The next stage of the measures will be the draft environmental product fee bill, an amendment. I agree with you that we need to reduce our use of approximately 80 plastic bags per person to a lower level. However, the government wants to do this precisely and effectively. Your previous bill, which you referred to in your question, would only have acted against plastic bags classified as packaging material. However, it would have left unscathed, but much more dangerous, light and very light bags untouched. On the other hand, we want to significantly reduce the turnover of this product range and even a wide range of single-use plastic devices. In order to achieve this, as has been said - we will propose an appropriate increase in product prices, which is currently under discussion, but in order to achieve our goal, so I stress that the idea that we will be able to get to know you, everyone, is being developed. We expect the increase in fees and the dissemination of an environmentally friendly approach to help citizens make sustainable consumption decisions, choose recyclable or less environmentally responsible products. We all have the opportunity to replace harmful plastic consumer goods with environmentally sound products in order to protect our health and the quality of life of future generations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice:. What is the government planning to do if the EU reduces EU funds because of the amazing level of corruption? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, 22 EU Member States have already joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office under the enhanced cooperation procedure; Hungary is not the only one from Eastern Central Europe outside Poland, despite the fact that there is a higher level of corruption in Hungary than ever before. At present, the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office would only cover EU funds, i.e. participation would not undermine our national self-determination at all. In Hungary, much of the EU funds are stolen, and the Hungarian prosecution does not investigate in countless important cases. The problem is that, in the next seven-year EU budget period 2021-2027, the rule of law mechanism could be introduced in relation to the allocation of EU funds, with clear negative consequences for Hungary, as the government and Fidesz-KDNP are crushing the democratic institutional system. Corruption in Orbán is a threat to EU support. The financial sanctions already foreseen in the current cycle can be affected by Hungarian settlements, businesses and our honest compatriots. Jobbik believes that instead of serving friends, employment-enhancing goals, health, education and the social sphere should be the focus. Although, in order to join the organization, Márton Gyöngyösi and Gábor Staudt also submitted a proposal for a resolution with my fellow political groups, we do not have any illusions, we see that the government is afraid of this, so Jobbik will fight with all the possible means at our disposal to reduce fraud and misuse of EU funds in our country. Dear Secretary of State, Does the government do anything to protect EU funds, such as Hungarian families, or does it continue to focus solely on the interests of families associated with you? What cuts are they going to make if the EU funds available to Hungary fall significantly? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, I believe that there is a fundamental error here, not corruption, but your text on corruption, since you cannot send meaningful messages to the electorate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was very clever! That's what you said!]] But back to the subject of the EU Prosecutor's Office itself: in practice, as you mentioned, there are 28 Member States of the Union, and 22 of them have joined, so Hungary has not raised any objections to this cooperation in itself. We basically supported the idea. We have made constructive proposals to develop the relevant rules of the prosecution, but they have been ignored. They did not take into account the fact that we have been legally guaranteed to place the prosecution directly under Parliament for a long time, unlike the other Member States in which the government is subordinate, and on behalf of the prosecution, I have no obligation to reject it, but the work of those prosecutors who, I believe, have done outstanding work in law enforcement over the past few years and decades and enforce Hungarian criminal law would make it part of an open political act. I don't think it's useful. The other is that you are here in the interest of the European Union and in the interest of pressure to support immigration. [[Tibor Bana: I was talking about reducing corruption, no immigration!]] It is very interesting to recall that in January 2011, your party president, Gábor Vona, spoke about organising a referendum in order to leave the Union, your representatives burned an EU flag. Think, by the way, about the fact that, after all the changes you're making here, how credible is the kind of suggestion that you're giving us here by neglecting the facts at all? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Z. Carpathian Daniel: You can't really say it either.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Long live corruption! Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Peter James, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance: "When does the government break up with the policy of low wages? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The wages in Miskolc will grow by breaking a national record. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying this. That's what the mayor of Miskolc said about two years ago. If the mayor had been telling the truth, then obviously we could talk about the fact that finally the wages in Miskolc and Borsod began to catch up with the Hungarian average, but the latest figures in the HCSO do not show this, on the contrary. According to KSH, the gap between Hungarian and Borsodi average wage has increased by nearly 20 percent over the last two years. Do you know what this means, Mr. Secretary? This means that Miskolc and Borsod are beginning to break down fatally, and this problem can be improved not by saying big things, but by raising wages. Jobbik created the concept of the Wages Union precisely so that this substantial wage increase would start in Hungary, especially in the break-down regions, but you chose a different path. You have chosen the path, which has resulted in Hungary now being a host in terms of wages among the Visegrád countries. Because while the surrounding countries are trying to catch up, your prime minister said in front of Saudi investors: it is worth coming here to invest, because our workforce is remarkably cheap compared to its quality. Then, on what grounds did László Fat refuse to raise wages? The people here will settle for less than he said. Then came Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, who also voted not for the wage increase, but for Ukrainian migrant workers. Then came the Fidesz-near Market Zrt. C.E.O., who has already said that in three to five years, Pakistani, Indian and Vietnamese migrant workers will be here. There are government plans here, please, just don't raise the wages. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: when do you intend to break off with the policy of low wages, as part of which, by the way, the cafeteria is being taken from the workers? When do they start a substantial wage increase? And finally, the question is, do you really agree with the mayor of Miskolc? Do you think the wages in Miskolc are rising at a record rate? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.50]]
u2018-09-24-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! There's never been, there isn't, and there won't be such a government intention, as you have said in your question, so I'm going to have to reject it by default. It is quite clear that wage increases and wage developments in the market economy depend on economic opportunities, and wages are essentially determined by the bargaining of market players, employers and workers. Of course, the government has a say in this, directly by setting the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. He also referred to cafeteria benefits in a thought. The cafeteria benefits were taxed on more favourable terms than wages, and, at some level, they obviously complemented the benefits, but you agreed with that, as I could conclude from the rest of what you said that the objective to be achieved is to provide workers with a decent wage that can be used freely as compensation for their work. The government still does not support the Wage Union initiative, but rather the longer-term wage agreements, for which there is a concrete example, and employers and workers agree on this and the creation of career models, which also show positive results. And the specific example of Borsodi: thanks to the significant increase in the minimum wage last year and this year's guaranteed minimum wage, wages generally increased in less developed regions, so in the first half of the year, in the region mentioned by you, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county 13,4% or in the nearby Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county by 12 percent, i.e. above the national average. In addition, it is clear that the average income in these counties is indeed lower, but if the catch-up continues, we hope that it will soon be balanced. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-108	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. Dear Parliament, Félix Farkas wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question of ethnicity:. Was it legal to adopt the Sargentini report? It's an address. [[Morai and the public in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Speaker, you have the floor. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] Fellow Members! If I may ask, Mr Spokesman has been given the floor.
u2018-09-24-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Maybe it's funny for you, not for me. [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: It's despicable!]] In all cases, in my 24-year-old municipal representatives' practice, it was right that in the decision, the abstentions of the Members present strengthened the non-votes. I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether the adoption of the Sargentini report was regular and legal [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Are you serious?]] Because, in my opinion, ignoring the votes that were withheld was neither legal nor legal. [[A statement from Jobbik: Did Fidesz write it? It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask you this because the domestic Roma... [[Interviews from Jobbik: Which ministry gave it to you?]] I have listened to you so patiently, gentlemen.
u2018-09-24-110	Fellow Members! Please respect the speaker so much. You've been spoken to, Mr. Speaker. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-111	Thank you. I ask this because the Sargentini report contains serious slippages in relation to Hungarian Roma nationality, which do not correspond to reality, so I will report on the real situation of Hungarian Gypsy in my speech after the agenda. I await your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]]
u2018-09-24-112	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Deal it out!]]
u2018-09-24-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, [[Sándor Burány: This is a difficult job!]] We all know, even from the proposal for a resolution before this House, the shameful circumstances under which this report was drawn up and its adoption. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: You would have at least read the report!]] The figures that indicate that 262 votes in favour should have been taken in this case in order for the European Parliament to adopt this decision in a valid manner are set out in the proposal for a decision. The corresponding article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, contained in Article 250, sets out how to take into account the votes remaining in the voting order in matters requiring a qualified majority. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Not so! Don't lie to me.]] Congressman, you didn't ask me a question. If you don't mind, I won't answer you. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Szabolcs Szabó: He's lying!]] So basically the government...
u2018-09-24-114	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-115	... is preparing a plea before the Court of Justice of the Union, where, of course, it concerns content issues as well as procedural questions... [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]]
u2018-09-24-116	Mr. Team Leader, I didn't give you the floor. Be nice.
u2018-09-24-117	... or anomaly in the count of votes, and hopefully the court will look at it with substance. Of course, we cannot envelop whether it is the same as the interpretation of the legal service of the European Parliament [[Interview from Jobbik: European!]] I do not think the fate of such a political report can go wrong, but I find it rather shameful that, in the opposite benches, despite the fact that they are always misrepresenting, there is quite a loud amount of discontent that is being heard in connection with the raising of criticisms about the Sargentini report. All I'm saying is that you should look deep into yourself, listen to the voters, whom, of course, as individual Members, only a few have the opportunity to meet. [[Interview from Jobbik: Did most Gypsies read and interpret this? Márton Gyöngyösi: 51 percent thought it was about the government!]] And then they'll realize that it's the government's position that meets the will of the electorate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's how popular you are! You can't help it!]]
u2018-09-24-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 13:57, and we're moving on to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi and Tamás Sneider, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-09-24-119	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2018-09-24-120	Thank you. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long will your own ministerial responsibility extend? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-09-24-121	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Minister.
u2018-09-24-122	Thank you. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Peter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-09-24-123	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2018-09-24-124	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-125	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Now that patriotic education has been introduced in kindergartens, I used to play with the idea that if I were the kindergarten teacher, how would I briefly summarize the history of the Hungarian state for the children. And in short, something like, [[Shows by hand:]] King Stephen founded it, the Árpáds confirmed it, the Hunyadis protected it, the Széche-nyes reformed it, this tiny little dictator stole it all. That is the case, Mr. Vice-President. The thing is, today, the real state founders, the real statesmen, were replaced by the fake company founders, the stromans, for whom this nation means nothing, maximum of a trafic on the street corner. [[A statement from KDNP: Are you talking about Jobbik? An intervention from Jobbik's ranks about you!]] Just like 2Rule doesn't mean anything more than an ordinary Ripper logo on one of the sixth-grade footballers in the Highway. The thing is, you're not strengthening the state, you're not protecting it, you're just robbing it. You play a new aristocracy with stolen money, and you think you're new barons and new gnomes, while all Hungarians are destined for slavery. Let's just say that a free man can only be those who are free financially. But is a family free who is terrified of going out on the street tomorrow? Is the father, the mother, who has to go to work abroad to support his loved ones? Is it free to have a child, a young person whose life starts with a 20 - year-old housing loan, a capital life, a family establishment? Is Grandpa free who will never retire because he will die before then? No, this country must not be free, this country must be liberated. Before that, of course, in the spirit of chivalry, it is appropriate to ask whether you, as representatives of the party of state, are willing to voluntarily return the freedom of the Hungarians? [[14.00]] Are you willing to return the Hungarian homes, the Hungarians' salaries, the unpaid pensions and all that has been taken from this nation in the last eight years? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-126	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2018-09-24-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman started with kindergartens, and I hope you agree that patriotic education is right in kindergarten, and what you said should be said by Árpád getting this country, Saint Stephen founded the state, the Hunyadis protected it, and so on and so on, and in the end Jobbik betrayed it. Now, everything you've been talking about here, in this regard, if you're aware of any crime, press charges, otherwise don't lie. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-128	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-129	Thank you very much. Seriously, is that all you have to say? ! Can you tell a minute and a minute of lies to our 1.5 million Hungarian brothers who are about to flee this country not only because of low salaries but also because of your power madness? Is that all you can say to the 400 thousand Hungarian compatriots who are at risk of eviction because Viktor Orbán has made a pact with the banks? That's all you have to say to men who don't retire after 40 years of work, but to the cemetery because 40 years of work isn't enough for you?!Your answer exactly says that, indeed, we Hungarians must fight our freedom fight again, and in this fight we will all be there in the first row, and believe me, Minister, the time will come when not those who build it will have to flee this country, but those who rob it for you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-130	Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-President shall be rejoined. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-131	Congressman, we will not answer the Hungarian nation through you, you are the last one through which we would send a message to the Hungarian nation. [[Gergely Harvesto: This is Parliament!]] It is our policy for the Hungarian nation and our governance that we have shown what we want to do for them and what we do for them. This was assessed by the Hungarian nation to such an extent that, thirdly, it entrusted this government with a two-thirds majority. So the Hungarian nation understands exactly what we do and why we do, unlike you. Your dyslexic... dyslexia, and, to say the least, I'm certainly not gonna be able to help you with your psychological problems. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If you want to put him down, learn to say it. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-132	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Everything is very nice, everything is very good, are you satisfied with everything? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-133	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For several weeks now, the state of the health system has been inexhaustible, and, if I may say, the foam on the cake that has happened to your lips in the hospital for the last two weeks, in addition to the fact that during the summer, emergency workers have resigned, and later doctors have been forced to leave this institution. It's one of those things we can't just walk away from. The other is that we see that the situation in other parts of the country is no better. Hundreds of GPs are missing, and hundreds of home dentists are missing from the system. As far as I can tell, there are now 430 places in primary care where they have been permanently unable to serve as a GP. There is no need to be a head counter, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is about 550-600 thousand people who do not have a basic supply in Hungary today. The events at the Honvéd Hospital are interesting and I bring them here because it became clear that 25 percent of the necessary specialists are not in primary care, in the county of Nógrád and in the other ten counties all specialists and specialists are in the field of lack of vocational training, there are not enough vascular surgeons, psychiatrists, ear-nose-burners, surgeons, pathologists or radiologists at national level. That is why I ask when they realize that their health policy cannot keep Hungarian doctors and nurses in the country or in the profession. And I also ask how Mr Orbán can say that everything is fine in hospitals when they are practically unable to ensure their proper functioning, and then the non plus ultra, the debt that hospitals have, I will not mention.
u2018-09-24-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, These are indeed very serious issues and very serious problems, and I can assure you that health care is at the heart of the Hungarian government's efforts. You're obviously not saying that health problems have occurred since 2010, or I don't think you're saying that there has been any progress since 2010. I agree with you that there are a lot of problems. I also agree that we have a lot of work to do, but please appreciate that we have not just made efforts to support health care. Refurbishing rural hospitals, we will now build huge hospitals in Budapest, or, for example, just to say one number: 79 billion in general medical care in 2010 and 137 billion in 2018. And here I could tell you from the winning proposals to the end that we are trying to improve the health situation, including through residents making them financially interested. And I think that the fact that Professor Kásler has taken the lead of health care in addition to the whole human world is a guarantee that he is led by an unquestioned professional who has given his life, his entire professional life and his personal life for Hungarian health, and in the case of the Institute of Oncology and his example, he can produce not just any results. So I'm asking you to do one thing: you appreciate the progress you've made, and if you have specific suggestions, we'll be willing to consider them. Thank you.
u2018-09-24-136	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-137	Thank you very much. The results, if they are, I am willing to accept them at any time, but the situation, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is that, let's say, in the primary care, there is a county seat where they have been unable to serve as a general doctor for eight years, for example, in Kecskemét; in Kecskemét, where the former State Secretary of Health has been mayor for years and is a professional. I said they've been unable to load it for eight years! In Salgótarján for more than eight years there have been GP vacant places in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county in the Abaúj region, please, every GP is retired and two thirds of the retired GPs are over 70 years old. There, please, in a few years, in five or six years, there will be no GP to treat these patients. But it's not better in Zala County, it's not better in Baranya County. I could give you dozens of examples. I accept your scientific work in the past to the Minister, but please, with ten orders in this country, no one has ever cured you. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There is a rejoinder for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-139	Thank you very much. Congressman! Only in terms of the practice competitions we were able to help with, there were 537 thousand earlier, 175 thousand now, who we were able to help with the care of residents who were helped by our practice contests, and the general practitioners received an additional 4 billion. For a very long time, the numbers could be listed here, how much opportunities, how much concrete support the government has added. Of course, there will always be, and there will be, places that are not really filled and which cause a legitimate problem for the population. I have only one thing to say to you: using the possibility of the development of the Hungarian economy as much as possible, we are trying to make this area a priority and put the necessary support there. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-09-24-140	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Have you ever found a right-wing artist who will be saved from oppression by a cultural struggle? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-24-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The strange situation has arisen in the last few months that there are fidesz organs, a party press that, of course, started in the style of the 1952 Free People, but started to fight culture. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You tell me?]] The question now is how deep this cultural struggle will take. They began by banning a theatre performance, and then there was a theatre director who couldn't keep his lecture because it was also banned. After that, they went after a singer who didn't win on Facebook in a long letter to distance himself from any way that he would mess with the Fidesz, or Géza Bereményi was forced to debauch this particular journalist, and he did the right thing. There are also journalists who believe that Péter Esterházy has no place in contemporary Hungarian literature, even though I must say that the behaviour and betrayal of the middleman does not save the situation that Viktor Orbán has created in this case. Therefore, my question would be what depth this cultural struggle in Hungary will take. Will there be, will people be forced into a situation where they do not dare to write a novel, do not write a play; will there be banned exhibitions, perhaps musical works; or should we, say, prepare for the situation that Béla Bartók was forced to experience, that he had to flee this country because the dictator at that time made it virtually impossible to operate? The same situation may arise now. Today, Viktor Orbán is a dictator of Hungary, and the people who write these articles obviously launched this shameful cultural struggle with his knowledge and consent. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-09-24-142	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-09-24-143	Thank you very much. They are dictators of the party which conducted a horse-riding attack on peaceful Hungarian commemorations on the 50th anniversary of the Hungarian War of Independence and Revolution. For whom I myself have been able to taste the effect of tear gas and its smell standing in the middle of a peaceful memorial. [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you start a fire too?]] Those who ruined peaceful Hungarian memorialists with rubber bullets and batons, who wanted to remember the heroes of the 1956 freedom fight. Well, they're dictators. A member of the party press, who previously owned a party newspaper, Népszabadság, was a publicist and journalist, which was specifically owned by the foundation of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] And he speaks of the Free People style, who wrote his articles in Népszabadság, the successor of the Free People. And he talks about the cultural struggle, who, on 26 May 2006, spoke of culture as the object of political business in the newspaper, which was the successor of the Free People, the indirect ownership of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and who encouraged Ference Gyurcsány, then CEO, to see what an excellent political deal his performance was, that, as he promised earlier, he was not a SZDSZ, but a MSZP politician at the head of the educational portfolio. And so, I say, in view of the obstacles to SZDSZ and liberalism, I quote that the last obstacle may have been removed from the fact that the culture, led by István Hiller, is being sent to the Socialist Ministry, and not, as I said earlier, to the Liberal Ministry of SZDSZ. For whom culture was a battlefield, a subject of compromise, a part of giving and receiving, a political business, that is the opposition, that is precisely the left, the former MSZP, SZDSZ, and now the parties sitting on the left side of the parliamentary horseshoe. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-144	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-145	Mr Secretary of State, who compares the Free People with the 2006 People's Freedom, is also capable of greater villains. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your driver! That's what I said.]] That's one of my sentences. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] Another sentence is that in the autumn of 2006 you attempted an illegal coup attempt against the democratically elected government. And you guys did this, set fire to windows, shut down bridges. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not true! He's lying!]] They torched cars and hit the TV station. You've committed a series of illegal acts. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] And more officers were injured in these battles than civilians. You're the one who did this. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're Goebbels!]] Now, let me just quote someone, 'cause this bullshit ain't gonna be enough after a while, I'm just gonna let you know. In order for Hungary to be a nation again, a respected family in the world, it is necessary to destroy from the soul of a certain person something known with the label of right-wingness, the knowledge that he, as a Christian Hungarian, can enjoy privileges in the world, simply because he is a Christian Hungarian gentleman, he has the right to live well without talent and knowledge, to carry on his nose, to look down on anyone who is not a Christian Hungarian or a gentleman [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] keep your grip on... [[The president's ringing again. Dr. Pál Völner: Sit down. Mihály Balla: Rules of the House!]] I think the quote is important, Mr. President.
u2018-09-24-146	Congressman!
u2018-09-24-147	But I could continue to quote Sándor Márai. So a little modesty wouldn't hurt you.
u2018-09-24-148	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-24-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was worth coming in to quote Sándor Márai from the Democratic Coalition. I would like to come in every day with you reading Sándor Márai quotes in Parliament. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Péter Cseresnyés: See if they can learn anything! Zsolt Gréczy: I'd be happy to do it again!]] It will benefit you, it will benefit us, I think, both of us. And in the autumn of 2006, the sense of justice of the Hungarian people was more violated than ever since the change of regime, when it turned out that Ferenc Gyurcsány deliberately, deliberately, premeditatedly told the Hungarian people the false figures of the budget [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're lying right now!]] and, as he said, we lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening, and people were outraged about it, and they went out to protest against it, you call it an illegal coup attempt, which would have been directed from the headquarters of the Fidesz-KDNP...! [[Gergely Harvesto: We didn't say that, but now you've confessed!]] Honourable Member, I can only ask you to say this every day. [[Gergely Harvesto: But they set the TV on fire! Noise from the benches of opposition representatives. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Because if you say that every day, you lose your credibility in front of people. So I'm also asking you not only to quote Sándor Márai, but also yourself every day. It serves both our interests. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-150	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What will happen to us? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2018-09-24-151	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2018-09-24-152	I would like to inform the Congresswoman that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what does the government do to solve housing problems? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally. [[On the signal of Antal Csárdi:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-153	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, There is a housing crisis in Hungary, and I think that this is no longer the subject of debate anywhere in this country. At the same time, I think we should also see that the most vulnerable players in this crisis are the foreign exchange credit damage. Foreign exchange loans have been damaged, who have become the losers of the exchange rate risk that the banks and the Hungarian government unilaterally sewed on their necks. However, interesting progress has been made on this issue last week, because the European Court of Justice has made a forward-looking decision and I will immediately quote this decision. I think that this will open the square to the Hungarian Parliament and to the Hungarian Government, in order to finally solve this long-standing problem as a legislator. In the view of the court:. Financial institutions are obliged to provide sufficient information to borrowers so that the latter can make informed and informed decisions. This requirement includes that conditions relating to exchange rate risk must be understandable not only from a formal and grammatical point of view, but also from a specific content. For this reason, I think that if someone took on a foreign exchange loan here at the time, he knows precisely that none of the foreign currency loans, described by the court in its reasoning, correspond to this condition. That is why I ask, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, what the Hungarian Government intends to do in order to ensure that the tens of thousands of foreign currency creditors whose implementation is hanging over their heads are resolved to this crisis. What do you intend to do to ensure that the debtors, who are still carrying the consequences of foreign exchange credit, do not have to go to court individually, will the Hungarian Government do anything to do with this? Thank you very much for your reply. [[14.20]]
u2018-09-24-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-09-24-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you said, this is the competence of the courts. But let me say that it was indeed a moral revolution when the government made it clear to the banks that it stood by the crooked authentic people against the banks. I think we've done a lot to help foreign exchange credentials. Firstly, it should be pointed out that the previous left-wing government has led people towards foreign exchange lending. The current government has practically banned risky mortgage-based foreign exchange loans and provided assistance to one and a half million foreign exchange-credit families. I also note that the opposition practically did not support these steps by the government. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No, because he was incompetent.]] With regard to the solution to housing, I also think it is crucial that we have accepted the CSOK request of 84 thousand families in the amount of HUF 240 billion. So with regard to foreign exchange credentials, I have to say that we have gone up to the wall, we have done all that could be done, we have brought a lot of people out of the trap of foreign exchange credence, and in terms of housing, we have given support to the acquisition of an independent apartment that has never been done before. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-156	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-157	Dear House, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, You say this is the competence of the courts. And I'm saying it's not the jurisdiction of the courts. The court has taken a decision that allows the Hungarian legislator, whether the government or parliament, to bring a rule that will spare the debtors, the vulnerable debtors, to start lawsuits individually. Your solution was, on the one hand, the end-payment that could be used by those who had a good financial position or a good relationship system. The majority did not have that. And the forinting is the most shameful thing that the Hungarian Parliament could have made in this matter as a decision, because the forinting did nothing but put the risks on the debtor's neck. There was nothing else, and there was no other reason for this decision than for the Hungarian National Bank to pay a profit of HUF 260 billion. After that, this 260 billion HUF was started to be spent on a wellness department in the Castle, and of course it was only redesigned because of the scandal. So, unfortunately, that question has not been resolved.
u2018-09-24-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-159	Congressman! I remember not one, not two, and not ten government meetings, where for hours we looked at the solution of this issue legally, precisely in the direction of not having to be single-handedly affected by foreign exchange loans, who I think have been deceived by small prints and other lawsuits. However, the legal situation is that the courts are competent in this case. If you feel and I say this very seriously now - that the document you read provides the basis for a constitutional amendment to help people drift into credit, so that it goes through the Constitutional Court and makes a proposal, then together with the judicial government, we promise to consider and discuss it in detail. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-160	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question about the drug situation in Kőbánya! It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Sándor Burány:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The design drug has been taking its victims in stone mines for years, and the local leadership, together with the government, is unable to find a solution to the problem. Even though they send hundreds of cops out on the street, they just go after the dealers. Until 29 August this year, 81 people were produced in the area, but nothing else happened, and the situation remains critical. Prevention has not been for years, not only in the district, but also in the country, and the social security system is unable to help these people. In fact, the police replied cynically to a journalistic question by saying that the police are responsible for the detection of crimes and the protection of public security, so to speak, of a sociological nature, how they could eliminate the problems of the slum in the medium to long term, and not answer them. So this is the case now. The fact is that the situation in the vicinity of Hős utca is tragic and has remained unchanged for years, because of the misery and lack of prospects, the government and the municipality have clearly failed. So the question arises what other ideas they have besides raids. What solutions are the government planning to promote the reduction of bioweed and other design drugs besides police raids? Will an action plan be prepared to solve the problem of the quarry, and if so, who will be consulted and how much will be allocated? Secretary of State, please answer: will the municipality or the government break down the buildings on Heroes Street? What are your specific plans to solve the problem beyond the possible breakdown of the building? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-09-24-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the government took office in 2010, and since then it has declared zero tolerance for drug use, drug-related crimes and acts accordingly. As regards the attitude of the police, I would like to say to you that the police are acting decisively against all criminals in all areas of Hungary under the law in order to maintain public order, public security and the security of people's lives and property. This is also happening in the X. district of Budapest, in Kőbány, in the area you asked. You yourself touched on the state of the district in your comments before the agenda. I would like to say that there is an increased control in the area concerned. A total of 80 people participated in this in Budapest, partly from the Budapest Police Headquarters and partly from the Police Department. During the inspection, 1012 people were confirmed and the necessary police measures were taken. The police now provide a 24-hour community presence in the affected parts of District X. The police, the police, will continue to be in these parts and will take all necessary measures to resolve the situation. In the 2017 report of the police, which was discussed by the X. district government, he reported improved results. It plays an active role in the local anti-drug conciliation forum. All schools received information on designer drugs, presentations, drug prevention applications were announced. So I would like to point out that there are not only police and official measures, but also progress in the area of prevention and prevention. But obviously we want to do more, and we are working on a solution to the situation, Congressman. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-164	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-09-24-165	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The situation is indeed tragic. There have never been so many drug users in the Kőbánya public areas before. There's never been an example of a lady on Tram 1 with a needle in a junkie's thigh. In the past, no blowjobs were haunted in Stone Mine at night, as in today's day. [[Rumble, noise.]] Mr. Secretary. The police, I know, are powerless because the dealers are experimenting with more and more chemicals. Even though you're trying to go after this, the newer chemicals are actually legal because they're not on the ban list yet. [[14.30]] There should be much more to be sacrificed for prevention, not only in schools, but also in sociological problems, because in the absence of these, policemen are helpless. To what extent, it shows that this problem we're talking about is taking place a few steps from National Defense University, a few steps from the Counter-Terrorism Center, in front of you. Please reassure us that you have more important plans. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-166	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-167	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the sake of the truth, let us say that the police and the authorities would be in a much easier position if you had not pursued a drug liberalisation policy between 2002 and 10. It would have been much easier for the authorities to act, for the lawmaker to act, so let's not forget that. And if you really want the truth and the restoration of legitimate conditions, then think about how your government has helped to create such a state at the time. But I'd like to tell you that we're not gonna settle for this. We are restoring the legal conditions and, as far as regulation, regulation on psychoactive substances is concerned, I would like to say that we also need an immediate or faster response, it is true and prevention. More needs to be done to eliminate these conditions. We are determined, we do it, we monitor it constantly, and we will restore the legal conditions on Hero's Street. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-168	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What interests can left-wing parties still stand by Csaba Czeglédy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It is also known to the public that Csaba Czeglédy, the municipal representative of the MSZP-DK-Cooperation faction in Szombathely, who represented MSZP and DK on several occasions in legal matters, had already been arrested in advance because of suspicion of serious damage to the state. The District Court of Szeged extended the arrest of the former socialist politician for another 3 months and refused to be released on bail of HUF 50 million. According to the court, it is justified to maintain the prior arrest of the former representative of the municipality of Szombathely. Czeglédy and his associates are being prosecuted in criminal networks, in a business-like manner, for the crime of fiscal fraud, which is particularly detrimental to property. According to the results of the investigation, 22 loaded companies and Human Operator Zrt., led by Csaba Czeglédy, led on several levels in the commission of several billion-dollar crimes. It worked. According to the documents available to the investigating authority, Czeglédy received millions of loans from Altus Zrt. linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány. Czeglédy's activities not only damaged the state, but also the elderly and students employed in the temporary agency. The first significant result of the discovery of the complex criminal network is that Human Operator Zrt. In the first instance judgment of his macoons, the court declared the defendants guilty of the crime of criminally committed fiscal fraud, which is a particularly high financial disadvantage. According to the judgment, the meaningful work of Human Operator Zrt. he was provided by his colleagues, and the school associations were only needed for the implementation of the crimes. The invoices issued by the cooperative were used by the employment agency companies in their accounts, but the cooperative failed to fulfil its obligation to pay VAT on the accounts. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Minister what interests the left-wing parties can still stand up for Csaba Czeglédy. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-170	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Perhaps the most shameful part of this story is that one of the most vulnerable social groups, the elderly, and the students, have also been shortened by withholding their wages, who has not paid in this vast series of frauds that began in Szombathely, and it seems that the whole country has been entangled. It is suspected that Csaba Czeglédy created a network of companies between 2011 and 17 that dealt with labour placement, and the criminal organisation, according to previous data, caused a HUF 6.3 billion financial disadvantage to the state budget through unpaid taxes; neither personal income tax was declared nor paid if it was admitted. The arraignment is imminent, and the case is currently being presented. Then, perhaps within a month, an indictment may take place. The primary priority of the government and Fidesz was to compensate the victims who were on the side of students and pensioners. Therefore, a parliamentary resolution proposal has been submitted, in which the government has been asked for a fair settlement of claims. This was accepted by the Parliament on 14 November 2017, and the Government was then able to arrange for the circle to be provided with financial assistance as quickly as possible on the basis of exceptional and equitable grounds of non-payment in accordance with Article 488/2017. under a government decree, the claims of which have been submitted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned in my speech, in the first instance, a judgment was issued against the Macedonian and later on the Szeged-based cooperative. I very much trust and hope that the final decision will be taken as soon as possible and that the perpetrators will be able to pay the State for the damage they have caused. However, I believe that this procedure is just the tip of the iceberg, if there is an indictment in the Czeglédy case, then the procedure will hopefully reveal where this billions of HUF has migrated, thereby shortening the state budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-24-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-24-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, the investigation will also cover the detection of far-reaching fibres. Although it is possible that the Mafia-like omerta will be stronger, and we will not meet enough pentitos in the area, so remorseful mobsters who would reveal these fibers. The amount, as I said, is 6.3 billion forints, and it is only a small part of this that is now in the minds of the authorities. It is possible that those who best cover and fear this group of perpetrators, or Csaba Czeglédy, have either received or hope that they will receive these benefits in the future. This, of course, may explain the rigid attachment of such a criminal organization to its leader. Thank you for your attention. [[(Applause in the pro-government benches. Gergely Harvesto: You can't be serious about this either.]]
u2018-09-24-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Lajos Rig: Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, I accept Mr Secretary of State.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few weeks, days, even the last few hours, we've heard about the case of the hospital on your lips, what terrible things are happening. Whether it's the specialists or the specialists who are now quitting on a series of occasions. I am sorry that there is no parliamentary representative of the region in the House at present, who would have had an obligation to talk about this here, within the walls of Parliament, because he must represent the electoral interests here in the Parliament, and not the party interests in his own constituency. I think that's the biggest problem. Cooperation between Macedonia and Hungary is also important, or the bridge to be built between Hungary and Slovakia is important, but the case of a hospital in Lipai cannot be more important than anything. When these nurses quit, you lied. They said they'd be transferred to another department of the hospital, a higher position. It is true that they were placed in a higher position, but not in the hospital, but in another institution, the wolf's lawn institution, and followed by four other qualified nurses who have been in this profession for years. Then, in the middle of last week, it turned out that they were followed by specialists who had been working in the department for decades. And you once again published a lie through the AEC that the wage claim they asked for was HUF 3 million, my God, for 3 million! - the amount of money the institution can't manage. [[14.40]] That's a lie! They earn HUF 960,000 gross! - on a monthly basis, with eight hours of work plus the emergency room, the intensive care unit, the anesthetic patients being treated on multiple operating tables, plus if the emergency room has a polytraumatized patient, they're also being treated. And you guys, from a velvet chair to a million-dollar salary, are handing out smarts to professionals and doctors. How are you trying to handle this situation, Mr. Secretary? [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and a sporadic applause from the benches of the LMP.]]
u2018-09-24-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-24-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would also like to reassure you, honourable Member, that care and healing are provided in the hospital. In recent years, we have provided the hospital with an additional HUF 137 million for human resources, i.e. staff development, which has enabled them to hire 14 new doctors and 17 new nurses to start their work in the hospital in order to improve care. The therapists you talked about, we always said that we could say that now, that they continue to cure patients in public health care, not there, but 10 kilometers away, in a lung hospital in the wolf's lawn. The head of the intensive care unit became the head nurse and we congratulate her on her progress from here too - some of her nurses went with her to another public-funded facility, as well as to heal the patients in the area. Within the institution, they can also fill the place of the workers, fill the place of the doctors or redirect them to other classes with redirection or new recruitment. But as I told you, 14 new doctors and 17 new nurses started their activities with government support. [[Lajos Rig: Second position...]] If you look at how much improvement your lips have received since 2010 Hungarian Imre Hospital, you can see a HUF 5 billion amount. This renewed the hospital building, created the conditions for child emergency care, created a one-gate access system, a new XXI. C.T. equipment was installed in the hospital, a lung-function lab, new equipment suitable for colon and gastric examination, just from 13 million forints; recently it received a new mammography device, and soon the infectious class will be completely renovated. I think you should thank your fellow Member, who has contributed to the development of your lips in this way. [[Lajos Rig's intervention.]] that both he and the government have achieved these improvements together for the benefit of the hospital and the patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you the floor in return, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-181	Thank you very much. Looks like there's no need for a hospital director if the vice president of an ex- county assembly can handle all this stuff and everything goes by his name, but I'm gonna add that CT machine, mammographical equipment, can't put me to sleep yet, and doesn't do the specialty that doctors and nurses have done there, I'll say it again in decades of work. If we look at it, they've gone to another facility and probably didn't go there because of the pay, they've gone through the pay. You always have to look at why. The fish probably reeks of his head. Unfortunately, politics has been introduced into that institution, and a compromise agreement has never been reached with the head of the institution. I think that leaving these highly qualified doctors is a disadvantage for the hospital. And to replace him from another class? I respect, appreciate workers who work in the infant ward or in the nursing ward, but the work in the intensive care unit is a specialty. He shall not engage in self-employed activities until he has passed the course. So you can't replace a piece with a piece, it's life-threatening and unprofessional! [[Applause from the Jobbik and sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2018-09-24-182	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would be careful to use the word "go away," precisely because they are going to another public hospital, another institution that also deals with the healing of patients, and doctors are coming from another place. [[Lajos Rig: Rehabilitation Institute, Secretary of State.]] In order to ensure that as many Hungarian doctors as possible imagine their future in Hungarian public hospitals, we raised the salaries of doctors by HUF 207 thousand in two years, and we increase the salary of nurses by 65 percent so that they could be there. However, it is you, honourable Member, who are putting politics into these questions, because if, somewhere in the ICU, the head of the department is transferred to another medical institution, then you are going to have a policy in this right now. [[Lajos Rig: Why? Did you ask him?]] and immediately the collapse of the Hungarian health system is visualized. [[Lajos Rig's intervention.]] Obviously, no one is denying that there are problems in the health system that we need to solve. That is why we are spending 648 billion forints more on health than in 2010 [[Lajos Rig's intervention.]] This raises the health fund by 1.5 per cent of GDP [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But everyone needs to see that there has been a lot of progress in this hospital too, so for example, the number of people waiting on the waiting list has been very, very minimal. That's a compliment. [[The president's ringing again.]] You should thank the doctors and nurses who work there for this performance. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, What kind of sport infrastructure investment does the Government support the leisure sport activity of the population? Mr. Minister has appointed Minister of State Dr. Tünde Szabó to answer for his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It was instructive to monitor the general debate on the amendment of the sport law that took place in the summer, which took place here in the walls of this House. Once again, it has become clear to everyone that the opposition can only disparaging, or simply ignoring, the government's measures on domestic sport life. Many detract from facilities, support systems, certified athletes, and many even cheered against our own national troops. It was amazing to listen to this, especially when the representatives of the party who had already received a number of inadequate elections from government gave these advice. However, if anyone knows the condition in which we took over sports control in 2010, it is them. Defeated sports facilities and squashed budget support have been coupled with depressing public health indicators and sports habits. Five percent of the population regularly played sports, and about 75 percent of young people who are required to study only did any kind of sports activity in the course of physical education. In order to turn this process around a little bit, change it, we introduced everyday physical education, and we also included in the promotion system for top sports extra incentives that have significantly increased the number of certified athletes in competition sports over the past 8 years. However, we cannot ignore the objective of spreading the culture of regular physical activity as widely as possible so that we can increase the number of people who want to play sports in recreational sports. Here, as in the case of top sports, the basic task of the State is to ensure that conditions are properly ensured. We must pay particular attention to the development of facilities for active and healthy leisure. To this end, the government launched the National Leisure Health Sports Park. I ask the honourable Secretary of State what the government has achieved in this area [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and how the programme is planned to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-24-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Dr. Tünde Szabó, Secretary of State, please.
u2018-09-24-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for your question and, together with this, for the opportunity to present your support for the Hungarian recreational port. As we have heard, we had no small task, since in 2010 we inherited broken-down sports facilities, which could not provide and serve the needs of our athletes, nor of international events, nor of recreational port. That is why I am pleased with the question, because it is an opportunity to show that the government is particularly supportive of recreational sports and school student and student sports, which we have been able to spend more than HUF 1 billion on from domestic sources this year. In addition, we managed to involve EU funds in recreational port as we were able to provide a total of HUF 14 billion for the development of recreational port through three EU projects. And we know well that the population is most widely available at its own place of residence, so the locally provided programmes are also a step forward in the practice of active living and the development of a rich lifestyle. One of the most effective tools for this is the National Leisure Health Sports Park, in which we develop free-of-charge, demanding outdoor sports facilities across the country, thus ensuring the possibility of exercise for all age groups. The great advantage of parks is that they are easily accessible to athletes in their own homes or in their surroundings. At the first stage, 107, 556 sports parks and 67 running circles were decided, with a total of HUF 8 billion being spent. [[14.50]] The budget will provide HUF 2.5 billion each for the continuation of the programme this year and next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-188	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We can see that this program represents record amounts in relation to the Hungarian recreational sport activity and the sport activity of the population. There are already more than 100 settlements where such a fitness park, runway, recreational port facility was built. This year's amount is already double what the Socialist-Liberal Government spent on it in 2010. I think that what we can see in Budapest is that there are prestigious, internationally listed running competitions in Hungary, and that international competitions can be listed here, which can be hosted either by rural cities or small settlements. We believe that the government is on the right track in this area as well, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction supports this programme and we ask the government to expand and continue programmes on recreational sports. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-191	Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier, we intend to continue the recreational sport programmes in the future in order to further promote healthy lifestyles and ensure adequate sports conditions for all age groups. As you have heard, the amount of aid goes far beyond the amount of aid for the former recreational port, which clearly supports the government's priority objective of providing sports opportunities for all, thereby improving the health of the population and making sport a part of our daily lives. After all, we know that we have only one tool in our hands to keep and maintain our health, and this is nothing more than sports and a rich lifestyle, which is why we are building and developing our sports facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-192	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Your future depends on where you live. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Until 2014, it was customary for the government in Hungary to present a report with Parliament and the population referring to KSH in the autumn, where they told us about the situation of poverty in Hungary. This has not been done by the Hungarian government since 2015 and we cannot get to know these data of the KSH, and even from 2016 they will not disclose minimum living data. I ask, therefore, Deputy Prime Minister, because if we ask the Hungarian population what is the problem that is stressing Hungarian society today, then I rank the situation of the Hungarian people first: the situation of health is said to be the most critical, it is the worst in Hungary; the second place is living, the problems of poverty, the third place is the situation of education; the fourth place is corruption, then the emigration and the housing crisis are classified by the Hungarian people. I say because the series of data has been published this weekend, where if you look at the EU average, if you look at the standard of living, it highlights the county of Nógrád, that the people of Nógrád county live on 30 percent of the EU average, but if you look at the people of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, they live on 38 percent of the EU average, but even the people of Pest county live on 70 percent of the EU average, only the figures in Budapest are outstanding: 136 percent, which means that everyone in Hungary lives below the EU average. If you are constantly communicating that the declining West is talking about the need to wink east, because it is better to live there, because in the declining West the standard of living is starting to decline - tell me, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister: how can people still live drastically less in Hungary? 30 to 38 percent below the EU average. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When do we intend to catch up, and when does the government intend to publish poverty data again? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-09-24-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I do not intend to do political cuts now, but the fallout of Central and Eastern Europe from the Western region is due to socialism. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Among other things! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] If, after World War II, István Barankovics was the Prime Minister and not Mátyás Rákosi, and if the unblessed operation of the socialists did not result in the Soviet occupation, but Hungary, like Austria, belonged to the Western world, then our situation would have been quite different. However, I would also like to consider where we stand compared to 2010. Compared to 2010, there has never been such a real income development, such consumption has never been so large. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Consequently, the overall situation of Hungarian society has improved in scale compared to your governance. What unemployment there was during the Gyurcsány government! We're practically short-staffed right now. And this could now be classified from macro numbers to actual consumption, which represents the quality of life of specific people. On the issue of poverty, it is a very difficult question, and I say it as a sociologist, that in a particular situation, in a given society, what is considered poverty and what is not. Clearly, the situation is quite different, say, in Bulgaria, than in Luxembourg. Others are considered poor people in Bulgaria and others are considered poor people in Luxembourg. Therefore, the data that KSH interprets and publishes about poverty is a professional issue, and this government has no influence in the world. KSH is an independent institution which, in its view, says or does not provide data corresponding to different methods on a professional basis. So I'm asking you to consider all this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-196	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-197	Thank you very much. For once, I would like to start by saying that I agree with you, Deputy Prime Minister: it does not matter whether Bulgaria is based or Luxembourg, only your Prime Minister says that we should slowly forget the declining West. Well, we do not want to forget Luxembourg in the eyes of the Hungarian people, and we should go that way rather than Bulgaria. I am very pleased that you have specifically brought up socialism, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister. I owe a great deal to socialism and my age, but I think your age and personally you owe even more to socialism than I did. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I think you shouldn't, and that's bogus from your mouth and from the mouth of some pro-government representatives. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] When socialism is being scolded. I wasn't a favourite of the MSZMP, but you are a lot of Fidesz, KDNP benches. And you know, Deputy Prime Minister, we are no longer talking about unemployment, we are talking about how our children leave this country for a living and how they leave our country because of such a political context. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which you have already provided and to which they no longer want to be part and which they do not want to be a part. I think that you personally [[The president's ringing again.]] And some of his fellow socialists owe a great deal to socialism. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-09-24-198	Thank you, honourable Member, for a moment's rejoinder. [[Intercoms, noise.]] Dear Parliament, The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-09-24-199	Thank you very much. It was a lesson, though, in this love confession to socialism. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] It is a matter of fact, however, that Central and Eastern Europe was then separated from Western development; I think you cannot argue that, even though you are in the Socialist Party, and I do not think the Socialist Party claims that the Kádár system or the Rákosi system was a success story in terms of relations with the West. What the Prime Minister refers to is that, while in the western part of the European Union, which started out in a much more favourable position, there is a downward trend in GDP, unemployment and, in other respects, while Central and Eastern Europe, for example Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, provide the driving force for the development and growth of the European Union in terms of GDP. Therefore, it follows that, thanks to the passage of time and the economic policy that this government has done, this difference is reduced. [[15.00]] And about how many people leave the country, only one sentence: fewer and fewer of the countries in the region still leave Hungary together with the Czech Republic, and thank God. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-24-200	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 2:59 p.m., and we've reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Following the agenda, Félix Farkas spokesperson for Roma ethnicity:. The real protection of Roma ethnicity living in Hungary against the Sargentini report. I give the floor to the speaker.
u2018-09-24-201	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The European Parliament states in the Sargentini report that it is concerned about the rights of persons belonging to a minority, including the Roma. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Allow me to reject this statement as a Roma minority advocate and as a Roma person, because the Gypsy population in Hungary has never received as much protection and opportunity in recent decades as in the last eight years. The statement in the Sargentini report on racism against the Roma is completely unfounded. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks!]] It's okay. It's okay. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The Sargentini report states, and I quote:. Anti-Gypsyism is the most striking form of intolerance, as demonstrated by particularly harsh acts of violence against the Roma, the parades of paramilitary organisations and the patrols of Roma in populated villages. This is as far as the quote goes. The Sargentini slander collection refers back to previous findings made by the European Council or even the UN Human Rights Committee, such as the recurring problem of anti-Semitism, which manifests itself as hate speech and acts of violence. This does not correspond to reality, although we admit that there have been parades of paramilitary organizations in the Roma-lacta settlement [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Thank God!]] and especially crimes against the Roma, which were committed just before the 2010 election. [[Gergely Harvester: Like Gyöngyöspatan!]] That is, it was under the governance of the MSZP. The perpetrators of the murders were condemned by the Orbán government's entry into power, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's first measure after his entry into the 2010 government was to ban the operation of the Hungarian Guard. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] I don't know what I'm up to. [[Dr. Lajos Kepli: So are we. Defiance.]] to take when these severe [[The president's ringing the bell.]] actions against the Roma have taken place, and why the European Parliament has not taken a negative decision. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] There is also a prohibition of hate speech in the Fundamental Law, which states that the exercise of freedom of expression should not constitute a violation of the dignity of Hungarian national, ethnic, racial or religious communities. From the entry into force of the new Criminal Code in 2013, racist-motivated crimes will be punished more severely than previously. It also does not correspond to the reality that Roma continue to face systemic discrimination and equal opportunities in all areas of life, but it does not correspond to the reality that the Roma community continues to be subject to widespread discrimination and exclusion, unemployment, housing and educational segregation. In contrast to these claims, the government is committed to Roma inclusion. As far as employment is concerned, the vast majority of Roma currently opt not for aid, but are involved in employment, in the primary labour market, or even in public works programmes, as well as in other training courses. Here I would like to highlight the training for Roma women aimed at the training and employment of Roma women, also a government programme. So far, one hundred and six women in social care, child care and other social services have been re-trained by the government, and are now training another 100 today, and more than 70 percent are in employment. Hungary has a very strong attitude towards creating a European Roma strategy, as after the 2010 election, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán led the Roma strategy in November 2011. It shows that the current government is very important to catch up with the disadvantaged, and therefore to catch up with the Roma. As far as education is concerned, there are numerous state scholarships available to young Roma people. For example, without the need for completeness: I would also like to mention the Christian Roma College Network: in 2011/12, Roma schools started their work with 57 students in four cities. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] 325 students continued their studies in the 2017/18 academic year [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Time!]] over 90 percent of graduates work in their profession. In the field of education, I do not understand the censures of the Sargentini report. [[The president's ringing again. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Terrible, but enough!]]
u2018-09-24-202	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker, we have significantly exceeded the time frame. [[István Szávay: There were so many wonderful things to say! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear fellow Members, I think that Mr Spokesman has just as much right to speak in the Hungarian Parliament as you have, and he has been disturbed throughout his speech. I think it deserves more respect. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: I think it's less!]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "The Queen of the West" 3. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-203	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to go further on matters that affect Szombathely, and perhaps a little more concrete than what has already been mentioned here in Parliament the previous time, when the former Secretary of State was aware of various judgments, that he was not sure that he should have been aware of them. The fact is that Szombathely Progress is currently in the final place of the OTP Bank League, it is a very sad thing in itself. The fact that the Prime Minister said in Strasbourg that those who contradict or disagree will never be silenced is contrary to the fact that when the cheerleading circle expressed its disagreement before the stadium with the leadership of the city and the way in which the Progress Stadium or the football team itself are controlled, they were immediately removed. There are other problems, and I think now is the time to say that in 2013 LMP predicted something in Szombathely, and so it did. In 2013, our local representative Zoltán Horváth said that he is quite certain that the stadium in Szombathely will be unsustainable, and it will mean significant costs to the city, which will not make it worth it in the long term; this is how it happened. Let us start by saying that the planned budget was 9.6 billion, and for some reason this construction stopped at 15.2 billion. I don't have to tell you here, everyone can tell you in their spiritual eyes, within themselves, who the investors were of this stadium construction. The bigger problem is that, in principle, the annual maintenance was planned for Progress Stadium with HUF 350 million, but it costs more than HUF 550 million a year. This year, with a significant part of the year not yet passed, the city of Szombathely paid HUF 350 million for the maintenance of the stadium in the first half of the year. But what is a real Hungaricum... so I am sorry that my colleague Zsolt V. Németh is not here, who is very good at hungaricum. [[Zsolt V. Németh: I'm here!]] Is he here? Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't notice. I'm really glad you're here, because then I hope you'll talk about this Hungaricum thing. This is the only Hungarian stadium design where the operating company was not yet designated, they did not know who the operator would be, so they built a stadium. They built a stadium so that whoever ran it didn't know what was in the stadium and had no say in it. This is a Hungaricum that was realized in Szombathely alone in Hungary. I hope, as a representative of Vas County, that Hungaricum will also be dealt with in the future. In addition, a new leader has now been elected, because the previous couple of leaders were not so qualified for some reason, but the new leader will surely meet. The new leader, although it is true that he has only a high school degree and has no economic qualifications, has an element in his biography that we know for a fact that according to the Fidesz leadership he will be able to manage the Progress Stadium: they all figured out that he was a member of the presidency of Fidesz on Saturday. So we can now be sure that, although this stadium has been costing so much and imposing such a significant cost on the city, it will certainly be able to operate it. [[15.10]] I'd like to go further on what money didn't get for spending all this money on it. Mayor Puskás, who said at the stadium inauguration that if he was good at Szombathely, Jesus would have brought such gifts, somehow he did not make it clear that if people in Zanati were doing well, then the complex sports centre that would have allowed the public to play sports might also have deserved a gift. Seems they've only been given a gag so far, and only those who can get a gift from the mayor after which the Fidesz board member can handle the operation. The fact is that the city of Szombathely cannot be regarded as an important area by the government, unless you must be subject to such questions in Parliament as they have done before. This stadium is unsustainable. This stadium is not primarily in the interests of the people of Szombathely, as it would have served, for example, the sports centre on Zanati Road, which should have been very much needed, and what the Townside Association has been demanding for years. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title Répcelak, 750 years old. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-205	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, My constituency, the stories of the settlements of the North Vas County, lead us back to the past, as many settlements as we can witness the fate of so many local communities that all bear witness to the struggles of our nation's centuries. Yet we can be proud of all of them, because by standing still today, life is still taking place in them, testifying to a success story and the survival of Hungarians. Dear House, Today, in the framework of respect and recognition, I would like to talk to you about such a settlement as this, which celebrates this year's anniversary. This year, Répcelak remembers that 750 years of being mentioned in writing for the first time. The first mention of the predecessor of today's Répcelak as Lak can be found in a 1268 document. We know from records that several different families have owned the settlement in the last millennium. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. By the end of the 20th century, Répczelak was transformed into a larger settlement. Its flowering is primarily due to the Radó family. During dualism, the church was built, its former railway station, its post office, its telegraph, and it also fulfilled the function of a notary seat. Kálmán Radó, a former Archbishop of Vas County, and a Member of Parliament, had an important role in his recovery, whose model economy was famous far away on earth. There are two important moments in the area of industry. On the one hand, in 1905 Répcelak the dairy plant was founded, which laid foundations which, through the production of cheese, still contribute to the industrial operation of the city. Another important moment, when the carbon well was revealed after World War II, on which the Répcelaki Carbon Acid Factory was built. The plant has become a key player in employment and an engine for population growth. Out of several products, the whole country was supplied exclusively. As a result, the administrative situation of the settlement has changed in parallel with its expansion, and since 1971 it has been a large village. After the change of regime, the potential has evolved further. The city title was given in 2001, in which we have continued to make serious investments through our joint work in order to further strengthen its role in the region. It already has an advanced industry, modern agriculture, full infrastructure, a wide range of service sectors and a strong Lutheran and Catholic community. The past government cycle has also made significant progress with the renewal of the railway line and the construction of the M86 road. With this city freed from the roar of passing trucks and cars, the goal now is to build a more livable small town. Dear Parliament, As many wars and freedom fights, we always find Répcelaki among those who did what they had to do then. In connection with the freedom fight of 48-49, the chronicles report that several members of the Barthodeisky family fought as military officers. Because of the world wars, many have entered and died heroically. In connection with 1956, János Bárány was born a revolutionary, the leader of the Tompa Street group in Budapest, who became a martyr of retribution. In addition to the historical names, Répcelak is associated with several personalities who are proud of the citizens of the city through their permanent work and activity. Zoltán Szarka Olympic champion footballer, who started his career in the Kinizsi Sports Club in this place, was such a man. But this was also the author Sándor Tatay, sculptor József Engelsz, mercenary, Jenő Farkas, and photographer Kálmán Garas, who still lives today, as well as Ferenc Boros. We are confident that we will continue to respect the talents of Répcelak that we can all be proud of. Dear Parliament, As I pointed out, the first written, certified mention of the settlement was recorded under the name Lak. What exactly does the word lak mean? House, shelter. So nothing but a home, because the house is just a building, but home is a feeling. So if we look back into the centuries, we can see that all the Hungarians who founded and gave this place this name knew what it meant for them: a home along the Répce. That's what the city's name says today. This entrailment has remained in their home for centuries in the people who live here. At home, it is where there is love, where we see the encouraging heart in the eyes of our loved ones, where we turn to our acquaintances with respect and respect, where we know that we can count on each other. In this way, the now 750-year-old Répcelak can be a strong community in the future. I wish the people there could always experience a sense of belonging in their shared home, Répcelak. Dear Parliament, God bless Répcelak, God bless the Répcelaki. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-09-24-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking also after the agenda, Mr Philip Erik, Jobbik Group asked for a speech. Who is responsible for the swine horror in Tiszaföldvár? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, A few weeks ago, very serious images were on the Internet, and these images were launched on the Internet from Tiszaföldvár. Several years ago, the Tiszaföldvár people complained about the snouty smell in various authorities, the municipality. These had no consequences. Many suspected that there might be a problem around the pig colony in Tiszaföldvár, but so far it has not been proved. Then a few weeks ago, a pig farm worker in Tiszaföldvár resigned under mysterious circumstances at his place of work and blew up this extremely serious scandal. According to the photos, hundreds of unearthed pig carcasses contaminated this pig colony, started to disperse, smelling corpses. Probably over the past few years, it's just the tip of the iceberg that happened at this pig farm. The head of the plant, who is engaged in the maintenance of this activity, said that it was a unique, unfortunate circumstance, an unfortunate event, because on 20 August the ventilation equipment of the plant failed, and after that dozens of nearly 200 pigs were destroyed by magnitude. However, the problem is much more serious, as this quitter has also informed several Internet news portals that for years this horrific pig colony has operated. This worker said that he himself buried more than 3,000 pig carcasses in the surrounding forest and outside the colony. The problem is only aggravated by the fact that the drainage of this plant was not solved, and the watering system of the rainwater drains introduced the water dung juice, from which the farmers regularly watered and watered in the surrounding fields, so that could probably be the reason for this sniffy stench that spread around Tiszaföldvár. This case is also shocking because there have been a lot of acts committed by the owners and operators of this establishment, which, on the one hand, is a crime and is in conflict with Btk. We can think here that the order of waste management has been seriously violated, as they are considered hazardous waste, as well as harmful waste for humans, which should be destroyed under special circumstances. We've seen, you can see in the pictures that this didn't happen. [[15.20]] On the other hand, consider that there are over 3,000 dead pigs. Most of these, based on the photos, can be proved by the suffering that these animals have been drowned or killed constantly. It also shows that I would venture to consider this a case of animal cruelty in connection with a good animal protection law and a strong, strict Btk. regulation. I go on: they also committed a serious pollution of the environment, as we have heard or heard from the report of the workers; they basically emptied the also dangerous manure under the open air into the drainage system. And I'll tell you the truth: I also have a very strong moral question: if these large-scale pig farmers do this, they commit such serious irregularities, then what is the meat they produce? After processing, what will be on the table of Hungarian families, what will be on our own children's table if they try to raise these pigs under these conditions? The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has stood up on several occasions for the need for a serious and dissuasive animal protection law to prevent such crimes from being committed, or even if it would not have a very strong preventive effect, such people who treat human and animal care in such a way as to prevent such serious acts from taking place at a later stage. And I trust that this news has been made available to the government, and that, on the basis of the measures taken by the government office and the measures taken by the district office, as well as the measures taken by the veterinary authorities, they will be properly held accountable to these persons. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On September 8th, the government agency learned that these animals died here because of the heat. The investigation was carried out until 14th; immediately proceedings were initiated against both the wages fattening company and the private veterinary surgeon, and on 14 September the government office filed a complaint against the company's managers. And from 14 to 21, the area was exempted and disinfected.
u2018-09-24-210	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-211	Mr President, Dear House, Today, in Parliament, we have had a somewhat hopeless discussion on the issue of foreign exchange credit victims. Recalling that there was a result at the European Court of Justice that might have opened these certain gates to a wider extent, the government's legislative space could therefore have grown; the government's secretary of state did not agree with us on this. However, I also invited the government secretary of state to one of the eviction events in the field of reality here last week. Unfortunately, it was unable to appear on the spot at XXIII. in the district, not to any State Secretary or Government Envoy. I am pleased to report that thanks to the large civilian presence and action, this eviction event has been cancelled, and even so much maladministration has been found, that, for the sake of the Secretary of State, I note that it is not necessarily possible to do so in court, because it is possible to cancel them at a different stage, but it seems that this process can stop. And I would also like to inform you that you are trying not only to carry out such events or evictions after a judicial judgment. There is a much wider scale on which the concerned.'s lords are working, and here for a large part of the.'s gentlemen, please consider a quotation mark, at least on my part. However, I would also like to talk about the fact that while we are at least trying to prevent evictions, at least to act in such a way as to find infringements, obviously in a very narrow area of action, since we cannot actively intervene in processes, we can investigate the legality of processes or provide professional legal assistance, but we also have a basic problem. This basic problem is a housing crisis, a home-building crisis in which we can say that the government is staggering like a lousy duck for the ninth year on this issue. After all, he talks about the fact that through the CSOK he is trying to benefit certain social classes, he talks about the opportunities he intends to create for young people, but the fact is that now there were 38 thousand records in the number of building permits issued, in terms of new construction property, but I would like to stress that this was in the middle of the CSOK period. There is a huge setback from here, as you will eliminate the reduced 5 percent flat tax in a wrong way; and the CSOK has been introduced with a condition that if you do not earn a net HUF 350-400,000, then with some excuse the paying agency will drive you away. But I would like to say to you that this 38 000 ceiling created by market-distorting measures is still thousands below the 2008 value, so the pre-crisis value, when the economic performance of the governments I call Balliberian did not at least please me, but even the level at that time has not been reached in terms of the number of new-built properties, and what I said was the number of building permits issued, not the number of properties built and transferred. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary, that a rental-building programme can no longer be pushed forward. I would like to tell you that the annual cost of this would come out in the ministries alone, not to pay wages, but to talk about your pyramids, because we have found this framework ten times in the amount of 60-100 billion forints on an annual basis. Here, with Hungarian contractors, qualified Hungarian suppliers, Hungarian background apparatus, thousands of apartments should and can be increased annually. It is necessary to examine the extent to which the vacant housing stock can be combined with the unfortunately pointless public works programmes, so how much property can be brought back to Hungarian life. If it's only 10 percent, it's already very good. And if they could reduce supply constraints, then the rents could finally go a little lower or closer to the real market value. But the amazing thing is that in such a situation of market abuse, you do not interfere, you do not even recognize the problem, it is untenable, and you do not question the suitability of your economic experts, because you are perfectly aware of this problem, and you are questioning intent. In Hungary there is therefore a need for a rent-apartment construction programme, so that Hungarian young people do not spend 20-30 years on loan repayment or rent payments in many cases meaningless, and therefore do not choose emigration. Undersecretary of State, tens of thousands of young people could be kept at home with a decent housing and home creation programme, not only in favour of the upper middle class, but not only in favour of the lucky social classes, it would be a dog's duty, regardless of the isms and parties. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Returning a little to previous speeches, as Mr President said, the Hungarian legal system provides the framework and the court has the opportunity to take action in enforcement cases where irregularities occur and to be effective. The other part is that the transfer of the judgment of the Luxembourg court does not fall within this area. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I think it is.]] As I said, the content means that the Hungarian courts can examine whether his education at the time of borrowing was adequate for the debtor. But they would have done this without a preliminary ruling procedure, and since all debtors are different, credit contracts differ, contracts differ, participants differ, they are only in individual cases the court can judge, decide, investigate. Neither Parliament nor the government has an apparatus to make a general decision on this issue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes several times.]] The laws are in place, the civil code and the relevant laws are in order, or even the civil procedure law, how the court may act. That's how you make a decision. There's the Curia, he can make a legal unit decision if he considers it necessary or possible. That is why I said that irresponsible clouds should not be projected to those who are in the most unfortunate situation. We must keep the legal framework, the legal requirements, and we hope that the courts will make the right decisions. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Who sets the legal framework, Mr. State Secretary? Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2018-09-24-214	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-meet speech:.Detailed, or for whom the bell is no longer called. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the pro-government side, it may be unusual for a Member of Parliament not only to go to the countryside for a visit to the village, but also to see what the Hungarian reality is like. That's what Congresswoman Potocska and Andrea Varga-Damm did. Although Budapest is the country and Siófok is the capital of Lake Balaton, they left these settlements and came to follow me on such a South Somogy reality tour. We've been going around villages that have gone into extreme poverty, so we've had the results of the last two eight years, and we've seen it there with our own eyes. Even though it is said that there is a huge shortage of labour throughout the country, unemployment in the whole district of Barcsi, Nagyatád or Csurgó is around 20%, and in the villages from which access to these walking chairs is very difficult, there are much higher rates. If there were no community service there, there would be unemployment in practically a Rinyabesenye or Somogyaracs. Obviously, there is also the other side of the coin, and there are people who must say this - who have blown up bridges to the world of work behind them, and the setting up of an inexpensive life trainer is actually turning into such a wreck society. In many cases, those who want to go from one to the other have to leave these villages, have to move away, and this will seal the future of these thousand-year-old Hungarian settlements. It should be said that civilization is almost no longer found in these villages. The estates are foreign, but the servants are domestic. People interested in history well know how, let's say, Congo came under Belgian jurisdiction, how it became a Belgian colony, we know, 1885, a Berlin conference. But what the people of South Somogy don't know is how South Somogy became the colony of the alien great estates. It would be nice for someone to answer that question when, two times in the past eight years, the greats of the country-wrecking, rural-wrecking. Because the result is obvious. If we compare the economic results here to the GDP of the 28 EU Member States, then the whole of Somogy country is at a 41 percent level. This is the last place between the counties in Hungary... the last fourth place. It's very bad! And if we take down the more popular Balaton coastal regions, then the inner and southern Somogy parts, we have to say that you are a real vegetable, produce much worse indicators, perhaps at this level of Nógrád county. So you must tie up your underwear to the government commissioner of modern settlements and Hungarian villages, Alpár Gyopáros, if you want to move forward here. Keynes once said that in the long run, we're all dead. This is a rather pessimistic or realistic statement, but if you look at reality, then this long-term death in the villages of South Somogy, internal Somogy, is not so long, for a few decades, their destruction can be very well predicted. The destruction of the village, which the communists or even the liberals announced at the time, saying that the Hungarian village is a medieval reptile, will certainly be fulfilled, and there will be a lot of settlements to the fate of the already-dominated Kakpuszta or Somogyszentimre. However, with a responsible rural policy and a responsible social policy, this process could perhaps still be prevented in very many settlements or slowed down. That transformation, Mr. Secretary, we've seen in these settlements is brutal. A few decades ago, some 2,400 people lived in these three settlements, namely Rinyabesenyő, Rinyaszentkirály and Somogyaracs, which has now fallen to one third, i.e. 800 people. It should also be said that a complete ethnic transformation has taken place here, since three quarters of the total population of 800 people are now Roma. The Hungarians of some 2,000 people are decimating the tragedy of our brutal, cruel demographic destruction in this region. This is also why integration programmes are important, because we do not want to see the ghetto villages that are in full potential, but it is true that villages that are inhabited by the Roma, but which still radiate order, would also be hitting the map of South Somogy. I'd like to keep an eye on that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-24-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bernadett Szél, LMP Group also applied for a post-meeting address with the title 'The Interests of Children Above All'. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In fact, a few years earlier, I did not think that I should remind the House of basic standards of civilization here in Parliament, yet I now see in a series that this is one of our things, and that is what we have to do. There are several international conventions that would tie the government's hand when it develops transit zones in this country. There is the universal declaration of human rights, there is the European Convention on Human Rights, but there is also the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and these conventions make it quite clear that the interests of children, whatever country they belong to, are above all, and the right of children to physical and mental development must be fully protected. I think and so do the conventions - that these rights should apply throughout Hungary. The protection and security of the citizens of Hungary is absolutely clear that it is our first priority, but I would like to stress that the fulfillment of this protection must not be aimed at violating our fellow citizens, especially our minors, in their dignity or inhumane treatment. What is inhuman about a child, I think, is that we all feel it when we see it. I was in the transit zone with my colleague Szabolcs Szabó, and I think it is important to talk about this because very few people can set foot in there except those involved, obviously that is not a coincidence. The transit zone is completely closed, you can't go in there freely and look around. I couldn't take pictures, photos or videos myself, I could only comment on what I saw there in a blog post, and I would like to speak out here in Parliament against what I saw there, and I would also call on government representatives to make changes. I am aware that, although certain rights may be limited in the asylum procedure, I would like to say that this should not prejudice the best interests of children. I would also like to state that what I saw and experienced there is anti-child at several points, and I think that those children, when they grow up, will not forget the period they spent in the Hungarian transit as adults. And then I'll talk about specifics. The press could also read that hunger is taking place in the transit zone. That's true. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Nonsense!]] I've met two women, and I've spoken in person, don't wave your head, Mr. Secretary, I was there, I'm not lying, I'm telling you what I heard. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Then they lied. Well, whatever.]] One woman starved for three days, the other four days. You claim that the children were not starving there, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the children were separated from the family, moved to another part of the transit zone, and that children should have eaten surrounded by uniforms. Try to see what it's like to eat surrounded by a bunch of cops, especially when you're a minor, a child. These kids couldn't eat because they were so scared. And when one of them wanted to take his little biscuit home and eat it at home, they told him to throw it in the trash, and they had him toss it in. What do the circumstances look like there? There's half a basketball court area like this, and what you guys usually say is that you guys set up a playground there, well, I was actually there in the hot sun, and I almost collapsed, and I'm an adult, and there's a game out there that they can actually play. How many children do you see playing in Hungarian playgrounds, anywhere in the city or in the countryside, on a burning day? 'Cause I don't have any. Because then the rule is that children have to go in. So there's no shielding. From three sides, right, there's the bungalows, these containers, barbed wire everywhere, and the fourth side is a fence where you can go in and you can come out. Here I would like to stress that I have met children who could not leave this area for months unless they went to a doctor. These kids are locked up there. What do you think? Can you keep a child locked up in a small area surrounded by barbed wire for months? There was a family I met there, they were in there seven months ago. The mothers were crying and asking me to stay inside, you know, they can't go out, but it's not about them, it's about the kids, at least take them out for a while. That is the truth, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, that is the truth, that is what goes on in transit. [[15.40]] There was a little girl trying to kill herself. When I asked the escorts exactly what happened, they said it was just superficial epithelial damage. So his wrist was cut open. [[He's showing it to me.]] There are no professionals, there are not enough professionals, there is no way out for the children, and there was hunger in the Hungarian transit. Dear Secretary of State, Currently, the year of families is taking place in Hungary, and I would like to stress that if you do nothing, then what your campaign for the year of families is about. And what is it about your respect for children or anything they're talking about? Put the transit zone in order, the circumstances, and I'll make some changes, please, get on with it, at least.
u2018-09-24-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-24-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Congresswoman also contradicted herself by saying that they did not receive food because she said that it was thrown into the trash because they could not eat under such circumstances. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't slip, Mr. Secretary.]] On the other hand, I would like to strongly reject this: everyone in the transit zone will receive care, all the relevant international conventions will be respected by Hungary, and what is being done by a representative woman, the atmosphere, along with my fellow Member. Thank you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about closures? Who can go out? They're locked up!]]
u2018-09-24-220	Congresswoman! Thank you. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a post-meeting speech:. Why does the government not represent the interests of the people in Brussels instead of the automotive industry? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-09-24-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It says everything about government policy, relations with people, protection of the common good, what Péter Szijjártó said a few days ago at a meeting with the leaders of Audi and BMW in Munich. He said that Hungary will never support a proposal in Brussels that would make the situation worse for the German and, in particular, the Bavarian automotive industry, because he believes that the Hungarian interest and Bavarian interest coincides with the need to reject Brussels' efforts to change the EU's targets for 2030 in the field of climate policy. That statement says a lot about the government. First of all, it tells us that the government is in the hands of the automotive industry and that it wants to continue with the narrow-minded economic policy that it has done so far. The government has no intention of resolving our dependence on the automotive industry, on vehicle manufacturing. But he also says that the government is lobbying in Brussels not to improve the quality of life of Hungarian people, to preserve the natural values of Hungary, to improve its environmental quality, but to promote the interests of the automotive industry. And what is particularly regrettable is that the government does not understand anything and understands nothing about the gravity of climate change. It does not realise what social and economic changes climate change is causing and how much it will deepen the migration crisis in the coming decades. Millions of people will leave, leave their homes, because it will become uninhabitable, unlivable. And it will not be possible to stop that situation with a fence and even a common European will. The government's goal, as we have heard a few times, is to make Hungary the automotive centre of Central Europe. Every time he shows up to invest in a car industry, he can get plenty of support and receive public money. This is why the production of vehicles became one of the most important areas of foreign capital in Hungary. However, the production of vehicles in the Hungarian economy already has a significant impact. To quote Péter Szijjártó: the automotive industry accounts for 18 percent of total Hungarian industrial production and 10 percent of GDP. I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that the Hungarian and Bavarian automotive industry is not threatened by the stricter climate targets of Brussels decision-makers, as stricter emission standards apply to all manufacturers, but also to the structural changes expected in the automotive industry, and of course the end of the economic activity. Domestic motor and car manufacturers fully, while a large part of the supplier's network manufactures and manufactures internal combustion vehicles, while electric motoring is unstoppable and is expected to account for 20-25 percent of global car sales within ten years. What are we gonna do about it? We're locking ourselves in the structure of the past. And here's the robotics. We are living at the beginning of robotics, and we also need to see that digitalization and robotics will completely transform the sector. Most likely, those working in the assembly sector today will not survive in the digitalisation world with high added value. It should also be borne in mind that it cannot go on forever, that we always produce more and more cars, that newer and newer capacities are being created. Ladies and gentlemen, There are environmental constraints to driving and the infrastructure required. You have to take note of that. The gravity of climate change and its consequences should be understood by the government. If you could understand a little bit, Péter Szijjártó would not make such a statement that in Brussels the Hungarian government will lobby so that the European Union's climate targets for 2030 cannot be strengthened. I propose that the government take a lesson from President János Áder. He draws attention, and I quote, climate change is the greatest threat to humanity, which is not an insidious oratory turn of events to say that the future of our civilization is at stake. The more we delay our decisions, the more radical a turn will be needed later. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-09-24-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-09-24-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, What was left out of the speech was that Hungary accepted the climate targets until 2030, and was even the leader. These are very ambitious goals, outstanding worldwide. It should also be remembered that these car manufacturers are the ones who will produce electric cars, who will need time to switch and make great efforts, including those who have been established in Hungary, who are the leaders of this. The other is that all kinds of irresponsible and non-technological changes, which threaten jobs and factories in Hungary, are irresponsible and non-representative speeches. Thank you.
u2018-09-24-224	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address:, Is the government ready to do so in the future so as not to create a traffic chaos that affected Csepel Island, South Budapest and the South-Pest agglomeration this year? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-24-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in Csepel, Csepel Island, Csepel, island-szentmiklós, fishermen, Kököli, and I might add, for many years we have been accustomed to the necessity of not being able to travel properly. You can experience this already on the HÉV, where it walks, where it doesn't walk, we are talking about 40-50-year-old trains, these trains have been running only with a thin schedule all summer, it took a long time to wait, to stand; I myself, because I have no license, no car, and I share the fate of ordinary people from Csepel and Csepel Island. But you also need to see that there is not only a problem with HÉV in Csepel and Csepel Island, but it has been very noticeable for many years that there is no way to travel into the city in the morning or out of the city in the evening. Sometimes I go to Szigetszentmiklós, Halásztelken, and I often experience it, I say for years that I have to stand in traffic for half to three-quarters of an hour. Is this normal? I've talked about this many times, I've put in a budget changer, nothing ever happened. It's the government's responsibility. Of course we've had to live like this before. Yeah, but in the last few weeks, we've seen that there are worse things. There has been a very poor timetable for several transport development projects: the renovation of the M0, the renovation of the Massányi Károly Road and the construction of a roundabout on road 51101. [[15.50]] In order to avoid misunderstandings, there is nothing wrong, and it is a good thing that these improvements are being made, the only problem is that they were misscheduled, it was unnecessary to start them at once. As a representative of Csepel-Soroksar, I think my job here is to bring this up to the government, to think about how to prevent it from happening in the future. Not only in Csepel and Csepel Island, but everywhere in this country, because this huge traffic chaos draws attention to a systemic problem, which seems to be slowly settling, mainly due to the fact that these investments, at least the construction of Massányi Károly Road and the roundabout traffic, will be about the end, and we will return to the normal between 40 and 45 minutes of traffic jams. So, I need to draw the government's attention to systemic problems. This is very simple: there is no appropriate legislation that forces district governments, municipal authorities, road operators, National Infrastructure Developers to agree each year on when, with what schedule, they will carry out transport infrastructure improvements and investments in the next calendar year. We didn't have a meeting here either. They forgot to talk to each other, and the consequence of this was that they were surprised to find that there was no way to travel, because they had broken down the main roadway, along with the escape route, and there was nowhere to escape from here. That's why all of Csepel was in traffic. In addition, this was raised to Csepel, the 21st century. The district, because many people who have been trying to travel to M0, knew that they couldn't do that, so they were trying to get off the island to the north, obviously. I think it's relatively clear from here on out that the government has a task. I myself am willing, of course, to participate in this as a representative of Csepel-Soroksár, but it is your responsibility, because you are the majority here in Parliament, and you are in government, and only you can make such laws. On the other hand, it would be very important for us to think about what Budapest's long-term transport development strategy should be exactly for once on a systemic basis. We know that the government is discussing Budapest's long-term development strategy, but it is rather secret. As a Member of the Csepel-Soroksár Parliament, I also have very little information on this, while it is quite clear that the problem that has come up now could be solved by finally solving certain transport improvements. The Csepel HÉV will be renovated and extended by the II. Ferenc Rákóczi road must be widened, the spinal path must be completed, and not Galvani bridge, but the Albertfalva bridge should be built. I just need to talk this through. As an initiative, I will take this up as an organizer in such a wide-ranging discussion, but it is your responsibility, because if you do not do so, you will destroy the lives of more than 150,000 people. Thank you for listening.
u2018-09-24-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn, LMP Group, also applied for a post-meeting address:. It is not possible to avoid the matter of the bypass. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-24-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am honoured and surprised to receive a task from my fellow Member, László Vécsey, on the construction of the road bypassing Gödöllő. I find the request a little odd, because I understand that there has not been a great deal of such a thing as asking a list of opposition representatives to act in his place on a matter concerning the constituency of an individual parliamentary representative elected by the district. True, I am from Baranya County, but as a Member of Parliament, I consider it my duty to represent any settlement in the country and their interests. So I'm happy to represent Gödöllő, and I'll be there for you in the future. As you may know, you will experience, the metropolitan agglomeration settlements are exposed to massive transit traffic. This makes the lives of those living there increasingly unbearable. Dr. György Gémesi, mayor of Gödöllő, is invited to attend a council meeting to which I am aware to invite MEP László Vécsey on every occasion, although he rarely informs the city's leaders and citizens about the unsustainable situation. According to this, due to the overload on the M3 motorway, the main roads through Gödöllő are already paralyzing the lives and transport of those living there on a daily basis, using the motorway as an escape route. Using this, they make life impossible on a daily basis. This only increases if there is an accident on the highway, or, as in the past several times, careers are being carried out. Mr. Mayor said at the meeting that he would ask László Vécsey in a letter and ask him for help to finally resolve this unsustainable situation, which would be the bypass of the Gödöllő road, which was built on the basis of the plans made during the first Fidesz government. True, at this time György Gémesi represented the district as a Member of Parliament and successfully represented the settlements of the region. The then Fidesze government, János Fónagy Minister for Transport, provided the first HUF 400 million in its 2002 budget. However, after the government change took place, this amount was cancelled from the budget. In 2008, on the proposal of the then MSZP Member of Parliament, Valéria Fogarasiné Deák, a HUF 2.7 billion was earmarked for this purpose, which was unfortunately withdrawn due to the global crisis. The Gödöllő people trusted that according to the promise of László Vécsey, a Fidesz MEP elected in 2010, he would successfully lobby in this case and finally start building the bypass road. For the Member elected for the third time, it seems that the interests of the constituency are no longer so important, since, unfortunately, after the information given by Mayor György Gémesi at the board meeting, he said to one of the local press: "I wonder, for eight years he has been scolding all the government's actions, and he is also trying to make my work impossible in all ways in Gödöllő, and now he is asking for help? You got what you wanted, a representative of your own opposition party sitting in the National Assembly with your allies. As a reminder, I'm going to include a picture of this. Why don't you go to Mrs. Hohn Krisztina? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Congressman, I've done my job, and I've done my part. As a former mayor, I have experienced many times that, unfortunately, the representative of my district does not adequately represent the interests of my settlement. But, Mr Secretary, the sentences just said do not mean that the mayors in Hungary should listen to their names? Isn't it true in democracy that if the mayor of a settlement criticizes one of the government's actions, because he experiences the consequences of decisions in practice, then his settlement will be discriminated against? There's no such thing as the majority electing a Member of Parliament and punishing the people who live there, is there? György Gémesi's situation is peculiar because the president of the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, so many of the local leaders have authorized him to draw attention to the shortcomings and problems. Dear House, We are well aware that traffic bypassing motorways often makes the lives of settlements impossible. This problem cannot be solved by the inhabitants of the settlement and the municipalities themselves. In the case of Gödöllő, the only solution is the construction of the road bypassing the city, which, as I mentioned, was supported by the first Fidesz government. This bypass means great relief and help not only for Gödöllő, but also for Sada and Isaszeg. My fellow Member knows this, as he was not only a Member of Parliament, but also a mayor of Sada for several cycles. I ask the government to do whatever it takes to make sure that the bypass road can be built, and this will put an end to this unblessed state. I hope that my fellow Member will also support this effort. Just that the next time you want to take a picture of me, you let me know, and I'll smile. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-24-228	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You've gone 40 seconds past your time frame, I have to inform you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. [[For signal:]] My apologies, Mr Secretary of State, we have not come to an end: Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.00]]
u2018-09-24-229	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would just like to give you a brief indication that the programme on the coordination of infrastructure investments in Hungary's short- and medium-term road development and the programme until 2022 is set out in 1371/2016. It is a government decision. That doesn't include Gödöllő at the moment. It is probably not the personal relationship or reconciliations between mayors and representatives, but the professional justification of national development programmes, the available financial framework, which determines this. Thank you.
u2018-09-24-230	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 1 October. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
