u2018-10-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain domestic laws and other related laws will follow until closure. The government referral is T/2930. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-10-31-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In preparing the bill, the Ministry of Interior was driven by the intention to create further legal institutions in the field of security, the fight against terrorism and the fight against illegal migration. On 25 October 2018 we held a seven-party briefing on these objectives and the content of the bill under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior...
u2018-10-31-2	Please turn on Secretary Kontra's microphone because there's no sound. [[A hand microphone is placed in front of Károly Kontra.]]
u2018-10-31-3	Thank you for your help. On 25 October 2018, we held a seven-party briefing at the Ministry of Interior on these objectives, the content of the bill, under the leadership of the Minister of Interior. It's tradition now... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Seven protagonists?]] Seven-party, yeah. Just as the Minister has asked the participating factions, the Members who have appeared there, to send them in writing if they have a textual amendment, so that we can examine them in substance. This opportunity has been used by Jobbik, their textual proposals have been examined, and more have been supported. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, whom I would like to welcome, by the way, if you listen to me, I would be honoured with your attention from the proposals that we have received, which we have supported more. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not typical to be addressed!]] Since 2010, the number of crimes committed in the public domain has been halved. But security is a community value for which there is always more to be done than yesterday or the day before. For the sake of Hungary's security, we have further increased expenditure on public security, border protection and we want to give the police additional effective means. In this spirit, one of the important innovations of the bill is the implementation of the so-called "Stilling Project," which ensures the storage of recorded camera footage at the central storage site. As the system is fully developed, local data storage of recording organisations and authorities will cease, thus simplifying the process of accessing data for law enforcement agencies. The proposal contains a number of guarantee elements to ensure that the storage and transmission of such data is as effective as possible. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has actively contributed to the development of the norm, which we are now thanking you for. As a result of the consultations, no comments by the Authority were retained and fully incorporated in the text of this proposal. Dear Parliament, Terrorist acts require extremely rapid and effective exploratory activity. It is important to recall that we have been able to identify the person who committed terrorist acts in Brussels and Paris using the Hungarian registration tools. It is also worth mentioning that in London, for example, there are over 30,000 cameras and there are no Community vehicles that are not equipped with cameras. This is also due to counter-terrorist activity, the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism. The system is proposed to start operations gradually. At the first stage, public area supervision and Budapest Transport Center Zrt. are implemented in the administrative area of the Budapest capital. in relation to his/her recordings. It is currently planned only in the capital for the 6 months following the announcement. The construction of the system can take place at later stages at national level. It is very important to ensure adequate recognition of professional staff and adequate salary. Among the amendments to the bill, I highlight the amendments to the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The staff's salary development will continue in January 2019 as promised earlier. A top priority is to keep professional law enforcement careers attractive for young people. On average, professional salary increases by another 5 percent from 1 January 2019. This will bring about the full rate of wage increase. In the framework of the career model of law enforcement professional staff, the salary of professional staff increases by an average of 50 per cent between the entry into force of the new Service Act and 2019. In doing so, the Government and the Ministry of Interior have fulfilled their promise in this regard. The financial and moral appreciation of police officers, soldiers, disaster protectors and professional staff with this measure will significantly improve. In the future, in order to detect corruption as effectively as possible, the National Defence Service will also cover the staff of the police, the prison and the professional disaster management body as proposed. Under an EU Directive, the NIS Directive, the body managing IT security incidents involving organisations performing essential services and service subject to notification, such as webshops, will be the National Security Service in the future. In order to further combat corruption, the powers of the National Defence Service will be extended to the staff of the police, the prison and the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. On the other hand, the employer may request an opinion from the National Defence Service before the appointment of an extraordinary promotion and management. Thirdly, it will be possible to use secret information gathering under the law of the police to identify the corruption risk of the protected organ. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the Water Management Act, in relation to unlicensed wells, the moratorium on the exemption of fines would expire on 31 December of this year. This deadline will be extended until 31 December 2020 until 31 December 2020. Therefore, anyone who has an unlicensed or unlicensed well may report it to the authority without penalty for another two years. The TEK will have the opportunity to carry out personal and facility protection tasks in order to protect Hungarian athletes participating in international sporting events, which are considered to be a major threat to terrorism abroad, with the cooperation of the host State. Tibet is given the opportunity to take action through the Airport Police Directorate if it is not possible to take a clear position on the basis of available PNR data. The Civil Guard operates on an association basis, so its county organs are independent. The bill strengthens the historical requirements for senior officials of county bodies. [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Road safety is enhanced by the fact that, on the basis of the image taken from the axle weighing camera, the bill provides for the possibility of filtering out those who do not have liability insurance. In order to further strengthen the guarantee rules for the collection of classified information, the bill states that monitoring, monitoring and monitoring of IT devices will only be carried out by the specialist service in the future. In the framework of the Vizek project, the various water registers are electronised. This shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. The Constitutional Court annulled the provision concerning judges that the Director-General of the Constitutional Protection Office could also order control. In other cases not examined by the Constitutional Court, the draft just submitted empowers the Director-General to notify, in case of detection of national security risk, the head of the body who is already entitled to order national security control. The current legislation provides that undertakings with more than 100 employees operating in the industrial and agricultural sectors must ensure the provision of fire protection by an appropriate organisation, a person with a fire protection qualification or the use of a service. The maintenance of strict regulation based on the number of employees is not justified in the future, and the organisation itself can decide how to ensure adequate fire protection. This is the objective of the proposal submitted. The transport service provider shall be given the opportunity to identify the passenger who does not pay the fare or who otherwise violates the travel conditions by means of the address register data. The government is authorised to lay down rules for early warning of cyber security. Dear Parliament, The bill we are discussing now ensures that our progress in the field of law enforcement and the fight against terrorism is maintained and adapted to the changed situation that has arisen in Europe as a result of illegal migration. Safety will be the first in 2019. For this, the government will provide the necessary resources, the necessary support for resources and technical and legal instruments. Dear Parliament, This bill serves the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, so I ask this House to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-31-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/2930 on the amendment of certain domestic laws and related laws before us. Law No 32 contains amendments to Law No 32. The purpose of the proposal is to settle legislative tasks which are not justified in the form of separate laws and to amend laws which have become necessary for other reasons, in particular as a result of the management of problems encountered in the application of the law and of legal harmonisation tasks. The three most important topics of the bill, where the amendments are being made, are, in my opinion: (1) the storage of images and audio recordings in central storage; (2) the amendment of the Water Management Act; (3) the transformation of the information security organisation system. I would like to say a little bit more about these three themes. Regulation on central storage of images and recordings should be highlighted. The aim of this regulation is to ensure, at the first stage of implementation, that, in the event of technical and technical conditions in the administrative area of the capital, the storage of image and audio recordings recorded by public area supervision, the passenger operator and the road operator at a central storage site and those authorised to destroy data in sectoral laws, data processing is provided by means of an individual IT application in such a way as to enable a rapid and efficient provision of tasks. During the further stages of implementation, all of these tasks will be carried out in the case of technical and technical conditions, i.e. in the case of storage at the central storage site, during the national surveillance and traffic control measures operated by the police, in the field of the access rights of the road operator, in the case of public area supervision, in the case of financial services and ancillary financial services activities, in the field of image-taking rights of the operator engaged in the protection of persons and property, and in the field of toll control activities of toll control bodies. Where the recordings are recorded on the central storage site, the request for data by the holder shall be made only using the unique IT application provided by the hosting service provider, since in these cases the possibility of local storage of the recordings considered as personal data is excluded. The right to take pictures is not affected. The hosting service provider shall only ensure that the recordings are placed. From the data recorded by the persons entitled to take the recordings, the authorities, the court may request data for the purposes laid down by law, or any person whose right or legitimate interest is affected by the data. However, the possibility of legitimate use is limited by retention periods under the current legislation. The second important area of change concerns water management. The 1995 LVII on water management CXXXIV of 2017 on the amendment of the Act on the amendment of the Act on Home Affairs and related laws. The amendment of the Act constitutes the need for changes in the implementation of the information and control framework for the use of water in agriculture. The framework will enter into force on 1 January 2020 instead of 1 January 2019 due to changes in the implementation of the project, but will not only cover water users for irrigation purposes but also all procedures conducted by the water authority after the entry into force. All water management procedures, water supply returns and water register records will be completely electronic. To this end, the 2017 CXXXIV on the amendment of domestic and other related laws. Act No. 7 We wish to override the provisions already adopted and published in the present amendment. At the same time, the start of the electronic declaration of water supply contributions should be amended to 1 January 2020. [[9.20]] In addition, the rules on the legal status of water workers and the rules on the recovery of debts of water utility associations will be clarified. At the same time, the Water Management Act includes an authorisation clause for the classification of settlements as price and inland water risk. The third topic, as I mentioned, is the transformation of the information security system. Taking stock of the tasks arising from EU standards and the measures taken so far, it is also necessary to rationalise and adapt the existing cybersecurity institutional structure in order to fulfil the tasks and increase security. To this end, certain tasks related to information security and related capabilities need to be centralised within the National Security Service. The amendment is also supported by Government Resolution 1456/2017 on the monitoring report of the National infocommunication strategy for 2016, the extension of the Digital Welfare Programme, the adoption of its work plan for 2017-18, the further development of digital infrastructure competences, the economy and public administration, according to which a national cybersecurity event management centre should be set up in Hungary in order to ensure the protection of essential services. According to the bill, the National Security Services event management centre would provide the European Parliament and the Council with measures to ensure a uniformly high level of safety of the bodies designated as vital and network and information systems throughout the Union. In accordance with its guidelines, the identified bodies providing the basic service and the event management tasks of the service providers subject to notification. I am convinced that the measures contained in the bill will further improve the safety of Hungary and the people living here. The Fidesz fraction of the Parliament supports T/2930. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-31-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us initiates changes in a number of legal institutions, very largely technical, very much altered terminology in other laws, or some of what the Secretary of State and my Fidesz fellow Member have heard in his presentation, the basic purpose of this legislation is to obtain information, connect the various electronic monitoring systems, to be effective, to provide services at a higher level and to manage them at a higher level. Of course, when you first process such an extremely meaningful, very serious and even difficult proposal, it is somewhat after a while that you are tired, as you are forced to introduce very complicated technical terms and phrases into the wallet, but I indicate that we have dealt with it, and we see the problems that have been raised after studying the proposal. First of all, I would like to explain what changes in legislation are those in which Jobbik does not wish to participate, whether it is negotiating or possibly amending, simply because they represent technical regulations and legislative clarifications in which we consider that life will decide whether it was justified, and until the professional gems of the particular field indicate to the government or the opposition that some regulation planning is not suitable for them, we in Parliament believe that we do not want to interfere. With regard to the amendments to the legislation contained in Chapters 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, we do not wish to speak separately, nor did we initiate any amendments, given that, as I have just said, life will decide whether it was justified. I was very pleased that Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, initiated a seven-party consultation following the knowledge of the legislation, although we did have little time for the 108-page proposal, but we tried to prepare ourselves and presented the following fundamental questions at the time of the conciliation. On behalf of my group, I have asked the Minister myself that, although it is true that the priority of detecting different crimes is very important for a society, and certainly the technical tools that are available to implement them are indeed serving the needs of society. However, given that a very large percentage of our society cannot in any way be called a non-statusor, or that criminals represent such a small number of society, it is essential that these observation systems and facial recognition systems do not in any way violate the interests and personality rights of citizens against whom it would not be desirable to operate such systems and to establish the amazing network system that this legislation serves. So I asked that they exercise restraint, and in no way should citizens feel that, beyond that, every step they take is under observation, because Parliament has not long created the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, in which the protection of privacy is clearly fixed, and there is no way that a law, a system, or a technical system, can cross that line. In line with these principles, I asked the Minister to consider the proposals that we have tabled. If I may, honourable Members, Mr President, Secretary of State, I would now like to present the legislative amendments that we have tabled in writing on Monday. I am extremely honoured and I apologise to Mr Secretary of State for not paying attention just when he spoke about this, but it is not very typical that the name of an opposition Member may be used to adopting an amending proposal, but I am very pleased that I may be able to get used to it. Article 2 I'd like to start with Section 1, which is KKt. 33/d. has created a new phase, the point of which is that the operator of the road must take various organisational, technical and other data security measures in the management of the recordings. We felt that this was too general and we asked the legislator to introduce the 2011 CXII into this passage. law, which is practically the Data Protection Act. In this way, it is in no way entrusted to the road operator what rules will be complied with in this system, but must follow in particular and decisively the organisational, technical and data security measures provided for in this Act. [[9.30]] Article 4 § an amendment to the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses, which in fact presented us with a very specific new proposal. This is that those involved in passenger transport services may directly contact the registration body in order to obtain the data of the person concerned, if that person has not followed the expected conduct of the travel contract, and so wish to discover who the person is and how he can be reached for the benefit of the legal consequences. We have decided that this is a very broad concept after the 7. Paragraph (1) of the 2012 XLI is defined. by law, and by Law 7 § (1) is not about who are subject to the passenger transport service, but about something completely different. We therefore thought and put forward a proposal that, on the one hand, it could be the sole passenger transport operators involved in Community transport who could request such data directly from the address registration office, and, on the other hand, which, we think, is even more important, we need to justify the request for data. Of course, we do not think that a complete piece of evidence should be presented to the Office, but the Bureau can make sure that this request for information is justified. When it was personal consultation, I briefly referred to the Minister that, on the one hand, we do not want the taxi driver who, let's say, liked the passenger to come up with some kind of breach of behaviour and therefore to find out who the passenger he was transporting was. That could be a serious abuse of rights. The second is how we can determine exactly what is not acceptable to us in Community transport, so that even the organisers of public transport may be able to obtain this information. We believe that the need for amendment, which would be aimed at justification, and precisely at Community transport, should be included in the rule, and that there would be as little opportunity as possible for anyone to abuse this mandate. The bill is 10. §2 would define the protection functions of the counter-terrorism body in various foreign interests. This is about the fact that point (fb) states that the provision of Hungarian bodies, institutions and facilities abroad, which are important for government or government activities, would be carried out by the body responsible for countering terrorism. This was our problem, and I really don't want to offend anyone, but we know that in diplomatic life there, far from our country, there are very often the joys of life that some members of the diplomatic body are happy to use. I stress it's not general, but it happens. I said to the Minister that I would like the nail shop there not to be an important object for the Hungarian government, because perhaps that is where the lovely ladies of the diplomatic corps are going, we hope, only ladies. In this way, it should be more precisely defined who these foreign bodies, which are important to the government, are. That is why we asked that we supplement it with the fact that Hungarian bodies directly involved in government or diplomatic activities. The important thing is that the participants and institutions of diplomacy and government work there are protected, and there must not be any kind of convenience to use the activities of TEK. It's a serious organ, and TEK can't always check if what you're asking is really that important. Article 11 The law of the police is amended by the law of the police. In fact, there is a type of additional guarantee element in the legislation that is being taken into custody, so that it can inform its relatives or the person you wish to see in your situation. This claim has, quite rightly, guaranteed elements of the legislation. However, the fact that this can be denied does not have to be fulfilled if circumstances arise which threaten the purpose of the measure. We felt that this was too broad a wording, too subjective of the employee of the determining body, could determine what he considered to be dangerous for the purpose of the measure at present. Therefore, the amendment was requested to make it clear, on the basis of the information contained in the documents produced during the procedure, that it would jeopardise its purpose. Indeed, there must be some kind of information that the notification of that person may frustrate the purpose of the measure, and this must be recorded in a document, or can be made on that basis. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: If the head of organisations with national competence to whom a complaint may be lodged against the measure, which also amends the law on police matters, there is no appeal against it. We pointed out that it would be contrary to the Fundamental Law if there was no appeal, since the right to appeal was a right for everyone. We therefore initiated the amendment so that an appeal against the complaint could be lodged in such a case, which the Minister of the Interior should consider. I am going to jump a little bit in the amendments, given that there is relatively little time, and then I would like to take advantage of the time available for us in the remaining debate to talk about further details, which are indeed professional issues. But here's 153. §, which is practically a legislative meteor that can be said for this purpose. When we have passed 152 sections, we have digested, understood, tried to adapt precisely to the conditions of life, then the legislation that the House voted for on 2 October 2018 is coming into force, a new amendment to the Investment Security Act. This will be included in the proposal submitted on 19 October. The law guaranteeing the security of investments is a protective law, and a rule is introduced to that effect if it is a person from within the European Union or within the Swiss Confederation or within the European Economic Community In Hungary, it wants to acquire ownership in the strategic sectors, then it can receive state aid for purchasing under state aid rules. What's this? ! On the one hand, it doesn't fit the investment law, because it's a defense law, not a giving law. And how does it get here that if an intra-EU person wants to acquire ownership in strategic sectors, he can get state aid? Let's think about what this is about. I would like to point out, not to the Ministry of Interior, not to the Secretary of State Kontra, not to the Minister, because the Ministry of Interior has nothing to do with this passage, it is as certain as we stand and sit here. Someone, the oligarchs around the government, asked for it to be introduced and written in it. When have we seen someone wanting to buy a part of a business in Hungary, and can immediately be surrounded by state guarantees or state aid? This means that virtually anyone who wants to acquire ownership in these strategic sectors will be able to get money from taxpayers' money. Doesn't anyone really think we believe that this isn't some sort of rule to take down some kind of future state aid? ! Make me think about it. I would very much ask you, Minister of the Interior, to ask the Prime Minister to take out this pass, which is a clear piece of legislation, which expressly violates the spirit of the entire draft legislation, because it is a professional rule. I would also like to say the rest in a further timeframe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Móring József, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Just now, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Mr Simon Miklós, have already presented their views on the draft law in detail, and I would like to highlight only a few of the main points in the draft. [[9.40]] First of all, we should mention the storage of images and recordings at the central storage site, the purpose of which is to ensure the storage of recorded images and audio recordings at the central storage place and the processing of data by means of individual IT applications to those authorised to access data in sectoral laws. It also allows quick and efficient exercise of tasks. First, the government intends to introduce the system in the administrative area of the capital city, and further stages of implementation at national level. The recordings are recorded at the central storage site and the request is made using the unique IT application provided by the hosting service provider. It is important to point out that the hosting service provider only ensures the placement of the recordings, does not perform any other processing operations, does not know the uploaded recordings and their contents. Information is only possible to the extent and scope specified in the relevant sectoral law, which is made possible by the unique identifiers. In addition, the hosting service provider shall keep a record of data acquisition that makes the legality of data processing and data requests verifiable. The national data protection and information authority may also verify the processing of personal data on its own initiative. The following area concerned is LVII of 1995 on water management. CXXXIV of 2017 on the amendment of the Act on the amendment of the Act on Home Affairs and related laws. The amendment of the Act constitutes the need for changes in the implementation of the information and control framework for the use of water in agriculture. The rules on the legal status of public water employees, the rules on the recovery of debts of water utility companies and the authorisation provision for the classification of municipalities as price and inland water hazard are clarified. The information and control framework for the use of agricultural water will enter into force on 1 January 2020 instead of on 1 January 2019 due to changes in the implementation of the project, but will not only cover water use for irrigation purposes after its entry into force, but all procedures conducted by the water authority. All water management procedures, water supply returns and water register records will also be completely electronic. To this end, the 2017 CXXXIV on the amendment of domestic and other related laws. Act No. 7 The provisions already adopted and published in Section 2 of this Article are to be revised in this amendment. At the same time, we intend to amend the start of the electronic declaration of water supply contributions by 1 January 2020. The third comprehensive amendment is the transformation of the information security organisation system. Taking stock of the tasks arising from EU standards and the measures taken so far, it is necessary to rationalise and adapt the existing cybersecurity institutional structure in order to fulfil the tasks and increase security. To this end, it is necessary to centralise certain tasks related to information security and related capabilities in the framework of the National Security Service. According to the bill, the National Security Service event management centre would also carry out the event management tasks of the vital designated bodies and bodies identified as providing a high level of security of network and information systems throughout the Union and the service providers subject to notification. CXXV of 1995 on national security services for the purpose of restructuring the information security organisation system Act CVIII of 2001 on certain aspects of electronic commerce services and information society services. Act CLXVI of 2012 on the identification, designation and protection of vital systems and facilities, Act L of 2013 on the electronic security of public and municipal bodies. It is also justified to amend the law. In addition to the above, Article XXXIV of 1994 on police matters I would like to mention some of the most important things. The amendment states that international sporting events, such as summer and winter Olympics, Paralympic Games, football European Championships and World Championships, as well as certain football teams and other sporting events held abroad, are considered high security risks due to significant terrorist threats. For terrorist organisations, terrorist groups and so-called lone offenders, these international sporting events, which are taking place in public, can be considered as a potential venue for the implementation of terrorist attacks, given that the objectives pursued by the terrorist attack and their impact can be more decisive in view of the large numbers of masses and media mediation activities. It is appropriate to provide for the legal possibility for the counter-terrorism body to carry out in the future the protection of persons and facilities related to Hungarian athletes and sports professionals participating in international sporting events which are organised abroad and which are considered to be a major threat to terrorism. The foreign involvement of the counter-terrorism body shall be carried out only on the basis of the decision of the Minister for Police and in accordance with the applicable standards of international law, in cooperation with the authorities of the foreign State concerned and with international organisations. The law is 18. In the case of a prisoner, the provisions in force in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article provide that the prisoner must be given the opportunity to notify the person he has designated, provided that this does not jeopardise the purpose of the measure. The provision only makes the notification an obligation for the police if the prisoner is not in a position to inform the person concerned himself. In contrast, according to practice, in many cases the prisoner is not in a position to exercise his/her right to notify himself, the police department largely informs the person named by the prisoner. Accordingly, the amendment aims in part to make the notification a clear obligation for the police in the future. What is new is also that it requires that the police carry out the notification without undue delay. If the prisoner has identified a person who is in danger of taking the measure but who is not at risk for another person, the legislation allows the prisoner to designate a new person as a person to be notified. The special provision contained in the current legislation, which aims to inform the legal representative, including the janitor, without delay, applies to the minor or guardian under the current rules. However, in some cases, the obligation to notify may arise not only for minors under the rules of criminal proceedings but also for minors under civil law rules, and it is therefore appropriate to include the minor in the provision instead of the minor in the future. The 2012 II. on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements The amendment of the Act clarifies the consequences of repeated action. The law is 23. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Act on repeated offences adds two types of aggravating provisions. On the one hand, if the person subject to the procedure is also punishable by a criminal offence and, on the other hand, if he has been held liable for a criminal offence which can be fined at least twice. However, there is no requirement for repeated offences where the person subject to the procedure has committed an act which can be punishable at least by detention within six months of the offence and has committed an additional act which may be punishable at least by a fine. It is proposed that repeated offences fall within the general category of offences which may be subject to fines. In the case of such historical data, the application of the rules on infringements which may be subject to fines is governed by the law, i.e. Article 23 of the Law. § (1) (c) and (d) shall be assessed in terms of relapse. [[9.50]] Since the current law does not provide for penalties covering all cases of repeated offence, it is therefore appropriate to lay down the relevant provision. The law currently in force is 23. Paragraph 4 provides for a more stringent, double to triple penalties applicable in the event of repeated infringements subject to compulsory fines, that the amount of the fine may not exceed the amount laid down in Article 11 of the Act. § (1) generated the maximum, i.e. 150 thousand forints. In the course of the application of the law, there was a problem that the norm could also indicate that the level of multiple fines imposed for repeated offences should not exceed the maximum fine in the case of the third offence. In view of the fact that there is an infringement which is subject to a mandatory fine of HUF 100 000, the double amount imposed for the second offence would exceed the General's fine limit in the absence of a specific prohibition. In order to ensure uniform application of the law in line with the regulatory objective, it is necessary to clarify the specific substantive provision, on the basis of which it is clarified that the level of the fine imposed in the event of a repeated offence should not exceed that laid down in Article 11 (1). § (1) provides a fine of HUF 150,000, so the amendment of the law also includes this. I trust that this proposal will be supported by my fellow opposition Members. That's what KDNP does. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-31-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the previous speeches, we might think that the exception, of course, is my better fellow Member, then that everything is in order with this law. [[Károly Kontrat: That's right.]] When I read this, although I am not an expert in the field, I immediately remembered that Big Brother sees everything. Or you'll just see what you want to see and what you want to use against the others. More than the proposal has said that three or more areas are being modified. I would like to start with the first amendment of the 1988 Road Transport Act I. Image and audio recordings produced by the road operator in the performance of his duties shall be forwarded to the central hosting service provider designated by the government, which shall be deleted after 30 days, unless the investigating authority, prosecutor's office or court requires data from it. There will be several changes to the recorded audio and image recordings, though. The main elements of the proposal are the changes to the processing of personal data, and several have already commented on the recommendation made by the TASZ on this, that we do not see and see the guarantee that the easy search of personal data for such a wide range will cause abuse and serious abuse. But I'll get back to you on that subject. The next amendment to this law was made by the road operator in the course of his duties... Yeah, I've already said that, I'm sorry. The next amendment is the 1992 LXVI on the register of citizens' personal data and addresses. amendment of the law. The transport service provider, transport operator or their agent shall be entitled to request the identification of natural identity data, address and identity card, document identification for the purpose of identifying the passenger who does not pay the ticket or otherwise violate the travel conditions. The justification is that the amendment is linked to the introduction of the electronic ticketing system. Maybe again I don't understand, Mr. Secretary, something. I travel a lot in public transport. You can use it now. They're asking for the address card right now. If the passenger is over 65, he can only prove that he is over 65 if he shows IDs. If I'm going to take some kind of discount trip, the only way I can use it is to show the ticket inspector that I'm entitled to it. If I wish to buy a lease in Budapest, I can only do it with my personal ID: they won't rent the lease without giving you my address card and personal ID. We don't understand what's changing. I hope I get an answer from the Secretary of State. And then I would like to add here that perhaps more emphasis should be placed on the fact that in recent years the number of crimes against ticketers has doubled, and perhaps the Ministry of Interior should put more emphasis on how to protect tickets from these attacks, such as in rail transport or even in public transport in Budapest. The next law is Article XXXIV of 1994 on the Police Department. amendment of the law. That is another interesting thing, my fellow Member Moring mentioned this. In the future, the counter-terrorism body will be able to perform some international sporting events that are considered to be a major threat to terrorism abroad. What's the need for this, Mr. Secretary? I think that the country is doing enough to protect the athletes, the visitors, like we did at the water world. I have questions: are there so many available personnel in counter-terrorism and employees who will be able to handle this? Why do we have to do this when I think the country is sufficiently prepared for this? What reminds me is that in disaster management, too, we see that the unsolved shipments of waste have to be done by disaster management, by firefighters in Hungary. They are slowly trying to place tasks on certain organs that can be humiliating and have nothing to do with it. I don't understand. What's it gonna cost? Has an impact assessment been carried out, and is there a population involved, to carry out this task? And in the meantime, I ask the question: who will slowly protect us Hungarian citizens? Because everyone's getting more important: athletes, the garbage transport must be done by the firefighters, only us citizens will no longer be protected, because it is impossible to perform so many tasks, while the task for which these organs have been created will not be fulfilled. The decision to place the CCTV shall be taken by the police after obtaining the opinion of the competent municipality. The operation costs are agreed between the police and the municipality. It was said to me that they wanted to do this first in Budapest, then in the other settlements. Has an impact assessment been carried out to see how much this will cost? Who's gonna pay the cost? Do the authorities have to install the camera? How many cameras do you have to put on every street? How will this be regulated? Is there a budget already calculated, let's say, to cover the country completely because I think that we are not just referring to crimes, because it could be perfectly okay for us to use means to detect crimes. How much is this even gonna cost? When will it be built? Who's gonna pay for it? Because the reason we know very well is that the municipalities are suffering from a lack of resources, or it will be 90 percent rejected, and only one or two of these cameras will be installed. LXXVII of 1995 on water management The amendment of the law was a law that caused a great storm. You should have the wells drilled, shouldn't you? We see that the government is now pushing the deadline from the end of 2018 to the end of 2020. We think it's right that you pushed the deadline. This is what we asked them to do, because this end of 2018 would not have worked in any way. We weren't prepared, were we, nor were the organs who could check this out, nor were the people prepared to pay such a large sum of money, say, in connection with authorisation. I would ask the Government that our amendments, and what we have said in the debate, would be good if it were to be reviewed, observed, and that we ask the Government not only to push the deadline up to 2020, but to rewrite the whole law itself so that people will not be so disadvantaged that they will not be able to pay this amount. We need to see how this problem can be solved so that the problem is essentially solved, because it is very important that our water supply is safe and used as it should be. Hungary's water supply must be protected, but people and families can't suffer any disadvantage. The 2012 II. on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements Amendment of law: if we are talking about a repeat infringement, Mr Moring has said this within six months, then in the case of traffic offences, the upper limit of the fine for the second offence will be doubled and, in the case of the third offence, tripled. In infringement proceedings, the concept of continuing criminal law is also introduced. [[10.00]] The possibility of being heard through a telecommunications device is also introduced in infringement proceedings. Here, too, we are always talking about using new tools. And we really can't argue with this about the need for the police and the authorities to try to use new tools to investigate crimes, but we always say how much protection is given to the individual, how much protection he will be against this information. Point 7 is the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. Amendment of Act 2; 2013 LXVII on the fee to be paid for the use of motorways, motorways and main roads in proportion to the journey taken. amendment of the law. The service provider or the motorway operator shall send recordings of the vehicle or motorways to the central storage provider designated by the government. The investigating authorities may use these recordings to detect, prevent or identify terrorist offences, criminal offences or wanted persons. I can say the same here, Mr. Secretary, that we fully agree that recordings and images can be used, I just want to ask you if you can tell me, Mr. Secretary, who will do this, which company will be. Is there a company already designated to manage this central reporting system? I have the information that at the seven-party meeting it was said that it would essentially be created within the Ministry of Interior, formed, and that the people who will handle these images will essentially only act as postmen, and they will see nothing of this system. I can't imagine that, because if you're trying to get some kind of imagery in connection with a crime, I don't think you're gonna have to look at the recordings with your eyes closed. He's just gonna see something, and who are these people gonna be? How many people are going to do this? Has an impact assessment been carried out to see how much this will cost? How will those affected be protected against the Great Brother? Because understand, Mr. Secretary, it's natural that as the world evolves, new instruments must be used. As you can use imaging tools, audio recordings, images for reconnaissance, the question arises whether you will be completely safe from this system. To tell you the truth, I don't want to live in a world where they see everything about me, and I think most citizens feel that they don't want to live in Big Brother's house. Exactly a few weeks or months ago, my better fellow Member told me at the Personal Protection Act how we can protect the sanctity of privacy. That's exactly the opposite, Mr. Secretary, because, in essence, if we say, I hope it's comforting, because I can see Mr. Secretary shaking his head, if I read this law, I can see that they're putting up a camera system in every settlement, and I hope I get an answer. [[Károly Kontra: Of course!]] How many cameras you catch, where you're gonna be, when you're gonna be equipped, I'm gonna ask myself, from now on, people's personal lives are gonna be completely gone. It will not be so... and it will join my better fellow Member, so the very large majority of people are law-abiding citizens, and for us, the law-abiding citizens are the most important. I think that the law-abiding citizen has the right to ask why he should suffer if we make some laws on criminals. Of course, I say: it is very important that we use more tools to investigate crimes, but I ask the Secretary of State to take those law-abiding citizens into account, and I will put myself among them, and I would not like to live in the House of the Big Brother, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Károly Kontra: Neither do I.]] I look forward to your answers, and I hope to receive an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-31-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-31-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Salad-loving citizens lick all ten fingers, in this law there is everything: water, secret service, salary, civil ward, so, what is available on the tube, the Ministry of Interior has put all its efforts into this amendment of the law, while it should be discussed on basically very important issues, even separately, with a special amendment of the law. In his speech, the Secretary of State said that it was a seven-party consultation. Indeed, you presented this bill on 19 October, and then sent an invitation to a meeting, where the representatives of the Democratic Coalition did not go for one reason: we did not wish to be organic decorations at your party, at your party, because by then it was pretty much clear that the major amendments to the law that were in this law would be unchanged. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, that, of course, you should be pleased to receive some of your amendments, which will only help the members of the government to say that we have taken the opposition's opinion into consideration. [[Károly Kontra: Is that a problem?]] Which, of course, is not the case. Because if that were the case, we would have started by sitting down and talking about a very important issue of this bill: connecting the camera systems, because let's talk about it clearly. This is the amendment on which, in 2014, your two representatives at the Defence and Police Committee were still fairly concerned and referred to the rights of citizens. In 2014, two representatives of Fidesz referred to civil rights, which was a very big event at the Defence and Police Committee meeting. It was about building a camera system in Józsefváros and connecting the cameras, and then indeed Lajos Kósa and Márk Bíró, who, by the way, does not speak very well at committee meetings, but at that time it was considered important to be examined in this case. For example, Lajos Kósa said to what extent this local camera system affects the privacy needs of Hungarian citizens. Now you want to extend this not to a district, but to the capital, and later to the whole country. Of course, it is acceptable, and a very important argument for crime prevention, to provide law enforcement authorities with as much information as possible when it comes to detecting a crime. However, my fellow Members, I know that you do not like this, but you must add guarantee rules, and not just guarantee rules that happen after weeks and 30 days, but also real guarantee rules that can be enforced by court. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow members of the Government! There have been a lot of court cases against you over the last eight years, and against some representatives of the government, they wanted to obtain different data from opposition representatives. The Democratic Coalition has done so, for example, in the case of Taós money. Imagine, fellow Members, we have a final judicial decision to get the Taós data, but we do not get to them, because the government has found a way to prevent this information from being presented to the public. So, even if there were fair guarantee rules in this law, as you are on the government, these guarantee rules would be useless, because you will find every single time a way to prevent an ordinary Hungarian citizen from getting access to this information, but Parliamentary Members, opposition Members of Parliament, will have access to data, information that they have the right to obtain, and which, to say, they are not trying to obtain out of mere curiosity, but in order to obtain as much information as possible to reach Hungarian citizens. So what I can tell you is that since it seems to be one of the biggest items and that is what the pro-government and opposition representatives here have basically talked about in connection with the camera system, this alone would have been enough to prevent the Democratic Coalition from supporting this bill in this form. [[10.10]] In his introductory speech, the Secretary of State spoke very proudly about the completion of the stipending of law enforcement workers. Either you were no longer there, Mr Secretary, or you weren't listening at that committee meeting, perhaps you were there where your colleagues were talking about the fact that this stipend development has now lost the competitive edge and competitiveness that it was before, and this stipend development can be interpreted with the fact that it can be paid in overtime money, because it will give you an amount of money that you can earn a decent living from. Last week, the Defence and Police Committee presented an amendment that will continue to allow overtime to be redeemed in money, but my fellow Members of the Government are also aware that according to news reports, there are counties, not even one, not two, currently writing about Szabolcs County, where local administrative means are used to prevent police officers from actually changing their overtime in money. Today, on the Index, news of how Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County policemen are being dealt with, and that, in fact, quite a few overtime hours, out of 55,000 overtimes, after 7 thousand, they paid all the money, and if we want our police officers and, of course, our soldiers to be properly paid, then such tricks cannot be applied. I was very pleased to hear from the Secretary of State about the Civil Guard and about the tightening up of county leaders, and that is good, because perhaps in the future, especially if there is even more tightening up, it will be possible for the Ministry of Interior to avoid funding camps where children are attending an angel ritual in Atlantis. I also missed this bill that they did not get the idea that it was forbidden from now on to hold a great Atlantean angel ritual in vigilante camps, because I think it is very good to regulate who can take part in the leadership of the vigilante from a criminal point of view, but it might be good to draw their attention to the fact that they do not impose any nonsense on the children coming there. Mr Secretary of State mentioned, and part of this bill is that the task of the Counter-Terrorism Centre is to secure various sporting events. He was silent about it, but my opposition colleague mentioned that the security of Hungarian foreign representations and the protection of diplomatic personnel would now be provided by the Counter-Terrorism Centre with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's the confession. You're the confession! I spoke about the case of the Consulate in Beregszas myself in this Parliament. Many other opposition representatives and I assume that a pro-government representative has asked how it is possible for a Ukrainian border guard to enter a Hungarian diplomatic building with the ability to take pictures of the citizenship exam. How many and how many rules have been violated by those who work there, by the fact that this man was declared Hungarian at all, so that this man could go in there and make a picture and audio recording of the people who were there, who became Hungarian citizens, so they also have some kind of personality rights? ! As a result of this action, my fellow Members, Hungarian-Ukrainian relations continued to escalate, posters of Hungarian leaders in Transcarpathia as enemies of Ukraine, and list dual citizens on extreme Ukrainian nationalist Facebook pages and websites. I believe that the Counter-Terrorism Centre is already carrying out so many tasks; this is the organization within the police, which knows everything from the persecution of pit bulls to the protection of Hungarian diplomatic buildings. I think that we should consider the full diplomatic protection, for example, by basically, let us say, in these consulates where a Hungarian citizenship oath can be taken, or in diplomatic buildings where a Hungarian citizenship exam can be taken, those who work there, together with those who are responsible for this in Hungary, will look more closely at who they give Hungarian citizenship and who can take the exam. And once again, it is quite astonishing and outrageous that someone who did not enter the territory of a Hungarian diplomatic building, who did not become a Hungarian, did not become a citizen or could become a citizen of the country, and could make a recording there. I particularly like your position on cyber security. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are those who have produced very nice institutions under the pretext of cyber security, and have produced a very nice strategy, but those who are threatening Hungary's cyber security are not being persecuted. Within the walls of this House, it has been said, more than once, that the Russian secret service and the Russian state-run troll factory should be caught, and that is not as complicated, and someone who is obviously not as intimate with the Russians and Mr Putin as you are. But understand, you can set up a hundred thousand event centers, give them very cuckoo names, the basic problem is not in the institutional system and the legislative environment, of course, it can always be improved, do not misunderstand, it is always possible to adopt legislation that improves the situation, the basic problem, I could say, is in your mind, rather in your system of allies. You see an ally and consider a country as a friend, which the other governments of the European Union, and even MEPs, of course, except for the Fidesz people, because they do not view such a country as a source of danger. The Chinese, Russian and North Korean hackers are the ones who pose a threat to the security of both Europe and NATO, including Hungary. I very much appreciate that you like the national cyber strategy, that you are doing a lot for national cyber security by setting up an event management centre that you're going to set up within the Services, but I think that if you don't fundamentally change your policy on cyber security, nothing will happen. In the Czech Republic, we have been able to set up units years ago for the purpose of filtering out sites operated by enemy secret services. I think that if you follow the Internet, watch Facebook, you will not find one, not two pages, and several articles have already drawn attention to this, which has been clearly shown to be pages operated by the Russian secret service, which has only one purpose to spread false news, and, of course, they are spreading, in particular, honourable pro-government fellow Members, that the public media, which we all hold from our taxes, is the news produced by the Russian secret service, which really contains a lot of lies, is constantly shared by the public media as important and true news. And you have done nothing to stop this. Do you think information security is created by setting up such an event center? No, it won't be created. If they change their attitude towards the whole issue and take seriously my questions about the Troll Factory in St. Petersburg, for example, and other representatives' questions, and they will really do something to filter out the activities of Russian secret services operating here in Hungary... you know that there are Russian secret services in Hungary, persons associated with the Russian military and civilian secret service, that they do operate such sites, and I would not see that the Ministry of Interior has ever initiated any initiative to make these sites quite simply disappear, or at least inform citizens that they are spreading false news. Because, fellow Members, every institution makes sense if it ultimately serves its citizens. If you set up an event management centre, you can sit quietly and tell them how you handle the events; otherwise, you have not been able to handle the events so far, not once or twice have you attacked the Ministry of Defence's website or even the disaster protection website. But they tell themselves that if there's an event center like this, everything's fine. No. It will be okay if Hungarian citizens are alerted to the dangers that this poses. But you don't want to do this, and you don't want to do it because the only thing in your policy is lies, hate, because these pages, Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you study them, and not just from the press, but from reading these pages, they spread lies and hatred. It would be your job to prevent these sites from operating in Hungary. But sometimes I get the feeling that you're not just gonna let them work, you're gonna make them work. [[10.20]] Finally, what was the most beautiful sentence of all the gems the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior said is the guarantee rules for collecting classified information. Mr. Secretary. In Hungary today neither information nor secret information gathering, although there are rules laid down by law, actually there are no guarantee rules. For a moment, you are not interested in the right of Hungarian citizens to privacy. Even when they adopted the amendment of their Fundamental Law, they only dealt with the right to privacy of pro-government politicians, and they gave a high priority to the fundamental civil and human rights of citizens. In this whole law, they want to achieve one thing again, so that they can control as many people as possible, so that they can track the way in which those who oppose the system, the Orbán regime, talk to, who they meet. We are now at the point that, in essence, private housing will be the only place that can be organized against you. But don't think we're gonna be okay with that. We do not support the bill, and we will continue to fight against you. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-14	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now continue our work with further speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, the 15 minutes do not include the need to amend this bill, which I started, so now, if I may, my fellow Members, I would like to continue. The bill is 24. Article 101 of the Police Act. § (2) was amended, and I have to say that I felt that the wording was rather gloated in terms of the meaning of the amendment, given that it only introduced the word "meeting" into the legislation, and I consider that it is very important for the case-law as to what it is about and in what respect the police have to carry out insurance tasks. Therefore, I asked the Minister of the Interior that the Assembly Act of 2018 was LV. introduce the provision of law, having regard to the fact that this rule will then be truly understandable and enforceable without debate. The bill is 27. Article 15/E of the Water Management Act Instead of paragraph 3 of Section 3, a new regulation would enter into force. I would like to pause here for a moment and allow a few thoughts on the spirit of the entire water management law to be amended in this proposal. Over the past eight and a half years, I have often wondered why the Fidesz-KDNP government is making certain laws or amendments that make life difficult for ordinary people. I must say, I could not conclude other than that, unfortunately, the government's aim is to make simple people as weak as possible in terms of their ability to assert their interests. A government against a weak society is very easily able to impose provisions and obligations that citizens find difficult or impossible to fulfil, they feel that the power of the state is crushing them, and they are virtually unable to live the kind of civilian life in a strong democratic country that this government has contracted with Hungarian society from 2010 onwards. The Fidesz-KDNP government has signed with citizens on the prospect of a decent civilian life, and any legislative proposals that have entered this House in the last eight and a half years except for the international conventions, of course, all of which are aimed at weakening Hungarian society. Well, this water management law and the expectation that both this proposal and the law put into effect earlier serve no other purpose than to take away the possibility of self-preservation from citizens. In the last spring, a bill was tabled so that no permit was required up to a well of virtually 80 metres. It was not normal either, because we all know that after a few ten meters of household welling, where there is, of course, enough water in the ground, they can and could build wells, the country is full of such wells for domestic purposes. So 80 meters was an abnormal. Then the Constitutional Court destroys it, the original law enters into force, and since then there has been virtually a confusion in this system. But one thing is certain, in real estate where there have been wells for 120 to 140 years, 90 years, and indeed people have used it for nothing but for irrigation, in some places where the plumbing system is not suitable, even for water consumption, to a very small extent, with this bill and this existing law, they are putting property owners and users in an emergency situation that they cannot cope with. Now think of it as the 86-year-old lady in Gavavencshal whose property has had a well for 140 years, and now it's not enough that she has to report it, and she doesn't even know if it's ever been announced, approved... How do you know if 15 years ago you became owner of a property that's had a well for 140 years or not? Then there's the water supply contribution obligation. Everyone knows that the goal is for every citizen who has a well to pay for the water that is not provided by water utilities, but for nature, and is used to a very small extent. Technically, this bill and this institutional system, created by water management, is absolutely about taking away the ability to self-preserve from people, its last factor, and it is not enough to take people away, putting people in front of tasks that Hungarian society is not prepared for. That is why, in our amendment proposals, the text set out in Article 27 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is replaced by the following: For example, which is simply astounding once again, because it violates the principle of equal treatment, it is here that from the obligation to pay water supply contributions, as from all taxes, the Act on the Rules of Taxation allows mitigation and remission on the basis of various social grounds. What's in this legislation? Not for the water supply. Why not? You're gonna do it like a tax? Tax-type payment? Yeah. Then the people who are in a situation where they would otherwise be in compliance with the system of fines discharge, tax remission, tax reduction, why this tax system? There is no justification for this in the legislation, by the way. It says "just" in there. So why, if everyone in Hungary has the right to not be able to pay in due to their social situation, and the legislation gives them the opportunity to request that this be released and reduced, why not this obligation? Well, 'cause "just" isn't enough. We have therefore asked, on behalf of Jobbik's faction, that this is not regulated in this way, but that the tax is not regulated in this proposal, so that it can be applied for what is available in tax laws for all kinds of taxes and that it can request mitigation, remission and so on. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 7 of the Water Management Act is replaced by a new regulation which provides for the exemption from payment of the water management fine if it is applied for by 31 December 2020. It is now one thing to be exempted from the fine if you announce it by 31 December 2020. But please, what we all know is that we know the order of administrative procedures. You have to pay a fee for the application. In order to be able to apply for a survival permit, people have an amazing amount of work to do, and they have to pay an amazing amount of money, which is extremely difficult and unfair in terms of the overall financial situation of Hungarian society. We are therefore asking, and this is the minimum that can be expected of a government, that the costs of the procedure and of the tasks related to the fulfilment of the obligation cannot be borne by the property owner, the establishment or the operator. What is our expectation? In order not to impose any additional obligations on citizens in relation to this institution and measure, the State must accept both the costs of the authorisation procedure and the fee for the procedure. [[10.30]] In this respect, in a subsequent passage, we ask, among the empowering provisions, that the legislator introduce that the government is obliged to regulate in this respect in a regulation how the owner and the operator are not to be charged with the costs of this procedure. The next section is 31. §, that's practically unacceptable. I do not know if my fellow opposition Members have noticed, but the electronic procedure for this water management administrative procedure will be mandatory. Let's face the fact that she lives alone on the 86-year-old Aunt Juli Gavavencseller, and suddenly she, who doesn't have a computer or a smartphone or a cell phone, may not even have a mobile phone, has to contact the public administration electronically because she has a well on her property that's been there for 140 years. Has anyone thought about this, whether Hungarian society is suitable for this? It is terrible that a mandatory administrative procedure has been introduced electronically, with a large part of the administrative procedures being used by people over 60 years of age. Give society a little tolerance, a little adjustment time, and don't start from today's 20 - year - olds whose life the electronic and Internet system was a natural part of life! Today's 60-year-olds are not a natural part of their lives with online electronics, so let's face it. Where do you run to? Do any of us know American society? The top technological development is American society, and interestingly, it still works by going there, John Smith, writing three lines by hand, and taking care of his case. Why does that fit into that society? Why does it fit into a Japanese society or an English society? Why don't you guys think about where you're running people? And I will return to the beginning of my speech when I said that they wanted to deprive Hungarian society of its individual capacity to assert interest, so that, yes, the delikens would feel that they would step out of the door and not be able to cope with the expectations that the government had created for them through legislation. You can no longer burden society with tasks that you are not prepared for. I believe that Viktor Orbán is very pleased that if the 60-year-old man does not protest, he is trying to figure out how to solve an obligation that is just coming forward, but I apologize, this cannot be done without consequences in the long run! Don't take away the resources of Hungarian society, don't take away the psychic power of Hungarian society, don't impress them with these expectations! The electronic procedure on this issue is unacceptable. So our request to the government is to continue to allow paper contact in the administrative procedure with regard to water. The next section is Article 36. Wow, it's a miracle. There is this armed security guard that has been established since 2010. My fellow Member of Vada is a great scientist and enemy of this; let's say, I do not wonder, because at the beginning it was good what was invented, but by now this team has become a sort of general solution organization. So where there is a shortage of personnel, this armed security guard will soon appear in the legislation, and we will give it tasks in all sorts of ways that are not his classic task, which would be the duty of the law enforcement people who are in service. These armed security guards are being smuggled into various areas of law enforcement because they believe that these otherwise more modest and less qualified people are being used for tasks requiring very serious professional knowledge, so the first is that they can also be employed. Does a law enforcement organization have a simple employment relationship? For example, consider how he will follow the instructions. Well, it's a military crime to disobey a superior's orders. How will an employed person be able to assert that a man in service gives instructions to an armed security guard in employment and then says no and no consequences? They can't be in employment. You can't have tasks that are law enforcement, people in employment. And here it is said that object protection and patrol activities can be performed by them in the bv, among other things. Object protection? In the bv, object protection is a special professional area, it can't be done by anyone, it must be on duty in law enforcement, and not to mention patrolling. It's one thing to guard outside the territory of Bv, of course, and the entry and exit, there is no problem, but the basic principle is that a prison organisation, where detention is the most important task of keeping a high level of detention, is to put armed security guards who are employed in it, it's insane! With all due respect, I ask the government to consider this very, very much. There's one more topic. Since there is little of 15 minutes and I would like to talk about it, and then, in a two-minute speech, if the President will allow me, I would like to finish the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-31-17	Me again? [[He's strapping up the microphone.]] I'm sorry. Excuse me. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I would like to continue what I just couldn't finish. Hearing through the telecommunications device: I'm sure everyone in the media has been informed that a homeless person's trial was conducted while they were in a building, but the perpetrator we call the perpetrator was not present in the same room where he was heard, so he was heard by means of a so-called telecommunication device. I have to tell you, that was incredibly humiliating. Even in media coverage, I felt humiliated and ashamed that I made it to 2018, that perhaps a citizen does not smell like baby shampoo, and that his physical condition and mental state may not be so great as to be in the same room where the court secretary who is acting listens to him in a procedure, but sits in another room and negotiates through a television camera. By the way, the principle of directness is a fundamental principle in all legal proceedings, doesn't it? We don't have to talk about that. But to do this to our fellow citizens, to humiliate them in this way, I simply cannot accept it. Of course, it is possible that someone is really away, and so it is easier to proceed with the procedure, but just in order to prevent these humiliating situations from happening, we asked the representative of the Ministry of Interior to use the telecommunications device if the perpetrator concerned does not object, so he can object to it, and the other is that if they are in the same building, this cannot be done. I ask the government very much to do not humiliate our countrymen with such a difficult fate, even because a Christian does not do so. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-19	Mr President, I would like to reject Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea's assumption that we want to take away the identity of the citizens, because, honourable Member, we want to achieve greater security in the country, and therefore we are making amendments to the law that serve the safety of the Hungarian people, to turn this around, and to assume insidious intentions behind it, I find this a little underhand. The fact is that as an individual representative, voters are expressing an opinion about us. [[10.40]] Never in a single forum as an individual representative has such an assumption been used as you do. Obviously, it's politically motivated. As former mayor, I'd like to say a few sentences about the fact that I've never seen a man in a small town in my constituency in a small town constituency where anyone would have objected to installing a surveillance camera system. What was more, it was expected that we should do so as much as possible, because the number of crimes fell from one minute to the next, and as a result, the number of crimes committed in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County fell from one year to the next. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Simon, You don't want to take away the identity of citizens, you want to take away the good for them. I can see that. And they don't really want to give it to me. Some of them have already moved out of the country. I don't think there'd be much debate between us in the field of CCTV if we had really talked about this. But right now, this bill doesn't show the guarantee rules that they're actually going to use it for what it might be. And when you get the opportunity to look into something, especially when it comes to privacy, the fundamental rights of citizens, you like to look into it. You like to share this information with people who, to say the least, are not suitable. This is very often seen when half-information goes out of all databases, for example, for opposition representatives, where there is half-information, not real, half-information, which can then be disproved, and go to court. We know precisely that the issue of crime prevention is a very important issue in Hungary. I wish we could see that the Supreme Prosecutor's office is so keen on crime prevention. Unfortunately, the crimes that most of your environment is committing cannot be caught with a surveillance camera. That's the big problem. I would very much like to have a surveillance camera next to the money pots, the money from the EU, the money from the state, and the taxpayers' money, because then we'd find out who's putting their hands in these bags. Then we'll find out who the circle that's committing the most serious crimes is stealing taxpayers' money. At the same time, of course, it is an important and high priority that the number of crimes detected should be as high as possible, but it is also an important goal to protect the fundamental rights of citizens, as Lajos Kósa said in 2014 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Current Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. Thank you.
u2018-10-31-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a two-minute speech, but I cannot give her the floor, but if she asks for the floor in a normal time frame, of course she has the opportunity to do so, so I will give her the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-31-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor only because I would like to reply to my colleague, Mr Simon Miklós. You must have missed the fact that I brought up the issue of citizens' ability to assert their interests when we talked about water management legislation. Neither the facial recognition system, nor the recording system, nor the connection of cameras, on one subject I did not mention this question. Because I think so, too, and if you remember my speech as a keynote speaker, I specifically said at the beginning that, yes, it is very important for crime prevention and detection purposes to have surveillance cameras in certain areas, especially those with criminal charges. They are legally used, let us not cross the line of what is in the privacy of the law-abiding people, but I specifically mentioned when I spoke about interest enforcement only in the Water Management Act. So please don't take this the wrong way, because if you're a small town representative, well, if you're someone, you'll be asked a lot of questions by the citizens you represent. I don't think a lot of people are gonna walk the streets a year or two, because at any moment, a well owner might come across who says, "I'm glad you're here, because I'm sure you, as legislator, know best what I'm supposed to do." And with all due respect, Mr Simon Miklós, please do not make me have to buy a computer so that I can be electronically connected to the public administration at the age of 82. So, let me put it this way, I do not envy individual Members on this issue, because they will receive a number of questions in forums and on the street. However, I would ask you to accept that, as opposition representatives, I would like to see citizens face as little difficulty as possible, just because we want to regulate a matter. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-31-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members who supported the bill tabled in the debate. Thus, Congressman Miklós Simon, representing Fidesz, and Mr Attila Móring, representing KDNP... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Then you can discuss it at the faction meeting.]] I'm sorry, Congresswoman, I've listened to you, too. Please do the same. So I want to thank you for your support. As far as the other representatives are concerned, I will start with the comments made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. With regard to the camera system, and many of my fellow Members have said this, Mrs Ágnes Vadai and others too - I would like to say that the aim of this is to prevent crime, and this method has worked in the last eight years. I would also like to say that in the last eight years, the number of crimes that have become known has been halved. Thus, public security has improved significantly, people's subjective sense of security has increased, and this has been achieved in a situation where Hungary has been under such migratory pressure since 2015 - more than three years - that the police are fighting a two-front battle, on the one hand, in the area of internal security, and on the other hand, in cooperation with national defences, we can say that Hungary is a safe country, Europe and one of the most secure countries in the world. But it doesn't fill us with security, or to say that everything is really okay now, but security and I have said this in my comment on the area for which we need to do much more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. So we know that the tasks are done, that we have to do more every day for public safety. The government is determined, and thanks to this bill, which I hope will be adopted by Parliament, security can increase, and it is important that these proposals are adopted by Parliament. So, with regard to the camera system, the congresswoman and others have brought privacy as a counter-example, as if it could be put in jeopardy. I would like to say that the protection of privacy is surrounded by guarantee elements in the Fundamental Law and other laws, so that it cannot be damaged in any way. Once again, I agree with Mr Simon Miklós, myself, as an individual representative, and as one of the heads of the Ministry of Interior, I find that when the Ministry of Interior announces a camera contest, there are multiple over-subscriptions, there are multiple over-requisites, as the municipalities consider this to be an opportunity to increase the safety of the citizens of that settlement. With regard to these camera contests and the operation of the camera system, I have never heard of abuse, fellow Members. So there is complete trust, because everyone knows that this is not to peek at anyone, it is to help public order, public security and its maintenance. [[10.50]] Continuing to my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea: the Kkt. 33/D. With regard to the amendment to Section 2 of the Act, we have taken into account the technical amendment submitted by Jobbik, which was necessary because it is necessary not only to refer to Infotv., but there are also rules on personal data processing in the GDPR Regulation. Thank you for submitting this proposal. This is the case. The request for data from personal data and address records shall not be arbitrary. The taxi driver, who liked the lady in the taxi, has set this example, if I remember correctly, well, this is not possible by the current legislation and the legislation submitted. Let's say that. It's very catchy to bring up an example like this, but it's not real, it's not real. It is therefore only possible to obtain data from personal data and address records for the purposes laid down by law. The following is that, taking into account the freedom of organisation, it is not possible to give the government a taxative list of the bodies and organisations that are important for government activity. However, the law already states that this body must be linked to diplomacy. Also Varga-Damm Andrea is the submitted bill 153. He quoted his article as a point that could not be supported. In this context, I would like to say that State aid is a mandate to create a financial commitment, but only in a way compatible with the State aid rules. With regard to the infrastructure covered by the law, the bill aims to put Hungarian and EU investors in a position to create state aid. This is where I say, in general, about the criticism of all my opposition fellow Members, that if they do not agree with one of the instruments, I would ask them to submit an amendment proposal and I can promise that all amendments, as they have done so far, will continue to be examined in substance. [[Gergely Harvesto, leaving the room: Yes, as before!]] I wish Mr Gergely Arató peace and quiet with great love. When you walk out of the room on your cell phone and yell in here, please, this is democracy, Congressman. Do you respect democracy that much? I'm sorry. I would also respond to Mrs Bangón's comments, despite the fact that she is not in the room because of her urgent public duties. But I will answer your question about data storage. They're storing the data for 30 days. If there is no suspicion of a crime or offence, these recordings will be destroyed. Thinking back on the road bombing would have been a great help even if there was such a regulation. This regulation must be examined in terms of ensuring greater security in public areas. I suppose it's undisputed, and on several occasions more people have told you about it. Number of crimes against ticketers: ticketers are official persons, so they have the right to regulate and protect the criminal code on official persons. The Minister of the Interior has decreed that international trains must be accompanied by trains, which provide significant security for ticket managers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the rules on data processing laid down by the bill also provide greater security for ticket managers. It was stated whether there was an impact assessment of the camera systems, whether it was surveyed. Camera systems are already in place, and the municipalities have no additional costs in connection with their installation. It is about recording and connecting data. With regard to the installation of cameras, the police have the right to decide, so the professional aspects of law enforcement are given priority in their placement; I would like to highlight this. Right now, the police can only make a suggestion, and the municipality will decide. This situation will be improved by the proposal. Now the logic is reversed, on the recommendation of the municipality, the police decide on the placement. I also believe that it is in the public interest that the decision be taken in this respect, taking account of professional proposals. Mrs Bangóné and Mrs Vadai on the location: the hosting service provider will be designated in a government decree. This service provider cannot know the uploaded data this is very important, the content of the uploaded data is only known by the uploader, who has already recorded and handled these recordings. According to the sectoral law, the court, the prosecutor's office and the investigating authority are entitled to request data, indicating the purpose of the data request. The draft does not change that. So the data management guarantees so far continue to exist, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information controls the legality of data processing. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Congresswoman Vada made a critical remark about the National Civil Service Association. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Civil Service Association is a public body based on local government. The Ministry of Interior is indeed providing support for the operation of the organisation in order to reduce public crime, so to reduce public crime. With regard to the programmes organised by the National Civil Service Association, the Ministry of Interior does not and cannot have supervisory powers, as it is a public body. That's what I wanted to tell you. But it must also be said that the programme you mentioned is not part of the achievement of this goal. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in the Water Management Act 15/E. The Commission also expressed criticism of the regulation on the amendment of §8 of the Act. The reference to the law on the new tax regime does not imply any substantive amendment. As far as well is concerned, honourable Member, I would like to say that the adoption of this proposal is our hope that it will be possible that, by 31 December 2020, we will be able to jointly adopt legislation in this respect that meets the water protection tasks, complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court, takes into account the comments made by the President of the Republic and does not cause people to have any additional obligations that they cannot fulfil. We ourselves are trying to achieve this goal. We hope to receive this support. Discussions and preparation are ongoing. Once again, the protection of water bases, the fulfilment of the public's domestic water demand, is also important to achieve. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is no intention of natural persons having to pay for water supplies. So you don't have to deal with this household water demand, so I'd like to say it correctly. And I would ask the honourable Member to take this information into account if she is talking about this issue, because it is not your intention to spread rumors, to frighten people with untruths. Once again, this is a clear goal. What I would like to talk to you about the armed security guards... Congresswoman, if I may, and if your fellow Member would take a seat, would be an honor to this House. I'm not supposed to be sitting, though. [[Gergely Arató: Ask the president to clean up. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Restrict the President's rights!]] So armed security... [[Noise.]]
u2018-10-31-26	Congresswoman Vada, if you've calmed down, let me know, because the secretary of state will have the floor. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, I am defending your rights!]] Here you go, Secretary of State, carry on.
u2018-10-31-27	Thank you very much. So armed security guards are, in the vast majority, currently employed. The armed security guard shall be established by a decision and, on the basis of these decisions, objects shall still be retained, in which their basic function shall be to protect the object. But patrols, armed security guards, also have a hierarchy of instructions, which determines the activity. As regards his impulsive criticism of the hearing: the court is the judge of the case, which decides on the application of the hearing; not the Ministry of the Interior, not the police, not the court, but the court. Madam Member, I am sure you know this, and I think it was just a misunderstanding that you misquoted this. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are approaching the end of the general debate on a very important proposal. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who participated in this debate for their comments, especially those Members who have given their support to this proposal. I also thank those who criticized it, but I urge them to submit an amendment and we will examine it. I would like to draw attention to a very important fact. This proposal is also for the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. This is a public goal which, I trust, is appreciated by all the factions, and the bill to be adopted will also contribute to Hungary remaining a safe country. The safety of Hungarian people and Hungary is the first in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.00]]
u2018-10-31-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, too, for the few minutes in the locker room that you could have been in charge of the meeting for me. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill on the education register until closure. The government referral is T/2940. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Professor József Bódis, State Secretary, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-31-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the T/2940 on the education register. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the justification for the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. The adoption of this bill is necessary because the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union, commonly referred to as GDPR, applies in Hungary from 25 May 2018. In line with the provisions of the GDPR, we see the need to establish a single education register because, by setting up a lifelong learning strategy, the aim is to ensure that people's educational lives can be monitored uniformly from primary school to higher education and language exams instead of the current fragmented registration system. In order to comply with the provisions of the GDPR and with the corresponding government bureaucracy reduction objectives, it has become necessary to review the electronic registers operated by the Education Office and to strengthen their coherence. The purpose of this bill is to ensure uniform management of the data stored in the aforementioned registers, to ensure the timeliness of the data and to implement additional security measures in order to ensure the legitimate transfer of data. The bill will be used to detect duplication in order to establish a more credible, up-to-date system of records for the benefit of citizens. Further, Mr President, honourable Members and gentlemen, allow me to briefly describe the main elements of the education register to you. The bill sets out the scope of personal data which must be treated in a uniform manner in addition to the professional personal data contained in each registration subsystem. In addition, the professional systems, as well as their subsystems, which form part of the education register, contain different professional data categories for the performance of different educational management tasks, the data content of which is specified in the Annex. The common element of each subsystem is the educational identification number identifying the same person within each system. With regard to the educational identification number, it is important to highlight the fact that at present, depending on the stage of the student life cycle, the type of register, the current role of the registered person, this one triggers several identifiers that accompany the citizen throughout the education system. The bill sets out the conditions for the transfer of data recorded in the professional and sub-schemes, and for each system a period of data processing other than the general rules. Where the bill does not specify the duration of the processing, the general provisions of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information shall apply to the review of the need for data processed in the registers. Therefore, the need to register data should be reviewed every three years and this should be documented. It is important to emphasise the fact that the bill is subject to the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act, in particular to the principle of legality of its principles, to the principle of reasonable time, and to the principle of efficiency, which places the emphasis on cost minimisation while conducting the procedure as quickly as possible. The bill allows the enforcement of the rules of the request as widely as possible, according to which the authority may contact another body or person if the necessary data or documents are held by another authority during the procedure. The bill will keep in mind the priorities for cutting red tape, one of the key elements of which is that, if the data contained in the public register are available for the examination of the application, the client should not be obliged to submit them. All this further reinforces the need for a coherent structure of professional systems supporting the tasks of the Education Office, even more in line with the above requirements. In the course of its operation, the Education Office shall provide data from the sectoral registers it manages for the conduct of the official procedures of the various public administrations, from family support matters to official matters relating to health insurance law. These data shall be transmitted to students, students, employment relationships, training and other data of natural persons on a daily basis in bulk under modern, secure IT systems operating frameworks guaranteeing data protection. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to ensure that information on educational records is kept up-to-date and as reliable as possible, thereby helping to ensure faster, more efficient administration, reducing the administrative burden on the client and the public administration as a whole. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to develop a new, redundant, more transparent educational system structure and to use IT solutions that enable a more secure data link between individual bodies. The adoption of the bill allows the educational office to update the data set out in the legislation of one and a half million students, educators and 280 thousand students and teachers who are affiliated with all higher education institutions in relation to the tasks of all public education institutions using the Ministry of Interior's personal data and address registration services. In doing so, the administrative burden of public education and higher education institutional reporting agents will be significantly simplified. During their work, the possibility of error will also be minimized during data entry, as any change in the related Personal Data and Address Register of the Ministry of Interior will be transferred automatically and online fully to the systems operated by the Education Office. Linking with the personal data and address register ensures that the educational data stock is more appropriate than ever before. This also means that the level and administration of institutional data in public education and higher education institutions are also significantly reduced. [[11.10]] With the introduction of a single educational identifier, it will be sufficient to identify the person concerned only with the educational identifier, thereby reducing data traffic and the possibility of data recording and entering errors. The aim of the bill is also to create a new registration environment that ensures that the statistical, analytical and research data required for policy planning are made more widely available, while ensuring the rights to the processing of personal data. With an integrated education register in one unit, we achieve the goal of ensuring that data can be displayed in their higher contexts, redundancy and internal contradictions in data reporting. The aim of establishing an educational register is also to facilitate the effective identification of persons, and thus to ensure that individuals do not appear anonymously multiplely, distorting factors are excluded. As a consequence, statistics and analyses will present the situation of public education and higher education with even more far-reaching accuracy in the future, as well as statistical data related to language examinations. Compliance with the GDPR provision and government bureaucracy reduction objectives can only be achieved if the education register described above is established, and I therefore ask you to support the T/2940 on the education register. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Maria Kállai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the Secretary of State, indeed, the registration systems used in the education administration currently store personal data subject to our personal data. As a result, the majority of educational records for each person actually contain the identity or other personal data of the natural person concerned. The adoption of the bill submitted by the Ministry of Human Resources is necessary because, as we know, as of May 25, everyone in our country will have to apply the EU General Data Protection Regulation, and practically in line with that, there is the establishment of a uniform system of education records, which, as has already been said, is necessary, since by setting up a lifelong learning system, the aim is to make available to anyone who enters the system, in fact, a person's way of life from student status, in the current fragmented registration system, almost from kindergarten through primary school to higher education, in terms of language exams. In order to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation and in line with the objectives of a government bureaucracy reduction, professional systems operated by the Education Office, their subsystems, as well as the coherence of registers containing public-credit education data, are strengthened, as we can read more in the draft law itself. The proposal before us has also set out the objective of establishing a coherent management of the data stored in them, of achieving the timeliness of the data, and of implementing additional security measures to ensure the legitimate transfer of data. Of course, with regard to the basic structure of the system, the bill sets out the scope of personal data that needs to be dealt with in a uniform manner in addition to the professional data held in each subsystem. In addition, the professional systems and their subsystems, which form part of the education register, contain different professional data fields for the performance of different educational management tasks, as can be seen in the draft law. The common element of each technical and sub-scheme is the educational identification number, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, which identifies the same person within each system, as the draft law clearly states -, the natural person may have an educational identification number. I think that it is clear in this mind how important this draft law is, because it is very practical that the educational identifier itself will replace several identifiers, which really will accompany the citizen throughout the education system. But if there's 5. We see in the draft law a list of the article, then we can see that any person in a legal relationship, I think, can be accompanied in a perfectly correct way, and so a truly traceable, truly transparent, and what is very important, in the spirit of bureaucracy reduction, also results in a system that requires significantly less administration. The bill also provides for the conditions for the transferability of data recorded in professional and sub-schemes. It is very important that, in the case of individual systems, a period of processing other than the general rules, where the bill does not propose for the duration of processing, does not specify that it is necessary to review and document there every three years, as we have heard from the Secretary of State. It is very important that the bill takes into account the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act and that the proposal also takes into account the rules of the request for administration, according to which the authority may seek out another body or person if the necessary data or document is provided by another authority during the procedure. Today, it is a very important and central issue to cut red tape and cut red tape in our daily lives, which is also answered by this bill, since it always takes into account the priorities for cutting red tape, i.e., if the data contained in the public register are available for the examination of the application by another authority, it is not possible to require the customer to submit it, but it is practical for the authorities to obtain it among themselves. I believe that this is yet another real step towards reducing bureaucracy. In the course of its operation, the Education Office provides data from its sectoral registers, of course, on the conduct of the administrative procedures of the various public administrations, as the Secretary of State has put it, from family support matters to health insurance, so a lot of things that actually cover our areas of life in the public administration. These data reports, the transfer of student, student, employment relationship, training and other data from natural persons are well provided within the operating framework of a modern, secure IT system guaranteeing data protection in mass quantities on a daily basis. In order to achieve these objectives, it is of course necessary that education systems and educational records are available in an up-to-date and reliable manner. In order to achieve this, it is very important to develop a new transparent educational system structure free of redundancy, and to use IT solutions that result in data accuracy and allow for a safer data link between individual bodies. The bill is accompanied by the need to reduce red tape, in this spirit, in order to achieve the above objectives, the services provided by the Ministry of the Interior also provide a very practical and reasonable opportunity to connect registers through the link code, which is also a priority for information security. This function is facilitated and enabled by the compilation register replacing the identity mark. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the bill also makes it possible, as the Secretary of State has said, that almost all families in relation to the tasks of the Education Office are at a changing pace every year, but there are a very large number of people with one and a half million student rights, of course, and about 300 thousand people in higher education, for which students and teachers, the statutory data can be updated using the Ministry of Interior's personal data and address registration services. And so the systems come together, in addition to practicality, real data protection, real bureaucracy reduction, can really expect more valid results than ever before, and can result in the adoption of the bill. [[11.20]] With the introduction of a single educational identifier, it will be sufficient to identify the person concerned only with the educational identifier, thereby also substantially reducing data traffic, not only bureaucracy, but also minimising data recording and, where appropriate, data entry errors. As a key consequence of the bill, it is also important to emphasise that the personal educational data linked to the educational identifier in the information systems of the Education Office will become more secure from the point of view of information security with new regulations and based IT solutions and contact codes, and thus also the protection of data assets, which, I think, is a serious issue at this time, will become a higher level. The very important aim of the draft law is to create a registration environment, to create a registration environment that ensures that the statistical, analytical and research data necessary for policy planning based on possible educational pathways, learning paths for citizens in the future are available in a accessible manner that meets all needs. This will, of course, provide legislation on the processing of personal data, but a very serious, important issue can also be obtained with more accurate statistics and more accurate research data. The aim of establishing an education register is also, where appropriate, to facilitate the effective identification of persons and, as the Secretary of State has said, to ensure that individuals do not appear anonymously multiplely in certain statistics, and that, in practice, distortions still present in the system, where appropriate, may be completely excluded. As a result, the statistics will show the situation of public education and higher education even more widely in the future. The exact fact and data, we all know, is an even stronger opportunity to develop at all times, and I believe that all the elements of this draft law, all its messages, will certainly serve the whole system of public education and higher education. Of course, the Fidesz Group supports the bill submitted by the Government in the light of what has been said and what the Secretary of State has said. With all due respect, I would also ask the representatives of the other parties to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard very important and to be supported here by the Secretary of State and Mrs Kállai, which can also be supported by the opposition, because a transforming economy and society, where lifelong learning becomes a kind of basic requirement, really requires us to monitor these changes in this way and to express this at a legislative level. Indeed, data protection is very important, this has been said many times here, and it is indeed very important to be able to obtain such well-equipped data, such as education management, education planning and research, which we can really see as valid, which can be used in such a way that, in many cases, I must say, the educational issue that has been grounded in Hungary can get even more from one to the other. However, in addition to the fine words, some things must be remembered when it comes to education records, which we must bring up here from the opposition side. At the end of August, the bomb exploded, according to which they would have investigated teachers in a questionnaire and sent out questionnaires to some 170,000 teachers that had knocked out the fuse. Here, the EMMI explained, although it should be added that these explanations, this washing was rather pathetic. Allow us, but let us believe from opposition benches, let us say, the president of the PDS when he challenged this method of data collection. What was it about? The last survey conducted in Hungary with the involvement of Tarki was perhaps in 2010, which looked at the workload of teachers. At that point, an average educator in Hungary works 51.5 hours a week. It is certain that this number has only increased since then, so it really would have been time for a new survey. Trade unions would also have agreed to carry out this survey by the Századvég, the Századvég, which they often call from the opposition side, and perhaps not without grounds, or are described as a kind of paying place for the government. Well, the Századvég, however, compiled a questionnaire that derailed in the process, and the union rightly objected to the unprofessional questionnaire they were trying to investigate the teachers here, in fact, as a political scan. So it was a huge scandal, and as we've learned now, eventually, thanks to God, there will be nothing in this form. What did they want to know? They would have been curious by the government what kind of newsletter subscription habits teachers have, what trade union members and what other organizational membership they have, what Facebook group members are. So the teachers were right to ask what would happen next, say, to get their phone records, or maybe those who mislike, not in a manner appropriate to the government on Facebook, will fail in the certification process, or the teachers who, say, display opposition behaviour outside of school, will be fired from their jobs. Therefore, it must be seen that these concerns have rightly been raised. They were trying to get this through a government that failed the opposition proposal yesterday for the eighteenth time to explore the pro-state past, that the agent files should be made public. Please, this seems to have become a kind of tradition in the pro-government benches. I promise you in person that if you do this for the 20th time, you will get a nice big foam cake from which such a commie Krampus will come out because you deserve it. So let's stop the process because a government whose head, Viktor Orbán, could be Hungary's Prime Minister for the fourth time has been devious about such plans without having had a national security review! You guys don't seem to like this kind of screening, but you don't like educators. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] They would've just scanned it.
u2018-10-31-34	Congressman! He said one third of his speech without saying a word about the bill beyond his introductory sentence. [[Péter Ungár: This has happened in this House! Zoltán Magyar: This is unprecedented!]] Congressman, it's not your job to judge this, it's the chairman's job, and when he asks, I'll speak to you. I'm asking you to get to the bill. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Take him out!]] And go on from here.
u2018-10-31-35	I hope the guards won't come for me, Mr. President. Then let's go for a jump. [[It's grumpy.]] I will also give you some concrete examples, and we will look at the final provisions! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Government is hereby authorised to designate the body responsible for the operation of the education register in a regulation. Who and what? You should write down what you were thinking about then. In the beginning, it was written that everyone would be consulted, so it would be good to list in detail, for example, the trade unions with whom they sat down and agreed on such a case. But who's that organ gonna be? Some dude's company's gonna do, like, this job? Is he gonna get it? There could be a great deal of abuse in this, Mr. President. Let me point out one more thing here that, let's say, is the basis for my suggestion. This is the KRÉTA system, the Foundation for Public Education Registration and Study, which now received more than HUF 1 billion of HUF 100 million in state aid in 2016, then HUF 444 million in 2017, then HUF 440 million again in 2018, so that we know that one of the companies responsible for the development of this system is Zoltán Faust, who is a friend of Minister Palkovics and former business partner, who was the owner of Zoltán Faust, who won it, won these state tenders and tenders when he was still overseeing education. So I think it's a legitimate question who will get the right to handle this data set. [[11.30]] Then, excuse me, Mr President, but let me put my doubts back here; we must see that in many cases the government is really acting like the Communists in the early '50s, so those who are not with them are considered to be against them. Indeed, Big Brother is seeking total political control, and the school management system of party times is returning. So I am very sorry and, in some respects, I am pleased that Mr Bódis, State Secretary, is here, but these questions, these points, are indeed rather addressed to Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, but this is how it turned out, and then they convey these reservations. So this is half-feudal, and I can call it a half-commie elite fear of educating society, afraid of teachers. It is no coincidence, by the way, that they want to expand political control as much as possible, since we can also say that it is a visceral need of this power to absorb everything and everyone as a little ball. They do not tolerate an independent opinion, and if this is about an education register and the management of these data, let me refer to and bring back examples of life. From Madách High School in Vác to Ady High School in Debrecen, there are unfortunate examples of removals on a political basis from directors, institutional leaders who have enjoyed the trust of both parents and the faculty. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Or the faction!]] That didn't count for anything on the pro-government side. On the pro-government side, loyalty to Big Brother was counted as well as central Ukaz, and they chose, say, a new director. So, Mr President, if I am bringing up such concerns here, please accept that there is a basis for this from real life, from the reality of rugmagyar; unfortunately, I add. We must say that you have made the servants of the Klebelsberg Center or the servants of the current education management, and we must talk about this as often as possible here from the opposition benches. But let's look at some specific questions, so that it doesn't fall behind. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to calm us down and try to answer these points. Article 1 In Section 5 of the Act, they refer to the use of data for the purposes of scientific research for statistical purposes. It is not clear from the proposal that the Education Office will automatically issue such data, or that a specific contribution is required. Then you will have to ask the people who provided this data to see if they can publish it. It would have been better if they had written more about it. Article 3 Paragraph 2 states that the data can be handled until successful identification. It's not written down, Mr. Secretary, what's next. So they have to be kept strictly confidential or secret? We'd like to see these, too. Then the 4th. § 1 states that professional systems within the meaning of paragraph 1 may contain sub-schemes and applications which do not contain personal data specified in additional legislation. It should be specified what they were thinking specifically, and this should then be specifically described in such an amendment. Then the 7th. § says that personal data from the integrated monitoring system used by pedagogical specialised services shall be removed from the register by the controller 20 years after the last use of the pedagogical licence. Another question: 20 years based on what? They don't refer to anyone, they don't refer to anything, it would really be nice if they explained it. So, in better cases, you can use the licence with student rights until you're 23-25, even if you have an SNI, so if you look at it, 25+20 years, that means you'll have this data until you're 45. I think that's a bit of a concern. And then another one, if you've missed Mr. President, is the 13th. §: the 2011 CXC on national public education. The following paragraph (10) is added. It says that the data of a child or student registered in a public education institution will be processed for 10 years from the termination of the contract, and the data of employees and employers will be processed for 5 years from the termination of the contract. 15 of the final provision of this proposal. It's also five years old, and it's usually about everything here. Why do we need 10 years, and if it's 10 years, then why the integrated monitoring system is 20 years? If you cease to be a student and want to return, five years might be enough. This is not entirely colloquial and not entirely logical, so it would be good to be able to answer these political concerns and to hear reassuring answers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Földi is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are writing the end of October in the calendar, and as a practicing educator or former practicing director, I know very well that in October the production of statistics in schools was the most important task: how many children there are in this study group, from how many years old and so on. I also know as a practicing teacher how many times we looked for the child who came from one school to another and we couldn't find out where he was or where he was or whether he was or wasn't released or checked in. When I first heard about this draft law, I was actually happy because I saw that from the age of six to seven years until the university degree, Pubika could be tracked to which school she is at, which university she is at, when she graduated, when she passed the exam and the others. So in any case, I think it is a great step forward that this law has come before us, and it is true that it must be applied from May, but if we adopt this law, I am convinced that this will serve Hungarian public education very well, and not only on public education, but also on higher education. What I consider very important in this law is that, in fact, an educational number, a number can actually be followed up by the child, and that is a key issue. I see guarantees that these data cannot fall into unauthorized hands, so only users who are entitled to this can obtain it, and I am sure that there will be no abuse of these data, because a system is being built to guarantee the safety of the data stored there. So, since both my colleague from Kállai and the Secretary of State have explained the details of the law here, I do not wish to go into it here, we support the adoption of the bill on the part of KDNP, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I, for my part, am going to make it easier for Mr President to lead a meeting, and I would not like to take any detour and turn. I'd like to say the sentence, finally. We would have liked that, and I would have liked it personally, if this proud power and government had not claimed that it was carrying out some European Council directive, but said that it was a long time ago that it had been prepared for this. It is good that the European Union realized on its own two years ago that this should have been done, so a proud national government should have presented it in this way. I do not understand how it can be that in each of these expoes you now refer to the implementation of the directives of the European Union which otherwise wish to go beyond. Many people quoted it as interesting in many ways, and it seems that today is such a day as this Big Brother thing, which was also mentioned in the previous Home Affairs agenda. I always do, but when we talk about the Orwell world, we use it very negatively. I still think there's a 21st. In the first century, there is some place in the process of managing our personal data in a uniform way throughout our lives, how we can use them, and how we can train these data. I would like to say something very important here, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members: there is nothing worse than doing something and then not being able to use it properly afterwards. [[11.40]] So I'm really begging you, I'm asking you, if you're already making a system like this, which, I'm going to say it again, is basically necessary, important and good, about this, if I understand correctly, we've all talked about it, then it can actually be used. We have the personal number system in Hungary today, we have the tax identifier in Hungary, we have the Taj number. Now there will be an educational number for children up to a certain age, quite rightly. Let's just say that if you're doing business somewhere, one office shouldn't send you to another office just because he doesn't have access to that database in some way. So what I really want to say to you is that while, of course, we are absconding with the Orwellian world, Big Brother is watching everything, and from the other side, when we are clients and we want to handle matters, it would be extremely important that the data we handle is used and used by the authorities in a interoperable way. What I don't understand is a little bit into what data is being used and what is being recorded, why in this case there is a need to be a unique identifier for the education card, which, in some ways, is separate from the educational identifier. Maybe it's worth thinking about. So I just wanted to tell you that if there is such a system and there should be such a system, for our part we agree and support the principle, then it would be right and fortunate if we could use it properly. There's a connection to KSH in the material. I'll just keep it quiet: consult the KSH, because yesterday, I understand, 200 people were dismissed from the KSH, and they found out overnight, and they found out in the morning that they didn't have to come the next day. We do not know whether, for example, KSH will now be suitable for database management, or whether we will be witnessing a number of restructurings when the number of administrations drops, otherwise it will cost a great deal of money with terminations and severance payments, and then slowly reverse this kind of bureaucracy on a different logic. We've been through a lot of these things before in Parliament. Overall, I would like to say to you that this has also been mentioned by my better fellow Member, but I would like to say more clearly that we do not see what professional and civil society organisations have been consulted. You're referring to something. Based on our information, we see that there has been no meaningful and serious consultation. However, this is a sensitive subject on which I would definitely consider it important to see the opinion of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. This is typically the topic in which when they say something, I say we accept the situation of democracy, and if they say it's okay, then we're a little more relaxed. You will understand, on the basis of the opposition contributions that have been made so far in Hungary, that we have some reservations when it comes to the management, transparency and legality of databases. I willingly accepted the oath of two of my excellent fellow Members, which they made in their last comments, that everything is all right, and that we also respect Mr Secretary of State very much, as we have said several times in this House, but I still think that our consideration in the final vote is what kind of guarantee elements we will see in this regard in the next period. But, overall, I'm glad to say once again that this bill is here. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, Unfortunately, the bill does not meet the goals set by its authors. The fact is that, first of all, I should start with the simplest problem that this bill does not create a uniform system of education records, since you have quite unfortunately separated different areas of education from each other. Vocational training and adult education, public education and higher education are not in one ministry. As a result, this proposal only draws up the provisions of the Public Education Act, but it does not solve the same problem in the field of vocational training and adult education, which clearly means that the situation in which separate registers and specific data will continue to exist. We are not achieving exactly the objective that the Member mentioned wisely so that lifelong learning can be monitored. It is also difficult to understand why, if that is the case, there is a need for a separate law. There is little reason for this other than how this government views education. Because Congressman said that in October the main task was to produce statistics. When I taught it, it wasn't recently, the main task was to teach children in October and the other months. You have created an education system that is not about children, nor about teaching, nor about learning, but about administration and bureaucracy; about how you can manage and regulate this system by administrative means. This bill creates new data for this, allowing you to know everything in the world. The number of records is increased. Now they really record all the data from the size of the teachers' feet to the third grade history. It doesn't make any sense in the world to keep them in central records. They are not necessary for the functioning of education, they are necessary to enable you to control this system so that you can enforce your own bureaucratic ideas in all its elements. That is what my fellow Members have set an example for. However, the argument that you are saying is also not valid that you are trying to comply with GDPR rules here. I am convinced that this regulation does not correspond to GDPR. Among other things, data flows uncontrollably to other organisations, this is Article 6. It is quite clear from the section below. The government offices are on the 7th floor. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 provides unlimited access to the data without otherwise justification for data processing. Student data will also be transmitted almost unlimitedly in accordance with Article 7. Pursuant to paragraphs 20 (23). There is no provision as to whether data subjects may view their own data or request that they be corrected or deleted. This is a basic GDPR rule. Similarly, there is no provision as to how long the different authorities can store and manage the data sent to them by their students, students and parents. Overall, this proposal does not therefore contribute to data security or to the transparent management of data. On the contrary, it serves the purpose of giving and using almost unlimited data. We also need to add that other guarantee rules are extremely weak, so there are no clear rules as to how the educational office managed a lot of data can now be properly checked and known. There's no independent body to check what's going on here. And we ourselves very much miss what Congressman Molnár said about the fact that he forgot to include the detailed professional opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which would provide us with a briefing on the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. We have to believe that everything there was fine, or even this negotiation has happened at all. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, you inevitably brought a smile to my face when you said that there is a need for all this data and numbers here, so that this will provide a good basis for your policy decisions. I recommend to you the Prime Minister's guidance on the new Public Education Act in 2012, if I recall correctly. Then Zoltán Pokorni, their fellow Member at the time, tried to bring up statistical data to support why this concept of public education was fundamentally wrong, and according to the news, Prime Minister told him that Zoli, you can say the numbers, but I know better. Your education management does not give a damn about all kinds of data, data currently available, and international data, as well as data generated by their own institutions. They control education by force, reorganize education by force. There is no sound policy decisions here, and you have neither the need nor the ability to do so. In conclusion, I can therefore say that this bill is both redundant and, on the other hand, what is included in it is harmful from the point of view of data protection. It's not good for education, teachers, students, students, it's bad for students. Get a little more education and a little less administration. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak on a point of order. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-43	Thank you for the floor. Based on the House Rules of the Decision, I can make criticism of the sittings in a case-by-case speech, which is described in the House Rules. So that's what I'd do right now. It is also included in the resolution rules that the governing president should strive for impartiality during the sitting. I would like to ask Mr President, if my fellow Member Ander has been having trouble pushing other topics in the context of the bill, he should also act against this with the same iron rigour when, for example, the next time George Soros or migration is said, let us say, in relation to garbage shipments or, perhaps, the right to vote across the border. Thank you very much. [[11.50]]
u2018-10-31-44	Thank you very much. Although I would like to point out that this did not meet the conditions of order, it was obviously said. I would also like to say, however, that although it is not in the Rules of Procedure and the Parliamentary Act that it is not appropriate to continue eating in the Parliament's sitting room, it has done nothing but look at the bag during the entire preparation period. Congressman, I do not think that the level of intelligence that you have should be done. Thank you very much. [[Péter Ungár: Thank you. Applause.]] It is now time for the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the minority representative committee. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika KISSné Köles, who greets the National Assembly in his mother tongue, and will also give the first sentences of his speech in Hungarian, which he will translate into Hungarian and then continue his speech in Hungarian. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2018-10-31-45	Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Hvala za besedo! Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Državni zbor! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Lords, fellow Speakers! The National Assembly Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is concerned about national public education and education in Hungary, national higher education and, in particular, the education of national minority educators, T/2940. In relation to the content contained in the bill No.3 and that is why he asked the House Committee to declare the bill a national agenda. Thank you for giving our committee the opportunity. However, among the thorough, detailed sections of the bill on education records on which this general debate is based, there is hardly any reference to the presence of ethnic education in Hungary. With this bill, the Parliament aims to promote the effectiveness of sectoral registers of national public education and national higher education, including personal data, thereby promoting fundamental rights to culture; our committee assumes that it is a goal that supports ethnic public education. The bill mentions us on two points, Annex 1, Annex IV. in point 2 of the second-level examination, where it indicates to the examiner, the chairman of the examination, that he must also have information concerning the experience of the examiner and the examiner in national education, as well as that of the XI. In this regard, it indicates that the national professional pedagogical audit register is published in the structure of the data of the, which it carries out, the national minority task. Yet, we consider that the question must be examined on a number of sides by our committee. It means recording public data, both in the public interest and in the public interest, with units of the education register comprising several systems and subsystems. The body responsible for the operation of the education register shall also process the data of natural persons in the educational register as well as in the public register. Beyond the identification of natural persons, the verification of personal data or the provision of updating processes, timeliness and management of data, it is good that the education register, established in electronic form, functions not only as a card data. Data recorded in the education register are important for ethnic communities and those involved in ethnic education from several levels. It is important for organisations involved in the organisation and management of public education, where appropriate, for certain research and studies, if a target audience, in our case, has access to credible data on the age group, groups or even the actors in higher education of nationality, and in many cases it can provide communities with conclusions to detect faulty elements and phenomena and to induce development. In point 1 of the bill, clarify the purpose of the law in the language of the law. The bill is 2. §2 of the Act lists which data the body responsible for the operation of the education register treats in the educational register. In addition to the 14 data, would the nationality of the,, be difficult to manage? The public-credit register established in Hungary and, of course, the body responsible for the operation of the Hungarian government in Hungary, records citizenship and citizenship between the data of the natural person. I am happy and proud to be a citizen of Hungary, I have no Slovenian citizenship, I live here, I have no idea of moving anywhere from here, but let a public register know that I am also a Slovenian national! Article 3 § 1 is not unique in the case of persons belonging to nationalities, since they contain personal, taxable, social security records in Hungary. The bill is 4. §2 of the Act lists the professional system records of the education register, one of which is the information system for public education. After arriving after 30 years of teaching work, I know exactly how many good records can help a school, institution manager, teacher, professional service provider and pedagogical service. For example, it has always been important for me that my students, whom I started as a high school graduate in life or in the direction of their further studies, where they are present, that they are present in the different mazes of life. The follow-up was not easy to do without registering, but it was not an official effort, but I wanted to gather information on the use of four to five years of work, effectiveness or inefficiencies and effectiveness, with the aim of making good use of them in the upbringing of further generations. At the same time, I know that data reporting, especially if requested suddenly and quickly, gives a significant amount of work to the staff responsible for reporting. It is important to store and store authentic and up-to-date data in the system records of the educational register. For me, it's number four. I once again felt a lack of nationality in any of the sub-schemes. Today, some 80 public education institutions are maintained in Hungary by national or local minority authorities. In another nearly 300 years, national education and education is also carried out at the Klebelsberg Center and in public education institutions maintained and managed by the schools, but also in vocational schools and vocational schools in the county. Through the Hungarian legislative background and central budget support, ethnic communities can report on opportunities that have made a very significant progress in institutionalised mediation of ethnic language and culture. With these we want to live well, preserving our language, our cultural values, enriched Hungary, and also the cultural palette of Hungary. For this reason, I saw a striking lack in the list of professional system records in the education register, for example, that, in addition to the registration of compliance with the conditions of paragraph (1), let us say the conditions of the Hungarian state scholarship, the same ethnic scholarship was not included in the register, although it was also given by the Hungarian State, in principle it could form part of the register. But is it part of it? Does a student, for example, become a member of the German nationality, take up education in a German language school type from kindergarten to graduation, take part in the records of children's and students' records? This added value is a very diverse consequence and peculiarity for a specific person, but also, of course, for a person who is a member of a nationality, because of his small number, he/she is involved in complementary minority language education and nationality education. For example, in the analysis of the results of the national student performance measurements, I would like to state with my own mind that he is taking part in ethnic education, today not so much because, at the beginning of my teaching career, the Hungarian language knowledge of the ethnic students was somewhat lower than that of their fellow Hungarians, but because the ethnic students in our present system participate in extra 6 hours of ethnic language and ethnicity education hours, so their burden is much more. [[12.00]] One of the aims of the establishment of an education register is to monitor lifelong learning in a uniform and overall way; student-student life-students studies can reveal that it can also be a guarantee of survival in the case of nationalities. Institutionalized public education does not work without employees in the pedagogical profession, without teachers and educators, but without pedagogical experts and consultants. It would be appropriate to include ethnic teachers in the education register on a separate basis, or at least to keep a clear record of their quality. It is also important to clearly identify those in higher education education education, their subsequent contact with educational institutions, as the average age of teachers in ethnic education assumes the regular appearance of new colleagues who have recently graduated. Job-sellers and job-seekers could find each other through the education register. In our view, it is very useful to have the nationality register of experts visible and traceable within the national register of public education experts. The field of nationality education and education can be found among the selected fields and disciplines of the national register of experts. With the aim of identifying the relevant professionals and the various state scholarships and bonus schemes that have recently been introduced, the task of nationalities can be very stimulating for the new generations, which I hope will be used by national minorities. Our sensitive area is the further education of nationality educators. The register of further education could also have been included in the education register as a whole. The bill before us is 6. §2 of the Act refers to the number of persons who provide data in the education register. Thus, primary and secondary schools, national authorities and institutionkeepers also perform ethnic tasks, since, as has already been said, some 80 public education institutions are maintained by national minority authorities, while other state-owned schools teach ethnic languages and are the survivors of the culture of a nationality through its use in everyday life and holidays. In the single education register to be introduced, the existence, identification and traceability of nationality education, ethnic students, ethnic subjects, ethnic teachers would be a great help for all relevant and interested institutional actors, but also for organisations dealing with nationalities. There are certainly some who wonder why nationalities have to be so concerned. I think that the presence of nationalities and the political, economic and cultural concern with them in a country is not only a measure of tolerance, but also an appreciation for the work of a community of other peoples in their home country and not elsewhere. Among the Hungarian nationalities, many of us have centuries of history behind us in this country. Here, we would also like to ensure the future of our offspring belonging to our nationalities, which is why even the bill on education records is important to us. Hvala za vašo vljudno posornost! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties and from the national advocates.]]
u2018-10-31-46	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First of the Jobbik Group, I would like to speak to Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2018-10-31-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my general introduction, I would like to emphasise once again what my colleagues before me have already indicated that Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure should be amended. C.E., since Jobbik is the 21st century. It is an extremely important party of the century, the type of data-based decision making that I personally have a great supporter in the Hungarian Parliament, and this dilemma must be resolved in such a way that the aspects of data protection apply in this respect. I would like, in practice, to draw the attention of the honourable Secretary of State to the field of higher education, or I will have a specific question. So, on the one hand, it was stated in the explanatory statement that this system will facilitate this data-based decision-making that I have already set up, both at the level of sector governance and at the lower levels. I would respectfully ask the Secretary of State to intervene in this matter so that the academic leaders in the university world have more smooth access to these data than before, because I have received a lot of indications that since the introduction of the Chancellor's system, this could be done a little more smoothly, and that the academic leadership will also receive the data that they will definitely be able to receive in time for joint decision-making. So on this matter, I would like to ask for the intervention and attention of the honourable Secretary of State. And I would also like to ask a specific question in Annex 3 to the Act concerning the College of Higher Education. I would like to quote the Annex: the College of Higher Education contains the following personal data. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Officials, rectors, chancellor and others, educational identification numbers and, failing this, surname and first name. This is not entirely coherent here, because the general justification is that everyone has an educational identification number. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-31-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will also have a two-minute speech from the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató, please.
u2018-10-31-49	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would just like to respond to one element that has been raised by the spokeswoman, and I think it is very important that we think about it or think about it. We all know that nationality data are not included in this register because the registration of nationality data is banned today by Hungarian data protection rules. Not necessarily here, in this legislation, we cannot ask that, the Ministry cannot go against the data protection rules here and now I find myself in the unexpected role of defending the current government. That is why I would not have asked for a word, but I wanted to indicate that, if there was, by the way, a need for national minority advocates, national representatives and the committee itself to deal with this issue in general, whether national data could be included in public records, how this should be done, what guarantees and in what way, then I am sure that both sides of the House are ready to discuss such a proposal, but the condition is that we amend other legislation, of course the data protection law.
u2018-10-31-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-51	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I thank you for all your opinions, all your contributions, the supporter and the critic. I think that this is an important law, which is the situation of education, higher education management, strategy creation, methodology, if we do it right, it will change it, and it will be able to place it on an objective basis. Therefore, I think that all critical remarks are important because there must be a common interest in being clear. I'm sure there's a common interest in these data being handled safely and without access to unauthorized data, but with access to all authorities. Therefore, let me make my request and propose that what has been made clear or is a problem of interpretation, then make this law better in relation to it by means of appropriate so-called amendments. The Education Office is currently operating a number of databases, two of which are certainly outstanding, one is KIR and the other is FIR and the other is higher education. [[12.10]] Obviously, when we look at specific questions, it doesn't matter how credible those data are. Let me give you an example. In the summer, I learned from the press that the number of people in Hungary who have an absolutorium was around 94,000, but they did not receive their diploma or diploma due to a language exam. I wanted to follow up on the question. After I went after him, I got that it wasn't enough, only sixty-some-thousands; that was an awful lot. Then, when I was able to look further into the question, it turned out that half of these fellow citizens had a language exam, but there are certain courses that require special, so-called professional language exams, properly regulated. I think the problem is that we have to investigate this, the problem is that we do not know the real data, and that is why we cannot respond in a good way to such problems by regulation. I am convinced that, when I know the final data, it will be significantly lower, and we will be able to take measures to make this extremely high number of 90,000, which is roughly equal to roughly 280 000 students in higher education, which has gone down to roughly 30,000, but even that is a lot... it is important that this bill is just an example, and I think that this bill will help us in a lot of ways not to go to war with numbers, not to play games, but to make decisions based on real numbers. The bill was in consultation with all professional organisations that play a decisive role in education and higher education in any way. How much their opinion appeared in the bill is another question. In the GDPR case, I can say that the GDPR has made the occupation of these matters mandatory, but this bill is not just about that, it is more than that. On the one hand, there has been a need for a single education system, as Mr Molnár said, and I absolutely agree with that, and on the other hand, I think that there is always something to it when we are dealing with a specific subject. GDPR was one of the reasons why we should have dealt with our data, data and databases, their management, their security, guarantees, and we wanted to use this opportunity to create a single system. Otherwise, the data of adult education must be included in this, including data of those in national education, but obviously with the austerity that another law makes possible for us. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for their active participation, for supporting and improving contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-31-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for submitting amendments remains at 16:00 on Monday, 5 November. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Angola on the publication of the Agreement on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports until the closure of the bill. Government referral T/2925. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-53	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, In order to effectively implement the Foreign Relations Strategy for Southern Opening, we seek enhanced cooperation and continued political consultations with the countries of subSaharan Africa. Angola plays a prominent role in our efforts, where there is a need to facilitate the mutual travel of citizens with diplomatic and service passports in connection with the multifaceted expansion of our relations and the opening of the Luanda embassy. On the basis of the mandate given in the Prime Minister's decision of 15/2018, a detailed expert consultation was initiated with the mutual transmission and opinion of the draft contracts, resulting in the text of the agreement acceptable to both parties. The text of the agreement was initialled by Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade on 14 February 2018 in Luanda. The signing of the contract was authorised by Government Resolution 1362/2018, which signed the agreement on 28 September 2018 by Minister Péter Szijjártó in New York. The conclusion of an international agreement is an important tool for increasing the capacity of Hungary to enforce its interests in the region. The government's presentation serves to achieve this government's goal. The agreement was signed in Hungarian, English and Portuguese, and the law publishes the authentic Hungarian and English text. The agreement consists of 17 articles and contains detailed rules for holders of diplomatic and service passports in Hungary and Angola for a visa-free stay of 90 days within 180 days. The purpose of the agreement is therefore to allow Hungarian and Angolan citizens who have diplomatic or service passports to travel to each other without a visa in the case of journeys of less than 90 days. Thus, by concluding the agreement, stakeholders can organise short-term travel without the administrative burden of handling visas. The signatory parties shall, of course, undertake to comply fully with the laws and other provisions in force in the territory of the other Party. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-55	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In February 2018, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, reopened the Hungarian embassy in Luanda, Angola's capital. This announcement is a new chapter in the government's earlier Southern opening. Relations with Angola are good, bilateral trade traffic increased 20 times in 2017 in a year, thus exceeding $80 million, and security cooperation is also strengthened by the two countries. In order to further develop enhanced relations effectively, it became necessary to facilitate the mutual travel of citizens with diplomatic and service passports, which were agreed by the two parties on 28 September 2018, when the Agreement on reciprocal visa waiver was signed in New York, as has been said. This Agreement governs, inter alia, the scope of the visa waiver, the method of crossing the border, the duration of stay in that country and the relevant obligations and rights. The agreement shall also include the right to shorten or interrupt the stay or stay of a national holding a passport as defined in Article 1. In addition, the agreement may be terminated by either Party by written notification by diplomatic means. Furthermore, the Agreement is fully in line with EU law, since EU Member States may grant visa waivers under their respective competences to nationals of other Member States who have diplomatic or service passports. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, I would like to ask you to support the publication of the bilateral agreement signed in New York. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. There you go. You have the floor. [[12.20]]
u2018-10-31-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, As has been said so far, the Parliament is negotiating an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Angola on the mutual visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports, which I am providing on behalf of the Jobbik faction for our support. The agreement is indeed part of the government's program of opening the South. Over the past one or two years, the Hungarian government has paid great attention to Angola. However, I have to mention here that there was an opening of a trading house here, which in 2017 was closed without justification, along with several others opened under the programme. This is not, of course, the subject of this Treaty, but only shows that there is a great need for further development of relations with Angola, which is a truly impressive economic development. Here I would point out that Angola has very rich oil deposits, so it has become a very important partner for our country, of course. On behalf of the Jobbik faction, we assure the government of our support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-31-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This is the agenda where, in principle, opposition representatives do not have to comment at length. I'll do it for two things. One: I would like to make a little joke about the fact that this proposal came before this House at knight's speed. We're happy for you. I don't want to quote a couple of contracts that land for years, relax in one of the drawers, and this, we've seen, is practically in a month's time in front of the House. This shows that the opening of the South is taken very seriously, and Angola is a serious matter. But I would like to say that this was the day when you were signed, Mr Secretary of State, when Minister Szijjártó had just lectured the whole of Europe on how to behave in various matters. At least half of the Security Council has been violated and hurt in some way. And as far as we heard from the inner circles, there was a feverish search for solutions for those few days, because Minister wanted to negotiate bilaterally, but no one wanted to sit down with him. The Angolan signature seems to be a good thing. In addition, we have seen the news of Origo, which could not be accused of otherwise anti-governmentism, which, in practice, was able to signify the importance of negotiations with the President of the Red Cross at the UN General Assembly of Péter Szijjártó. By the way, I'll keep it quietly, since we've been outside politics and there are still expert representatives in this room, it's also peculiar that the Prime Minister hasn't gone to this type of thing many times. However, it would be worth taking seriously this type of cooperation of the world, and we believe that these should not necessarily be seen as harming Hungary, but rather that, if there is peace in some parts of the world, negotiated problems can be solved, then these otherwise seemingly salt institutions are very important. The other thing I would like to say about the matter is that we are now saying in this Chamber that we are in favour of it, as Jobbik is in a Council decision of 2001, which lists third-party decisions in the visa-free and visa-only lane. Angola is in the visa-only band in Europe. Under the rules of the Council Regulation, of course, a State may decide to take over from this and to overwrite this kind of regulation in a bilateral manner. So what I want to say is, let us say it again in this Chamber, and we will support the fact that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament, has decided to consider Angola as such a reliable partner, and considers it so important in relation to the opening of the South that it will highlight it from this band. On this basis, that is what I wanted to say only here in the debate, and we will also support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] No one has applied for any further speeches. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to point out briefly that this bill will be presented to the committee next week. It is a limited concession, and this is very important to emphasise. On the one hand, it only applies to service and diplomatic passports, so we do not take Angola out of the countries subject to visas, but we limit it to a narrow circle. In addition, the stay is limited in time, since in any 180-day period only 90 days will be allowed to stay in Hungary without a visa. Thank you very much for the constructive comments, and then we will continue to work on the committee. Thank you.
u2018-10-31-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is still possible to submit amendments on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. There will be a general debate on the bill for amending certain laws on the subject of foreign affairs administration until closure. The government referral is T/2935. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you are, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-31-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, On 13 July 2016, the Parliament adopted a law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service, which entered into force on 1 August 2017 in respect of foreign representations managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. With the adoption of the law, and in addition to the classic diplomatic tasks, the task and toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy have not only been consolidated by the creation of an external administration involving the foreign economy and cultural and scientific diplomacy. The law is independent, it includes, in addition to the operation of foreign representations, the basic provisions of permanent foreign service. The present bill aims to address the practical experience of the day-to-day operation, leaving unchanged the conceptual content of the Permanent External Service Act, and also contains technical clarifications. The bill also makes changes to other related laws, which also concern certain administrative issues concerning foreign affairs, which are intended to serve the smooth functioning of the foreign affairs administration and to establish or refine the legislative framework. The amendment of the Act on consular protection allows only the modern electronic route to be available for the prior notification to the consular service of the foreign residence of Hungarian citizens travelling abroad, given that the number of paper applications that are otherwise minor can be received by post by delay, at the time of the relevant journey. Thus, the Hungarian citizen travelling abroad travels in the mistaken belief that he has taken the necessary measures to facilitate the provision of consular protection by mailing the paper sheet. At the same time, the consular service will not be able to hold the necessary data to ensure protection on account of delays in postal delivery. The financial assistance to troubled Hungarian citizens can be provided by the consular officer only in the form of a refundable return loan. One of the prerequisites for the payment of the return loan is that the applicant is not in a position to ensure his or her return on his or her own initiative or with the help of his or her relatives. Experience from the consular service shows that a significant part of Hungarian citizens in distress cannot be granted a return loan, as there are no legal preconditions for it, but they may also be justified in addition to information, advice and consular assistance to organise their return journey, by means of a small amount of non-refundable financial assistance covering their basic needs until their return. This is the objective of financial support up to a maximum of EUR 20. The amendment to the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act is mainly aimed at technical clarifications, as I mentioned. These take into account the experience of a year since its entry into force. The amendment settles the status of those with a travel ambassador's address, defines the institution of the traveling ambassador and sets out the framework for the provision of tasks. The proposal abolishes the minimum age for schooling expenses, which will result in a child receiving pre-school education regardless of age being entitled to a schooling allowance, which will in particular be of great help to those leaving their children alone. [[12.30]] With the adoption of the proposal, it will be possible for the Ministry to advance the cost of care on a fair basis in the case of healthcare services exceeding HUF 1 million. The amendment is justified by the fact that, since the entry into force of the Act, several requests for fairness have been made to the Ministry's administration regarding the payment of a high amount of medical bills. The Ministry has repeatedly exercised individual fairness in these cases, but the adjustment of the threshold and the regulation of repayment have become necessary at the statutory level. A further substantive amendment is that those who are posted as professional diplomats under the law on the service of professional staff of law enforcement bodies and the Law on the Status of Patrons may be directly assigned to the posting body. Under the rules currently in force, this cannot be resolved, but in order for these persons to be able to begin their preparations and placements at the placement body, they must first establish a government service with them, which creates an additional administration with the employer. The proposal also addresses the issue of employment for technical staff. Jobs in the administrative and, in particular, technical external representation classes, such as drivers or chefs, caretakers, are typically filled by employees working with the Ministry, who are typically appointed to manage government affairs. However, the possibility for these workers to retain their employment permanently has been identified, which will be possible if the proposal is adopted. The amendment also extends the scope of the right to an internal tender within the posting body. As a result, employees of the Central Office managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and employees of companies whose ownership rights are exercised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs may apply for permanent external service by means of an internal tender. The proposal also settles the level of remuneration in the case of an accident at work, a road accident and an occupational disease. In addition, as a result of the successor of the Balassi Institute, the amendment also regulates the Hungarian culture distribution and the teaching of Hungarian teachers in foreign higher education institutions with a scholarship relationship with the Ministry. As a result, those in a guest education scholarship relationship also become insured under the Act on Social Insurance and Private Pensions, as well as the rules on the use of treatment abroad. The bill, as I have already shown above, seeks to address the practical experience of the day-to-day operation and the last year's application of the law, as well as technical clarifications in both the Foreign Service Act and the Foreign Affairs Administration laws, which, however, do not change the concept of the law and its original regulatory objectives. However, they allow our representations and workers to represent Hungary's interests and values in a flexible manner and at a high level. I apologise for having to give such a technical description, but the proposal for an amendment of the law itself is highly technical, and this is in line with that. I ask for the support of the bill, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-65	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The new Foreign Affairs Act was negotiated by the Parliament in spring 2016 and revised about a year later on on the basis of the experience of the period until then. Now, after another year and a half, it is worth reviewing again what changes are justified by the accumulated experience. However, before doing so, it is worth looking back at what has already been done. The purpose of the new Foreign Affairs Act was to include a single system of legislation governing the external administration, which includes the foreign economy, in addition to the classic diplomatic tasks. By creating it, we have repaid a significant debt going back to the regime change. The aim of the bill was to ensure the rapid responsiveness of the external representation network and to establish a stable, uniform and transparent external service system. It has introduced a completely new system of remuneration, which significantly enhances the financial prestige of diplomatic personnel, including clear, easy to control and effective flat-rate reimbursement. A total of seven laws were affected by the 2017 spring amendments with the primary aim of further strengthening the social security of the families of those posted. The amendments before us are also largely technical, as has been said, which proves that the original concept of the law, its internal system, has stood the test of time. I do not wish to list all the amendments now, which are largely more precise provisions, such as the statement that removal expenses for posted diplomats are exempt. Some of the amendments concern the consular service, for example, in the future it will only be possible to report the residence of Hungarian citizens abroad by electronic means. For Hungarian citizens who are in trouble abroad, the consular service in the future, in addition to the consular loan that must be repaid, can provide non-refundable financial support of up to EUR 20. However, those Hungarian citizens who travel to dangerous areas despite the warning of the consular service will now pay the cost of their possible evacuation. The bill also regulates administrative issues for foreign affairs, such as flat-rate reimbursement for spouses serving abroad at different foreign representations or the fact that preparation for permanent external service may take at least one month, up to a maximum of six months. In the future, it will also be clear that those posted and their relatives can apply for a loan from the sending institution to advance a medical bill of more than HUF 1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In recent years, the government has expanded the network of Hungarian foreign representations at an unprecedented pace, and the damage caused by eight years of socialist governance is to be corrected. The new Foreign Affairs Act has addressed problems such as the financial appreciation of diplomats. At foreign representations, the amount of personal benefits was nearly doubled. Both the original law and its amendments last spring were supported by a large majority of Parliament. Please support the proposal again this time. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The bill on the administrative amendment of certain laws before us on the subject of foreign affairs is essentially trying to solve problems arising from practice, which, by the way, have already been indicated in the debates that they will cause problems. Here, as my honourable Fidesz fellow Member, Mr Sigmond Barna, who was before me, indicated, it was a very important step when a single law was then passed the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign services, which was then published in the Hungarian Gazette on 23 June 2016. Indeed, this law was very necessary, since this area was previously regulated by several separate laws and regulations. However, during the preparation of this law, we have also noticed considerable haste and lack of consultation, and I must note this. This was also seen in the fact that certain provisions of the law had not yet entered into force and had already to be amended. So here is the kind of communication of this law that this is a success story, and in this respect, I think it should be treated with some self-criticism. But it is very right that we respond to it, and this bill is also going to correct these practical mistakes, and we hope that it will, of course, remedy them, and we will ensure our support in the name of the Jobbik faction. [[12.40]] I would also like to mention a detail that was included in the introduction of the Secretary of State and in the exposé of my colleague before me, namely that the return loan is often not available to a significant part of the troubled Hungarian citizens, based on the experience of the consular services, as there are no legal preconditions for granting this loan. This financial support up to EUR 20 is a new element that, in our view, is a very good goal. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a question that this EUR 20 represents a very different value in different countries. In this case, without a particular burden on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, I would consider one where, at least, let us say, country bands are defined in this case, because in a country such as Romania, EUR 20 represents a completely different value than in France. I think that in this case it might be worth adjusting this value to the real facts in some way, or I could ask the Secretary of State that this financial support, if I understand it correctly, would not replace the return loan, but an additional allowance that would be granted to the troubled Hungarian citizen even if he did not otherwise meet the legal conditions of the return loan. Thank you, with such comments on behalf of the Jobbik faction, we assure you of our support. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-31-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative and technical amendments that are most important were highlighted by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Member. I would like to stress that the law came into force in 2017, and this one year gave us the opportunity to make these amendments on the basis of the practical experience of applying the law. It should also be pointed out that the conceptual content of the 2016 LXXIII. These amendments do not affect the law. What I consider to be one of the most important points of the amendment is that, based on the experience of the consular service so far, it is necessary to present in law the financial responsibility of the Hungarian citizens who have been rescued by the consular service in a crisis situation for the costs of evacuation. The consular service shall provide regular and substantiated information on the security classification of individual countries and regions publicly available on the government portal. As a result, the costs of evacuation by the consular service of Hungarian citizens and their immediate relatives who remain outside in areas considered risky and not recommended for travel are currently financed by the Hungarian State. Despite the consular information provided to Hungarian citizens, the consular service intends to continue to assist our countrymen travelling to or staying in dangerous areas with all available means and to take all necessary measures to ensure consular protection in the event of a crisis. At the same time, the personalised costs of rescue should be charged to Hungarian citizens with insufficient care. The fundamental aim of this amendment is to increase the responsibility of citizens and to promote this. What I would also like to point out is that the amendment introduces the institution of the domestic preparation staff. Domestic preparation staff will provide an opportunity for those returning from the multi-annual external service to be effectively and smoothly reintegrated into central departments. This is extremely important. The provision also sets out the status and remuneration of former displaced persons. It should also be pointed out that since the entry into force of the 2016 Foreign Service Act, several requests for fairness have been made for payment of a high amount of medical bills to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The Ministry has repeatedly exercised equity in these cases at the same time, but the adjustment of the threshold and the regulation of repayment have become necessary at the statutory level. The fundamental aim of these amendments is to further strengthen, build and complement the operational efficiency of delegations and permanent external service from its experience in the application of the law, and I would therefore like to ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, We are talking about a very important legislation for a wonderful profession. When we think about our own lives, there are very few professions or places where we see them, we think that, according to our history, someone decides to become a teacher, decides to become a space researcher, decides to become a diplomat, and it's a career. It's one of those things where people consciously prepare for this. We know from history that if someone did this right, they were not simply a public servant whose life was regulated by various laws, but they were indeed a profession, and some diplomats, some serious ambassadors, were able to write history without, by the way, being directly involved in the segment of politics in which we are Members of Parliament, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or employees of the Ministry. It is indeed a profession, and from this point of view, I listen to the speakers before me, and I also listen to Mr. Secretary of State, who is obviously one of the most spectacular actors of this, as he has completed the peak of this, the Vienna Diplomat Academy. As in the world, there are very few places in Europe higher than this, where you can learn on this track. No one raises the simple question that a law on this administration will be adopted on 13 June 2016 which will enter into force in August 2017 and, meanwhile, will be applied twice to this law. So, before the entry into force, the various sections of this law will be amended twice, and then, by the way, at the end of October 2018, they will say what a success it is to be able to touch this thing again. And I'm saying I don't think it's right. It's a profession where speed is not a success. This isn't Formula One. There are rules to this. This cannot be done with the technique that you do in certain places in Hungary. It's got traditions, it's got habits. There are people here who may not support you culturally, but in another sense, they are an extremely serious authority in that region. You can't rush this thing like that. What I would like to say is that it is indeed true in this foreign affairs administration that it is worth taking more small, well-founded steps. Believe me, there will be diplomacy in the world after you, and there will be diplomats after you. The world isn't always going to be like this now that it's going to be you. That's not true. We think it's gonna end faster, you think it's gonna end more slowly, but it's all over, you know, and you still have to regulate this area in a way that something can get out of it, and you don't have to go into politics like this. Again, we're talking diplomats. Believe me, these people are willing to serve you, doing their job in your professional capacity. There is no need to destroy them in different administrative ways from this point of view. We're talking about amending six laws. I think we should take four of these separately. As for the consular part, we agree. So we've separated four, and I don't care about that, the sja, the social security and the budget. In the consular part, we agree, although I myself have noted this EUR 20 thing and I would like to add one more. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, who's going to consider being indiscreet in a crisis situation. It is not a prudent way to go there in the first place, because what goes to the cottage when there is a crisis, but it may be in some form that we consider it different if someone is not acting prudently. [[12.50]] So I see a certain subjective element in this, but once again, it's probably not going to depend on the fate of the world. However, it is a little more exciting for me and for us, as regards the regulations concerning the sections of the foreign affairs administration. I ask the rhetorical question as to why internal candidates should be expanded so far, the foreign minister could do it at any time if he found something excellent in his own portfolio. I do not particularly see the reason, unless it is about someone who needs to be involved in this matter now, so I do not understand why the circle of internal candidates should be revalued and regraded in this form. It is not entirely clear to me, for us, that if someone in the preparation phase receives such a percentage of the currency payment, I see no particular tragedy and problem in this, but I do not understand exactly and it is not clear why this was the case now. However, I see it very, very differently than the KDNP congresswoman, who spoke before me, which is the reserve... I was looking for the exact word, but now suddenly I can't find it. I prefer to see this as a first step in soft firing for a high-ranking civil servant with whom the government can't do anything when it comes back. So if you look at this pass carefully and read it, it's for me that it's mandatory to offer it to him, but not necessarily at the wallet, not necessarily in the same job, in accordance with his position and degree, and if he doesn't accept it, you can say good-bye in five days. So, while I understand or understand your argument that this is such an excellent thing, I actually see this as a matter of fact, in the case of some of the priority diplomats who cannot be carried forward or carried along with them, this proposal is more about the further tilting of them in some form. We are pleased, and we would like to ourselves, as the better Member has said, that we have done a lot in the last year and a half not to accept those two amendments, one of which is the support thing for children, we are glad that they have realized, obviously not by that name, because it would not be a fidesz thing to admit that it was wrong to take out the matter, in another logic, in another name, but then, in the end, the child support system is in it. But tell me one thing: who is this part of this bill about? I will try to read it out:. The child who has received preschool education, who has completed his primary and secondary education, is entitled to a schooling allowance for a child under the age of twenty years, including if the child continues his studies in Hungary, but is living in a station in a country neighbouring Hungary. I don't think there are too many options, so it's probably about someone. If anyone in this room knows who has this provision of the law, then I'm happy to see it; it's no big deal, but it's not realistic if you think about it, so it's obviously not working at the Canberra embassy. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] we are talking about the child of a coworker who jumps home to Canberra at night, and otherwise Hungarian... Obviously, this is Vienna, Bratislava, in some form from the neighbourhood of Ljubljana, I can only imagine, once again, I do not understand exactly, and go back a little bit to what I was trying to tell you at the beginning that it is a regulation of a larger scale, the regulation of diplomats, whether it is necessary to include this type of actual policy or a man-made regulation. Summa summarum, we will pay close attention to the arguments expressed in the debate, we will pay close attention to the amendments, and we will obviously form our final position, but let me tell you that this area or this profession calls for a career model. So let it really be that someone enters the university in this profession, learns more languages, learns the historical background of diplomacy, and can plan for the rest of his life, regardless of how governments come and go over him, regardless of what we think about different billionaires or other affairs in politics, they do the same thing, because that's what they do, and they do it in the old system, for example, and they have done it in the past period under three different colored governments. If such a regulation could be made, believe me, it is worth much more than, by the way, adapting to one of the diplomat's children, where appropriate, the regulation that we are adopting. And we will talk about our final position later. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-10-31-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-73	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin with the Secretary of State with a question: is there any sort of calculation, or can you tell me how much saving would be, so how much would it be for those who are in such a victim-faultingly dangerous country to be paid if they were to be delivered home? How much does that actually mean? If you could tell us, for the sake of the weaker, what percentage of the foreign affairs budget this would be, that would be good, because I think it would show that there might be a government saving on something that really doesn't have much financial significance, and it's more a result of the self-care argument raised at the housing fund, rather than the fact that they think that the taxes paid by citizens should be saved on foreign affairs. I think that many of these cases could not have happened, I doubt that this is a common occurrence, and I think that the primary task of the Hungarian state is to protect Hungarian citizens even if, say, they went to a dangerous area in an irresponsible way. This is the first question I would like to ask, and I hope the Secretary of State can answer, because this will greatly affect the voting behaviour of our group on the law. The other was a lesser point in the law. There's a traveling ambassador's exact task and what a traveling ambassador can do. This has been clarified in this law, which is basically a good thing, because it's always good to know more precisely what it means and it's been a little bit of an all-important story so far. If you'll allow me, Mr President, I don't know how much this is relevant to the subject, but I'd like to say a small donation: the last travelling ambassador we've heard a lot about was Péter Heltai, who led the Hungary Helps program, whose last diplomatic act before his replacement was, here was the importance of opening the South on the previous agenda, that he went to Africa and then wrote in a Twitter post that I just went back a few centuries, so he was, for example, a traveling ambassador. What he did, why he did it, and why he was replaced, it didn't turn out. So I want you to be a little more specific about what the traveling ambassador is doing, what he's doing, what kind of remuneration he's getting, how much he's got, how much he's got, because these are costs that I think in many cases could cost more than the fact that an iks piece of Hungarian citizen is going to dangerous places, and then this has to be paid. What I would like to say about this overall is that, in relation to these calls for proposals and the specific ways in which ambassadors are allocated, I think that the position as ambassador is also very important because they represent not only the government but also the country abroad. I would be happy, and this is also a broader point if ambassadors and various embassy employees did not spend their time writing letters of readers in foreign newspapers critical of the Hungarian government's policy; I am sure they could have other things, for example, the development of the foreign economy, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered so important, must also be so, or in other ways, the interest of the Hungarian nation. So I think it is very important to talk about how we choose ambassadors, but it is also important to talk about how my fellow Member Gyula Molnár wisely said what ambassadors will do when you are no longer in government. That's about all I wanted to say. The problems raised by the opposition representatives before me will not be repeated, and it will depend on the reply of the Secretary of State and on the amendments received to the vote on the law by the May Other Politics. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-31-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members whether someone wants to apply for a two-minute or a proper speech. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Two-minute speech from Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-31-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I did not want to comment initially on this debate, but my fellow Members, Gyula Molnár and Péter Ungár, moved me to press a button. Gyula Molnár said that everything will end, and there will be diplomacy when we are no longer here. Congressman, when you were finished, there was almost no diplomacy, because you closed embassies, Consulate Generals, you built and emptyed, so there was almost no diplomacy at the time, and in 2010 we were really in pretty bad shape. [[13.00]] I think that, in the last eight years, we have had great success in this respect, too, in the field of foreign affairs, because there have been a lot of re-opening and a lot of new partnerships. The fact that we are amending the law by the way, once you object to our lack of self-reflective ability, we do not want to correct anything, we do not take advantage of the possibility that if we admit that something is not exactly so, but should be a little different, then we will never correct it, because we insist on our own right. Well, now we're gonna fix what life has done differently, where we've seen how they can work even better. You are criticising that we are correcting what is otherwise in need of clarification or improvement. And I would just like to tell Peter Ungár that there are consequences, and that not only do citizens have rights, but they also have responsibilities. It is not that Hungary would not protect its citizens in such a situation. Hungary protects its citizens in such a situation, only after having its own demonstrable responsibility for this citizen, they will have him pay this fee. It's not that you don't protect him. It protects, all services, all consular protection and everything else is available, only then it has a fee if there is any liability that can be shown here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Barna Zsigmond. [[Péter Ungár: Now you can, now you can!]] Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I, too, would briefly respond to Mr Molnar's points. There are not personalised solutions here, but living situations are regulated by the legislation, and so far the legislation and this amendment also meets the opinion of the majority of foreign affairs workers and generally the opinion of the majority of citizens in support. The MSZP may not like this amendment, but the majority of foreign affairs and the majority of citizens do. For us, this is the norm, not that the MSZP may not like something and embarrass, if you will, this legislation as usual. And to my fellow Member of the LMP, I would say that I am proud that diplomats take the trouble and write letters to large Western media who regard themselves as self-respecting, because if Hungary is attacked illegally, then there is certainly a place for us to tell our own right, and our ambassadors and diplomats do this, they say the Hungarian position; if this is possible in the form of a letter of readers, they do so. So I am proud that we finally have diplomats, and I am proud that, despite eight years of socialist governance, we are there today that our diplomats will finally receive financial benefits that they can be proud of and compete with neighbouring countries and even prevent neighbouring countries. Here in the media we have read the lie in the last few days that the Romanian standard of living precedes Hungarian. Finally, the pay of our diplomats is there or ahead of the payment of diplomats from the neighbouring countries, and it is not as it was before 8-10 years, when, indeed, this was significantly cancelled, and very many were ashamed of themselves that the benefits were so bad. This has been settled by the government, and this has been settled by the Foreign Affairs Act, and I hope that, if there are still situations in life that need to be regulated, it must be regulated and responded to the proposals made by diplomats, those in the External Action Service. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-78	Thank you very much. It is up to Congressman Péter Ungár of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-79	Thank you very much. I know I can't instruct the Chief of Staff, but somehow with a red letter, if we could indicate here that Fidesz-KDNP had made a mistake in this room at that time, this was declared by Lőrinc Nacsa from the pro-government benches. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I've said it many times!]] I think it's a holiday whose anniversary I'm going to write in the Google calendar, and I'm going to remind myself of that every year. I would also like to say that I really want to know if Mr Secretary of State can tell you exactly how much money it costs to get someone out of a dangerous situation, and then we will make him pay for what it cost, which is the basic task of the state. I don't think we should save on that, and if we're gonna save on that, it would be nice to know exactly how much we're saving. I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Barna Pál, that they are often attacking the Hungarian government rather than attacking Hungary. For example, there are times when someone disagrees with government policy, but loves Hungary very much. There was one in the Gyurcsány government before, when, let's say, Fidesz went to Brussels and said that because of the state of democracy, or because of what happened in the riots in 2006, Fidesz was right to say that action should have been taken at European level. The police terror, to use the old words, I hope, is fine, when they were outraged at the fact that Brussels was not involved, that was a very good position. The same is true when, for example, with the OBH, judicial powers are reduced and someone thinks that the European Union must therefore act. So there are those who are attacking Hungary, but many people are not attacking Hungary, but the Hungarian government, and they may still be a moderate journalist, because they disagree with Viktor Orbán. It happens, there is one in the world, and it is not the Hungarian embassy's job that anyone representing a political position in an international paper other than Viktor Orbán should then write a letter of reading that this is outrageous and unacceptable. Yes, it is possible to disagree with Viktor Orbán in a very moderate way. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-80	Thank you very much. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gyula Molnár of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-31-81	Good afternoon. Who the hell would have thought this would be one of the biggest debates here today? [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] the management of foreign affairs. In the '70s, Chou En-laj, who was then one of the leading ideologists of the Chinese Communist Party (Development). I'm sure you don't know him, but you'll hear from him. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You, too, in person!]] So Chou En-laj was in Paris and was asked what he thought of the great French revolution. And then Chou En-lai because the Chinese are otherwise wise people; they should read more about the opening of the East for you when we are past the opening of the South, so Chou En-laj said that we are too close to expressing an objective opinion on the events. So what I would like to say to you is that I would like to ask you for a little more restraint when you try to evaluate in a comprehensive way the last 29 years of Hungarian diplomacy, let us say. You know, the problem is, one day someone will be here, and you'll probably be gone, because life will get this guard out of politics, when you can say very, very nasty words about how we're gonna make the world very, very simple. There are a few of us in this room who are engineers, who have some kind of rule system. So a gear, if it's not that big, it's not gonna work. In politics, eight out of ten things are, by the way, like if they were true, but two are not, and if people believe you, then I'm willing to accept that, it works in politics. Besides, it doesn't work normally in life. And what we've been trying to talk about here, by the way, with great respect and no accusations, is that diplomacy could be such a thing as taking diplomats out of this everyday debate and leaving diplomats in a suitable career model to do their job and work normally. A closing thought: they were not talking about the Romanian standard of living, but that Romanian wages outrun Hungarian wages in certain professions, and that is unfortunately a fact. Thank you.
u2018-10-31-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to make one clarification about the speech. Chou En-laj was the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China and was the Foreign Minister at times and was not an ideologist. [[Defiance.]] But every prime minister is an ideologist in his own way. Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray: Yes.]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-83	Mr. President, thank you very much. Thank you very much for the positive comments on the diplomatic career. I myself have been on this course for 25 years, and I therefore think that I have some experience in how important it is that the government has been able to resolve issues relating to foreign representations and permanent foreign services in this law. In fact, we cannot say that this is a rush, since almost thirty years of backlog has taken place with this bill of two years ago. It is also necessary to see that this is a very special law, because it organizes an extremely complex and extremely complex system of relations, which must also be applied globally throughout the world. So, in this sense, directions must be arranged that are different in most countries, from social security to schooling, and it is therefore no accident that some amendments and adjustments have actually become necessary on the basis of the experience of the first two years. I would just like to make one or two comments on specific matters. On the one hand, I believe that the institution of the travelling ambassador is a very important, flexible diplomatic institution, which will continue to be used by the government and the foreign minister. Subject to specific tasks, ambassadors can take part in the promotion of certain goals, taking into account global directions, based in Budapest. The other is how we evaluate prudent or indiscriminate behaviour. Obviously, it is not necessarily necessary to travel to crisis zones. There are exceptions, for example, for travelers for humanitarian purposes, and this is also natural. [[13.10]] But the question of perception and this means moving towards individual responsibility is that, indeed, if you are not careful about travelling to such a crisis zone, you can expect to take responsibility for yourself. In the same way, how the surrounding countries and education, education and education are done for children; I think it is natural for us to provide more flexibility for parents, students and students within the Carpathian Basin in terms of where they are doing their studies. It's a response to real life situations. The EUR 20 issue: it is indeed not a very large amount, and it has a different level of use from country to country. I think it is worth looking at the conditions under which it can be used, but if the conditions for granting a return loan are not met, they are certainly available, and in many countries 20 euros is also a real help to those affected. We will also come back to the other questions later in the Commission debate. Thank you very much for your comments. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday, 5 November at 4 p.m. It is now coming to the next stage. 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament under direct and universal suffrage attached to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976 General debate on the draft law on the publication of Council Decision 2018/994 until closure. The government referral is T/2933. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mrs Judit Varga, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-85	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 16 July 2018, the Council of the European Union 2018/994 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Decision No 13, dated 13 July 2018, which amended the electoral document on the election of members of the European Parliament on the basis of direct and universal suffrage. This Council Decision strengthens the principles of elections to the European Parliament and calls on the Member States to ensure transparency in the electoral process and, as far as possible, the right of EU citizens to participate in the democratic life of the Union by voting in the elections to the European Parliament. One of the main achievements of the Decision is to encourage Member States to offer their non-EU citizens the opportunity to participate in the election of the members of the European Parliament. This initiative already reflects on existing practices that are already applied by Austria, Finland, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom with minor detailed rules. At the same time, the legislation does not guarantee the right to vote of citizens who are not resident in the EU, and even the Hungarian laws in force do not guarantee the right to vote. Mr President, The entry into force of the Council Decision shall be subject to the approval of the decision by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements and shall be notified to the Secretary-General of the Council by the last Member State. By publishing this bill on the subject as a law, Hungary will comply with the adoption of the decision in accordance with constitutional requirements in Hungary, thus fulfilling its obligation to incorporate the decision into the domestic legal order. With regard to the content of the Council Decision, it is important to point out that the result of a more than two and a half years of negotiation process, during which the European Parliament's proposal, which includes the granting of voting rights to non-EU citizens, was strongly supported throughout the negotiations, so that it could be incorporated into the final text of the norm. Since 2010, the Hungarian Government has also consistently declared its commitment to guarantee the fundamental rights of our fellow countrymen living beyond the borders of the country. We believe that the provision of EU suffrage also fits in with the measures we have taken so far, as participation in the elections is the democratic right of all Hungarian citizens. Dear House, I ask you to support the bill on the basis of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-86	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-87	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In July this year, the Council of the European Union amended the framework for the election of MEPs. It is important to note that it is a framework within which Member States have relatively significant room for manoeuvre. Most of the legislation is empowering. It provides for, for example, the possibility of setting the threshold for the acquisition of mandates, but does not make it mandatory. It only provides that the election must be proportionate, but different solutions are allowed from the Hungarian system, where there is a party list, a constituency and a 5% threshold. According to the Council's decision, Member States may take the measures and even, according to the preamble, it is proposed that they take them directly, which are necessary to enable their citizens who reside outside the Union to vote in elections to the European Parliament. These rules are already in place in Austria, the United Kingdom, Finland, France and the Netherlands. For them, the reunification of the Hungarian nation has always been a priority, so we took the necessary measures immediately after 2010. We have also made our conviction clear and this is supported by the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society that there is only one kind of citizenship. Anyone who is a Hungarian citizen must have a say in the affairs of national politics. Almost everyone in this House already recognizes this; perhaps apart from a small group. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important tools for the reunification of the Hungarian nation is the European Union. He's been encouraging people to cooperate with each other for centuries. It allows travel without borders and contributes if not to the extent that we can be satisfied with the enforcement of minority rights. This is one of the most prosperous, lively, peaceful and freest areas in the world, and we want it to stay that way. We are interested in a strong European Union. We need to correct the mistakes that the Brussels elite, which currently governs the EU, has made. This is the best option in the 2019 European Parliament elections. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2019 elections are important. It is important that as many Hungarian citizens as possible exercise their right to vote. The bill will further increase the democratic foundations of the electoral system, and I would therefore like to ask for the support of my fellow Members for the adoption of the legislation. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-31-89	Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, at the beginning of my speech, since I cannot do it at any other time, only to take a very short detour in order to pay tribute to the memory of Count István Tisza, our former Prime Minister. On 31 October 1918 a revolution broke out in Budapest to the Autumn Syros, and the powerlessness of the later leaders led to the tragedy that peaked in the Republic of the Council and finally in Trianon, and just a hundred years ago, on 31 October 1918, István Tisza was murdered by the red mob that Mihály Károlyi aroused. Bless you for your memory. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-90	I'm sorry, Congressman, it's not on the subject, but it's fair enough today.
u2018-10-31-91	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President, also to my fellow members of the Government. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the bill before us, I would also like to state what my fellow Member, Mr Barna Zsigmond, has done. Jobbik thought that Hungarian citizenship was due to all Hungarians from the beginning, and that voting rights are an integral part of Hungarian citizenship. Equality of the right to vote has suffered some damage so far. Now, thanks to the proposal before us and the next item on the agenda, we will be able to overcome this damage. Of course, we can agree with that in principle. In fact, it is not an extension of the law, but rather the provision of a shortcoming to date, the removal of an inequality so far. This is also possible in the Council decision on the election of Members of the European Parliament, which we are now deciding to announce. [[13.20]] Such is the opening of the vote to third-country nationals, which will be discussed at the next item on the agenda. At the same time, I would also like to highlight another sentence of the Council Decision:. In order to encourage participation as a voter in the elections to the European Parliament and to make full use of the possibilities offered by technological progress, Member States may, inter alia, provide for the possibility of prior voting, voting by letter, electronic voting and voting on the Internet, in particular ensuring the reliability of the result, the confidentiality of voting and the protection of personal data, in accordance with applicable EU law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I have only so many problems with this proposal, my fellow Members, and let me repeat that it is a framework that gives considerable room for manoeuvre to individual Member States. Now, from this framework and from this significant margin of movement, you feel it is important to take out one thing, and this is the introduction of the institution of voting in the letter and the provision of this to non-EU Hungarian citizens. I will say it again, so we will not be able to be accused of being insensitive to this matter on any national policy issue, because, of course, we agree with the principle, but it is difficult not to see the intention of hiding behind it, especially in the case of Transcarpathia and the South, against which the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands who, by the way, left the country for the first time because of your disastrous economic policy. There are hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens who may not have, I don't know the exact figures, but there are indeed tens of thousands of Hungarian citizens around the world, and for example in Switzerland, it is a question of what will happen to the United Kingdom, who will not yet be able to take part in the elections. I have tried to find out, but I did not know if Mrs Secretary of State could answer that, I would like to thank or even another fellow Member for what will now apply to Hungarians living in the United Kingdom, because they will no longer elect EU representatives in England or Britain, but the Union is still part of Britain, so I have not been able to find out what will happen there, what will apply to Hungarians living there, whether they can vote for Hungarian parties then. So, only the letter mentions the possibility of voting, while there is also the Internet vote. My fellow Members, I know that there are fears about this, especially within Hungarian society, and this is typical in Eastern Europe anyway. Knowing Fidesz's methods of exercising power and its attitude to elections in general, this is clearly understandable because many people are suspicious of the Internet vote, but still consider it to be the 21st. We have been in the 20th century for almost two decades now, we continue to say and continue to urge Jobbik to do so, and we have done so many times in recent years, too, that this should also be possible in Hungary. If there were examples of the possibility of voting in the letter, which other European countries are in operation, examples of which European country or country of the world the possibility of voting on the Internet could also be given. Estonia is, by the way, the leader in Europe, as I understand it. The possibility of this can be created with sufficiently serious guarantees and security elements. This would be much cheaper, and it would probably provide significantly higher participation in elections and thus greater legitimacy to the elections. Obviously, we cannot bypass the question of voting in the letter, although it does not belong closely, but I am obliged to say that together with it, you will continue to consistently maintain the discrimination in the parliamentary elections between the exercise of the right to vote of Hungarian citizens with no address and no address. So while the Hungarians from abroad, who voted for the governing parties in a decisive way, over 90 percent, can vote comfortably, by letter from anywhere in the world, the hundreds of thousands working abroad, who, I stress once again, left Hungary largely because of your economic policies and during your governance, and who obviously vote for the governing parties in a much lower proportion than the national average, let alone those working abroad, do not have this option for them. A lot of people can't live with that, they can't take the hundreds of miles of travel, the day off, the costs involved, to visit an embassy or a consulate. While, in addition to many other things, it was argued that it would be difficult technically to manage in order to collect voting packages of tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands from even a distant point of the world in Hungary. We continue to think this is important, and therefore we will continue to fight to resolve this discrimination, all the more so, while in another vote in the European Union, there is an extension and a move forward on this issue, and we are bringing tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens into it again. I would also like to highlight the 9/A. Article 4b, that Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the double vote in the European Parliament elections is subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. It is all right to sanction this, but the deterrent to me in this sentence is that the proposal itself recognises the possibility of this principle, that there is some kind of principle for a double vote. [[Gergely Harvestó: Stealing is also possible in principle!]] Stealing is also possible in principle, and there are quite a number of gentlemen here. But the question here is why this system cannot be designed in such a way as to close the possibility of this in principle. So I am not sure that the focus here should be on sanctions, but rather on how to rule out the possibility of a citizen of any European Union giving two votes in some way. I would also like to ask what kind of theoretical opportunities the government sees and what it intends to do in order to close these opportunities. Obviously, it is in everyone's interest that the ruling parties, too, should have no doubt about the cleanliness of the elections, that we should be able to pass only frivolously in favour of opinions that question this, so that we can go frivolously in favour of opinions that raise the possibility that certain persons, whether they are Hungarian or cross-border, could cast two votes in some way. In this case, I believe that very clear and clear provisions are needed. The previous one is related to 9/B. Article 2a, that each Member State shall designate a contact authority responsible for exchanging data on voters and candidates with such authorities in the other Member States. In this connection, I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly how this is going to happen, who this authority is going to be, what security guarantees there will be in this regard. The proposal also calculates a six-week date, i.e. no later than six weeks before the first day of the election period, this authority shall start to transmit to such authorities in other Member States the marked data relating to EU nationals who have been entered in the electoral register in a Member State other than their nationality or may start as candidates in a Member State other than their nationality. The question here is whether, once these data are exchanged, it is possible to refer back to the previous problem, in principle, to change the address of some EU citizen after the exchange of these data, either by registering on the territory of the European Union with no such address, or even by entering another country, or by giving up its previous address, whether a check is carried out after that. Because if the exchange of these data takes place six weeks before the election, then, and this is my main question, what guarantees that there will be no such abuse after that, and that no one can possibly obtain another vote by changing their address. That is, in fact, my most important question, and in this connection, I ask for the answer of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2018-10-31-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2018-10-31-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Some of the situation that came up after a worthy and just reunification in 2010 would also like to be answered by the bill before us and by the practice to be transposed into the domestic legal order discussed in the subsequent agenda. We see that the elections to the European Parliament are approaching, and we see that the international left has already launched its campaign against the national right because we think it is because we dared to say so, and we think that this European Parliament election will be decisive for the future of Europe and for the future of Europe. The European Commission has recently stated in a communication that: "European citizens should be able to fully understand and vote in the light of the political choices they have at their disposal. This means that we need to be more aware of the dangers that threaten our political process. and there is a need for increased transparency in this process. End of subpoena. We, too, agree with the European Commission, and we believe that it is a good thing that we are finally getting to the point where European citizens can finally decide for themselves on issues that affect their lives and their security, and that is why we see that migration will be the most important issue here and the primary breaking point. This will be the main bet and theme of the next period ahead, the EU elections due at the end of May. As my fellow Member, Mr Barna, said, we want a strong Europe of strong nation states. We hope that a Commission, a European Parliament and a Brussels leadership will be established in May or will be established in May to protect Europe's borders and protect its own citizens. This is why it is important that the European Parliament adopted in November 2015 a proposal for a reform of EU electoral law aimed at encouraging the participation of citizens, strengthening the European dimension of elections and improving the functioning of Parliament, improving the conduct of elections in Member States. Since the adoption of the 1976 electoral document, this is the first modernisation of the rules on the election of MEPs, and the granting of voting rights to EU citizens in third countries is one of the many positive elements that would have a major impact on electoral participation. I'm not bringing you the Hungarian example right now, so I'll talk about it later anyway. In Switzerland, more than 1.5 million EU citizens live. This important opportunity is now recognised and, hopefully, many Member States will be able to apply the new provisions after the entry into force, after everyone has transposed it into their own domestic legal order and electoral rules. Obviously, we will discuss this further in the next agenda and discuss the details. Let me quote a sentence from this decision:. Member States may, in accordance with their national electoral procedures, take the necessary measures to allow their nationals residing in a third country to vote in elections to the European Parliament. The Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin, living in non-EU countries, and the Hungarian citizens living in the diaspora, and our Hungarian compatriots, can be considered in the first place in Hungarian terms. I wanted to respond on one thing to Mr Savay, the question in the United Kingdom. If there are Hungarian citizens living in the United Kingdom who do not have a Hungarian address, then they will regain their right to vote in the EU, and although the other citizens living in Britain will lose it with their current exit, these Hungarian citizens will get it back, so they will be able to take advantage of the opportunity that they have given them, and which we will obviously also discuss in the next debate. We believe that we are empowered by the current law, we recognise the binding scope of this Council decision, and therefore the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this bill, and we will be able to continue this debate on the details in the next agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-31-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If there has been a memorial in this House today, let me remember something, too. On November 3rd, 1825 Széchenyi proposed that a Hungarian scientific company, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, be set up, where he offered his one-year income from his estates, forints 60,000 to establish it. After a very passionate speech by Paul the Great of Felsőbüki, he suddenly asked for a word and made this suggestion. It may also be worth remembering, especially if the current government is taking the opposite steps in terms of independence of Hungarian science. Returning to this item on the agenda, I fully understand that, and I think it is a right direction for the European Union to make proposals that try, as they are now called stereotypes, to bring the European Union closer to the population, to European citizens, and to give them more say. So it is to try to encourage how to ensure that the elections to the European Parliament are not carried out with a relative lack of interest, because the participation in Hungary is also extremely low. If I remember correctly, but Mrs Secretary of State will correct me, if I do not say correctly, the overall EU average was about 40-41 percent, and in Hungary the participation was much lower. So in Hungarian it is to increase participation, that more people express their views in the European elections, that increases the legitimacy of the European Parliament and thus the whole of the Union. So, in any case, I think it's the right and the right direction. Then there are a few problems, which have been discussed in more detail here in front of me, that there are some questions, I would like to highlight two for the sake of emphasis, that it cannot be measured by double standards. We've been saying that for a long time. If our cross-border Hungarian brothers can vote by letter, then let us say that a Hungarian brother in London should also give this opportunity, and this will also be true of the European Parliament elections. So I do not see why, as an EU citizen, living in another EU country, Austria, Berlin or Paris cannot vote in the same way as an EU citizen living in another EU country, where appropriate in Romania, Transylvania. This should be considered in any way, when this legal authority is granted by the Hungarian Parliament, it would be worth eliminating this disadvantage in any way. The other is the possibility of fraud, or I could even say that the elimination of carelessness is that someone from Transylvania may, by chance, vote in a letter in Hungary and during the elections in Romania. This will certainly be an important issue due to the transparency, clarity and legitimacy of the elections. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is possible to see how this authority, which is intended to exchange information, works and how it is able to do so at EU level, taking into account such a population, with the participation of so many countries, to create a database that can exclude or guarantee that it will exclude the possibility of voting twice for any European Union citizen, because this can only be ruled out by 100% if these voters are treated in a database or someone compares the names of the voters cast, which raises quite a lot of other problems. So in Hungarian, while the goal is correct, I have a refutable concern about technical conduct, that is what I have just said, the letter vote, the possibility of voting in the letter, and there is a concern that could undermine the legitimacy of the elections even unintentionally, namely whether European citizens can vote multiplely, which is theoretically excluded under the current legislation. So what is the technical solution to this, if the government or the Union already had any ideas for this, or if the Secretary of State was involved in discussions where you can see something from it, we would be honoured if you would give us some information about this here during the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-31-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I will not disappoint you, I promise you, but let me start by saying that it is always worth watching with suspicion when there is enthusiasm in the ruling party and in the government for the decisions of the European Union institutions and the European Union. While from Monday to Tuesday and Thursday to Sunday, the European Union, Brussels, Brussels bureaucrats and all that, suddenly remembers on Wednesday that a wow but urgent EU decision should be published. It is not for nothing, Mr Zsigmond has said the reason: the European Parliament's election is coming, and from this decision you hope to benefit from party policy. You're wrong, by the way. I'll show you this. [[13.40]] What you're referring to and what you're talking about is 9/A. The resolution states, in a conditional manner, the rules allowing EU citizens living in a third country who do not have an address to vote, as well as, where appropriate, Hungarian citizens, to vote. I must add that this is not an obligation, because what is in the preamble, what it proposes to whom, is irrelevant. The rule of law in the European Union is valid, so the content of the legislation matters; the preamble, the justification, the footnote, the table, the press statements of the Secretary-General or the President of the Commission and the mystical legislative intention is not. So I must tell you that the text of the legislation must be monitored. The text of the legislation leaves it to the Member State to decide on this matter. Madam Secretary of State has rightly said that the majority of EU Member States do not apply such rules today. There may be others who want to change, however, this is not an obligation, it is not an expectation, it is an opportunity to decide whether they live or not. At the same time, before deciding on this under the next item on the agenda, it is worth considering this EU legislation in a formal sense. Because what does this legislation say beyond that? It says the same law in its 4th point, the new 4/A. In the case of Article 18, where a country orders a vote by letter, including a letter, or allows a Member State to vote, it shall adopt appropriate measures, in particular to ensure the reliability of the result, the confidentiality of the vote and the consistency of the protection of personal data with applicable Union law. Dear House, All these rules do not apply in the case of voting in the letter according to the Hungarian rules. As you voted in the parliamentary election in the letter, neither the reliability of the result was guaranteed, nor the secrecy of the vote, nor the protection of personal data. Let's go through it. Protection of personal data. The National Election Office drew attention to the fact that when Hungarian organisations across the border, not by way of the money provided by the Hungarian government, collected registration while collecting access to other social benefits in Hungary, they acquired the personal data of the voters, which is a means of abuse of elections. So the protection of personal data is compromised and the reliability of the result is impaired. It also turned out that there was such news that some of the votes that were also passed through Hungarian organisations across the border were broken down, the person was informed or stabbed to the extent that you, my dear friend, did not vote for Fidesz when we discussed this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Well, that wasn't enough!]] This whole system is full of holes. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It wasn't like that!]] , people register, they don't know who the correct registrant is, they don't know, because you can register electronically. He gives us an address, but we don't know whose address that is. Could be his own address, could be the address of the Hungarian organization across the border, could be a Hungarian address, could be an electronic address. And then they send out a letter, and someone sends back an envelope that they fill out with personal information. I have just mentioned that these personal data are also widely available, for example, in Hungarian organisations that are very well-connected with you, for the purpose of social support. Therefore, in these votes neither reliability nor confidentiality nor the protection of personal data are guaranteed. There is another problem, which has been mentioned by my fellow Members. So let's be very clear. What's this rule about? He says it's the new 9/B. If I remember correctly, an authority should be established which is responsible for coordinating with the other Member States and should be made available to each other the voters' data, the voters' data from another Member State. But, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think you're doing? First of all, what will happen to the dual citizens? There's no guarantee of that. Are you going to hand over the data of the Hungarian voters registered across the border to the Romanian and Slovak authorities? It's for the other Member States, isn't it? In Slovakia, where double citizenship is otherwise prohibited and Hungarians are threatened with retaliation? Is this how you think this is gonna work out? How are you going to solve this? Moreover, the register is not suitable for registering the nationality of those citizens. You're registering addresses, but the address, as I just told you, could be any address. Citizenship is not registered. From this point on, there is nothing to prevent a Hungarian citizen living in Slovakia or Romania from voting in the European Parliament elections in Romania and voting in Hungary. So you can't meet this requirement. All in all, I must say that, while, of course, there is no problem with the publication of the resolution, it can be proclaimed, this is a correct electoral law, while the solution that you are proposing at the next item on the agenda, which would extend your fraudulent voting system to the elections to the European Parliament, does not comply with this legislation. I do not envy the Secretary of State when she will have to explain in Brussels why they would otherwise wish to extend the usual general fraud in the Hungarian elections to the elections to the European Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-31-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that the LMP supports this proposal and the next one. I think it is important that all Hungarian citizens should have the right to take part in the elections to the European Parliament. I would like to begin by saying, in response to the words of my fellow Member, Arató, that this will mean an facilitation, in particular, in the Hungarians of Vojvodina and Transcarpathia. I will not require Hungarians in Romania and Slovakia to vote, but I assume that from the point of view of the Hungarians as a whole, it may be better for them to increase the representation of the RMDSZ and the Slovak-Hungarian party in their country, so that more Hungarian representatives can join the European Parliament overall than if they participate in Hungarian. But, of course, they will decide this with their infinite wisdom, and I do not wish to interfere with this; I would just like to point this aspect to my fellow Member, who is reaping. Before I get to things, I would like to say a reaction to my fellow Member Nacsa's speech. In 2010, the nation unification took place, and the Hungarian government allegedly maintains relations with the Slovak government at its historic peak, and the Slovak government is a very big ally of the Hungarian government. Yet, you, under your government, have not been able to prevent double citizenship in Slovakia, so I think that this unification, which you have called, has not been fully achieved. I'd like to keep going. I will come to the amendment, which is the biggest problem for us, but first I would like to say that I would like to say that I would like to be deeply reassured by Mrs Secretary of State that it will not happen that the current Ukrainian government will get the list of Hungarian dual citizens. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not a Member State!]] I understand that. I would like the Secretary of State to state in the minutes that this will not happen, and neither because of the amendment of the law nor as a result of the amendment of the law, we will not tell the current Ukrainian Government who are those who wish to exercise the right to vote by name. I think everyone in this room agrees that it's better to be sure than not. There is a part of the amendment that we talk little about, but for me, it is the most problematic. The amendment states, on the basis of judicial practice, that it cannot be classified as campaign activity during the election campaign period as the basic activity of the state, government or local government. My fellow Member said that this is not a problem on the basis of the next bill. Anyway, the two are on one subject, so I'll tell you this right now, this is completely irrelevant from this point of view. The fact is, I think that if we looked at the letter of the next bill, it would not be a problem in itself. But the thing is, we all know what you're using this for. So it is not a basic government activity that Fidesz is in conflict with its former financiers and would like to talk about it to all Hungarian citizens as a psychodramatic group. So this is not a basic government activity. It is not a basic government activity either, if, say, the Hungarian government has realised that its primary task is to protect our borders and then to do so on the citizens' money, and then to inform everyone about it again and again and again. It's not a basic government activity either. [[13.50]] If, let's say, I don't know, it's about selective waste collection or the fact that in Hungary there are very high abortions, so we have to have access to contraception, then I would say that this is a basic government activity. But what you do as government information is about making very, very restrictive rules for both the EP campaign and across borders about how to do campaigning, what posters can be posted, what TV ads can be, and then you break these rules through government information. So the fact is that this whole amendment, which you are doing with this and the next bill, is being put in here, is only good for trying to break the national consensus so that Hungarians across the border can take part in the EP election. It is only part of this, but I will say this: the position of the LMP is that it is necessary to examine in substance that, in order to raise citizens' rights, as is the case in several EU countries, the election age could be reduced to 16 years. It may be possible to take it down first in municipal elections or in the elections of the European Union. I hope that the government will examine this in substance. These people can pay taxes, and, I'm telling you, there are several international examples where this was introduced, and I think that would be a worthwhile thing. I would like to say one more thing, which has already been raised by several people, and this is the vote on letters and the situation of Hungarians living in Western Europe. I'd like to say something here, a quote. When there was the quota referendum because the issue of voting letters will not only be a matter for the European Parliament or for the parliamentary elections, but there was a problem for the quota vote, you said that it was a moment of national salvation. We all think that because one of our citizens, say in Western Europe, is working, it can still be very important for you to participate in the quota referendum. Nevertheless, the government told these people that they were encouraging everyone to either come home or go to the embassy, try to organize their lives in such a way that they could say no to forced resettlement on 2 October. If this were so important, for example, in Britain or Germany, a man who would have to travel about 300-400 kilometers or organise his day to take part in the election, if you think that the fate of Europe is now decided in the European Parliament elections, or that is the last time that Europe's fate was decided in the quota referendum, then how can we say such a cynical thing to Hungarian citizens? How can anyone who works arrange to come home that day or travel 300 or 400 kilometers to another embassy? You do not want to solve this problem, and my fellow Member Savay has already said so, because you know precisely that Fidesz is the worst candidate in the elections for people who have gone abroad because of the economic activity of Fidesz. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not why they went out.]] Because of Fidesz's economic policy, my dear fellow Member. Hungary does not perform so well for everyone, and people vote with their feet and work outside. Fidesz is the best of these people, and they are doing everything they can to limit the voting rights of these people, so that these people are not able to interfere with what kind of European Parliament should be, what should be in the quota vote or what should be in the parliamentary elections. I think it's very important that you remedy this. I think that you should have the courage to do so, despite the fact that, although LMP has become the second with the votes across the border, it still has not reached 2 percent, yet we are in favour of increasing the voice of these people in the elections to the European Parliament. You should also have the courage that we have and support the fact that, by voting in a letter, citizens who will probably not vote in favour of you will be able to take part in the election. The more Hungarian citizens participate in the elections, the more confidence in Hungarian public institutions, the more legitimacy this Parliament or the European Parliament. So just because someone works in Aachen or Bremen, he's still as valuable a citizen of this country as someone who works in Miercurea Ciuc or as you are, Madam Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Simicskó is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]]
u2018-10-31-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the Group of Dialogue to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the front, I don't fully understand why these two billings were split in half. I think it would have been more practical to negotiate in one, because the two that we are going to talk about in the next bill are connected. With regard to the Council resolution: it is clear that this Council resolution has two objectives: on the one hand, to broaden the scope of those who can take part in the elections to the European Parliament, we support this and to ensure that these votes are conducted in a regular, orderly and controlled manner. The first objective is also set out in point 4 to ensure that Member States provide alternative ways of voting, by letter voting, electronic voting, internet voting, and also referred to by government representatives so that citizens living in non-EU Member States can vote. Fidesz chose quite selectively from this, since it somehow avoided electronic voting and the Internet vote. They're not so eager to include this in the bill that we're going to negotiate. We believe that this would also help to ensure that as many of our countrymen across borders participate in the vote. Here, who have already been spoken of by my better fellow Member, a greater number of Hungarians working abroad would be able to participate if the electronic vote and the Internet vote were also introduced. On the subject of the vote being taken in a controlled manner, we would like the Secretary of State to reassure us on how to remedy it so that a citizen can cast one vote. Security issues arise in Ukraine due to the current tense conditions. How will the Hungarian State ensure that Hungarian citizens will be able to vote safely there? Thank you, and we will express our views on this in the next bill.
u2018-10-31-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. You can also register for a proper speech, and then there is no limit, only 15 minutes. From KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for a word for two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We haven't heard from the Dialogue whether or not they're in favor of this. That's not what the tree said. We are discussing it separately because we recognise a European Union document with binding effect in the Hungarian legal order, and then we will amend three pieces of Hungarian legislation with the next bill. That is why this must be discussed separately. Several people have raised the idea of voting on the Internet and the promotion of this, my fellow Member Savay and you have raised it. Every time, any problems arise, like a urn closing, a queue, anything, they shout election fraud. Now they're promoting the Internet vote. A significant part of the world's IT companies, important security policy experts, say that in terms of anonymity, auditability, legitimacy, it is an incredibly vulnerable and dangerous system. We have seen a great deal of abuse in the Internet polls and in a complete letter voting system. Consider, for example, the presidential elections in Austria, where there were anomalies and re-votes and double-votes that had disrupted their entire electoral system and questioned the full legitimacy of the President of the State. How do we achieve anonymity? If you enter with an Internet identification, you press a button to know who you want to vote for, and everyone on the other side can see exactly who you voted for. If we take the check off, who knows how many times and how to vote? I do not say this, but recognized IT and security professionals say that this system is the least controllable, completely violates anonymity and is otherwise dangerous. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-104	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr Gergely Arató is coming from the DK Group.
u2018-10-31-105	Mr President, Dear House, If you hadn't brought it up, Mr Nacsa, I wouldn't have mentioned it either, but I must say that Congressman has raised the Austrian presidential election here. I am obliged to say that the second round of the Austrian presidential elections had to be repeated because of much smaller mistakes than those which were found in your extremely punchy system in the context of the letter vote. The answer had to be repeated for just as open envelopes as there were in this election, which was decided by the Curia, on which you were extremely offended, at the prime minister level, and which is now legally declared legal by a law amendment to fraud. At the same time, I must say to Mr Ungár that he misunderstood in a sense, because the problem is not that citizens within the Union can vote according to their place of residence according to the current rules. The Hungarians living in Romania are voting in Romania, if they are in both places, it is not impossible, if it is not quite normal, then it can only be a problem. There are already doubts in this case, but this also applies to all other elections. [[14.00]] However, this is not the real problem, but it is the intention of the bill, and this rule only allows third-country citizens to participate in the elections to the European Parliament... so the problem is that your system is inadequate to find out who is a third-country national and who is a non-border citizen within the European Union. It is only because it cannot be verified anyway, because the register, as opposed to the OSCE's repeated recommendations, is not public. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-106	Thank you very much. Now it's time for Congressman Péter Ungár. I just want to tell Mr. Kocsis-Cake Olivio that only one of a faction has a chance after a block of proper speech. Péter Ungár had a proper speech, and the two minutes are, of course, justified.
u2018-10-31-107	Thank you. I would like to end this worthwhile debate, but I was referring to the fact that it is optimal both from a national strategic point of view and in their interest, and I think that the right to vote of the Hungarian population of the countries who are members of the European Union to be as large as possible Hungarian national party representation there. Of course, I do not want to go into the debate here, that I am sure one of the Fidesz Members will respond two minutes to who is the Hungarian national party abroad. That's for them to decide who's invited to the MÁÉRT or who's not. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: You are invited.]] But that's the way it is.
u2018-10-31-108	Congressman Nacha!
u2018-10-31-109	... that in Slovakia, for example, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction does not decide who the Hungarians are voting for, but the Hungarians there. And it has turned away in recent years that the decision of the Hungarians there did not match the decision of the Fidesz-KDNP faction. And how wise they were when they did so. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-110	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Szávay István is next. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-111	My fellow Member Nacsa, the bad news for you is that the irregularities in the Austrian presidential elections did not happen with the electronic or internet vote, but with the letter votes, my dear fellow Member, which therefore weakens your arguments against the electronic vote. Adding to that, we need to look at examples that work well. Why don't we go see Estonia? Why does that work out there? In Estonia, it was possible to vote on the Internet in 2009 and therefore in the 2009 EP election. By then, about 10 percent of the population had chosen this option, and since then this ratio has increased significantly. There was never any problem, no trouble, no abuse, no party called out for fraud. Somehow, they were able to solve this thing, because it was a will. The other: Madam Secretary, I see that you are sitting very comfortably here, but I ask you to respect us by answering the questions that have been raised; and not only in the closing words, because then we can no longer argue with each other. There have been very serious issues here when this proposal was adopted, but it is still about Fidesz-KDNP starting to tamper with the electoral law in some way again, obviously not entirely without ulterior motive. We here, Congressman Nacsa, have called on the Dialogue not to say whether they are in favour of the proposal, and I have not taken a position so far, and we would like to support this proposal in principle, because we obviously agree with the principle itself. But here there have been very serious questions about security, double voting and so on. Be kind and do us the honor of having a meaningful discussion about this now, or you will answer these questions. If you refuse to answer, that means you don't know the answers, then maybe you should have sent someone else here instead of you. But I would like to believe, and I would like to assume, that you have the information that can reassure an opposition Member that it is safe to vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. All I'm asking is that we don't slip into the personal scene. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the floor to Mr Barna Zsigmond for his repeated speech by handing the chair over to my colleague, István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-31-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also ask Mr Savay to leave the personalities at home and, if possible, to spare each other. Several of my fellow Members mentioned the subject that came to the parliamentary elections, which was constantly brought forward there, which, by simplifying it, means that the electoral law puts Hungarians in a position in the Carpathian Basin and discriminates against Hungarians working abroad in the West. I wrote down this line of thought, please listen to it, because the Hungarian electoral system regulates this issue very clearly. The Constitutional Court's decisions are also on this issue, strengthening this system. You claim a series of untrue things in this context. Hungarian citizenship is the determining factor for the existence of suffrage, as we have already said. At the same time, voters can exercise this right in a variety of ways. Hungarian citizens entitled to vote, who are resident in Hungary, will personally cast their votes in the parliamentary elections in the electoral district of their place of residence. If, on the day of the vote, they are abroad, then they are guaranteed by law the possibility of voting at foreign representations. These voters may vote for a party list and choose from candidates in the constituency of their place of residence. You have two votes, individual and party list. Over the last eight years, more than 30 new foreign representations have opened, making it easier for these citizens to choose. Personal voting in Hungarian legislation is the rule. Compared to this, voting in a letter is an auxiliary rule. In the case of a foreign address, the concept of an individual electoral district cannot be interpreted, so citizens living abroad can cast their votes by letter, and since they cannot be interpreted as individual candidates of the place of residence, they can only vote for a list. Another derogation is that they can only participate in elections if they ask for their registration in the electoral register, i.e. register. So they need an extension, they need to register to exercise their electoral rights. Different rules are based solely on the existence or lack of a foreign address. So it is irrelevant that the Hungarian citizen's address is in London, Kézdivásárhely or in Australia, because all citizens who do not have a Hungarian address are subject to the same rules. So listen, the same rules apply to the Hungarian and Hungarians in Színszereda! And if a voter resides abroad in a way that makes it difficult for him to vote in person, then he has the opportunity to announce his place of residence abroad, such as London or to apply for his registration in the electoral register, on the basis of which he can vote by letter, for example anywhere in Western Europe. A person who has a permanent residence abroad is obliged to terminate his permanent residence in Hungary, as there can be no two permanent residences at the same time. In the absence of a notification, the Hungarian State cannot verify who are citizens who are living abroad, for whom personal voting in Hungary or in foreign representations may be difficult due to the lack of permanent residence. Hungarian legislation is therefore very clear about this. If a person lives abroad, he works there and terminates his residence in Hungary, he can vote without problems in a letter, whether in London or Munich or in Csíkszereda. The Hungarian legal system regulates this very clearly. This argument has been raised several times, which is why I thought it was important for me to lead it clearly, to understand the difference once and for all, because these issues were regularly washed up in the election campaign, and we were accused of being discriminated against by one or another electoral group. I'd respond to some of the other charges. Our colleague Varga-Damm here called the election system a fraud and a fraud. I would strongly reject that and ask you to choose your words. Many international organisations have found that the Hungarian electoral system has passed every test. I must also reject the constant accusation of fraud against our fellow nations across the border that they must abuse the right of choice, how difficult it is to control the system. It is precisely the voting rules or the many invalid votes that indicate how many guarantees the legislator has incorporated into this system, how impossible it is to abuse it. It is also possible to abuse everything; in relation to personal voting, it is often possible to think that a person will vote twice or several times, or that a lot of charges can be made with regard to the rules of transfer. [[14.10]] We assume that the vast majority of voters are law-abiding citizens and comply with the law. I reject the fact that you are accusing citizens entitled to a letter vote of fraud, not only of Hungarians across borders, but of anyone who lives outside the borders of Hungary and does not reside in Hungary. As I said, everyone has the right to vote on the letter, if he does not have a permanent residence in Hungary, we are not only talking about this in relation to Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. With regard to the envelopes, it raised the question that NTI, NVB and the Curia later decided that not only the unopened envelopes but also the votes sent back in the envelope not delivered by NTI were invalid. Indeed, this meant more than 6,000 envelopes, votes, and therefore, if those votes had come to Fidesz in line with the general trend, Fidesz would have one more representative, we would have said so. In our view, NTI or NVB's decision was indeed contrary to the law, since the grounds for invalidity did not include the envelope, so if someone did not return it in a white envelope, it would not have been invalid in our view. Indeed, the new legislation, the amendment, settles this issue once and for all. As far as legislation is concerned, the international convention, as you have referred to, strongly offers countries to address this issue in the preamble, regulates this issue. This is what Hungary did, and that is why this provision was included in the new electoral law. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-114	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work, and with the speech of a representative asking for a normal word, István Szávay, Member Jobbik, then two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, my fellow Member, Mr Sigismund, let us go through what you have said here, not necessarily in line with the proposal, but we were talking about serious things here. Let me start by saying that I am as far away from any personal agenda as possible, that we have never had anything to do with the secretary of state before, and I must nevertheless be saddened to say that Mrs State Secretary is still unwilling to take part in the debate and answer our questions. Set up a residence in London, this is one of the most amazing things we have been hearing from you for years, fellow Members of Parliament. It's a shame. I'm sorry. You encourage tens of thousands of our countrymen to cut off another bond against Hungary, which connects them to Hungary and only so that they have the same suffrage and the same vote as the Hungarians, which is why they give up their address in Hungary. [[To intervene:]] Yes, you did. That's what you said, Congressman. He taught us the whole time and led us through what we know exactly what the difference is between Hungarian residents and non-owners. Then he said it was true that they would set up residence in London, and then they would be able to vote in a letter. No, Congressman, I am sorry, but I simply think the whole attitude is amazing that, instead of resolving this discrimination and not resolving it, Mr President, it is quite clear to everyone, because 95% of Hungarians across the border vote for you, who have been chased away from this country, and a fraction of those who do not vote for you. It's that simple, Congressman. You, however, do not want to give these electoral masses the opportunity to vote easier and to open thirty foreign representations around the world, which has not solved many things. It continues that if somewhere in the north, in Scotland or in a remote region of the United States, you live in a sublet, in a flat and in a workplace and work with a striped-szereda and a young man from Budapest, the striped-szeredan who has a good chance of voting for you will receive the envelope in his mailbox and send it home; the Budapester who will have a much less chance of voting for you will have to travel to London than he will not. By the way, since the Hungarian Permanent Conference has already been brought here, which, by the way, has already been reduced to a giddy one in recent years, we will also go and chew the putty there with you. [[For signal:]] Really, Congressman Ungár brought him here, okay, anyway, you're the only one who reacted to it, you're right. So, since the Hungarian Permanent Conference has already been brought here: you and the representatives of the Hungarian Permanent Conference and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Hungarian Parliament have accepted our proposal in the final declaration of the Hungarian Permanent Conference that invites the Hungarian Parliament to eliminate this discrimination. The Hungarian Permanent Conference has a decision on this. If you would take that institution a little more seriously now if you didn't consider the institution once a year, if you called your friends across the border, because now only those who don't have a good relationship with you over the border can't come to MÁÉRT now because they have made their presence impossible for all kinds of reasons; they are called together and they have to glorify the government in a multi-page closing statement, because that's about what MÁÉRT is used for, but sometimes when you manage to create some kind of consensus on a sensible and forward-looking subject, it will be drilled afterwards. Once again, at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, you and the governing parties voted in favour of abolishing this discrimination by the Hungarian Parliament or taking action on this matter. Then, Congressman, you're talking about accusations here about electoral abuse towards the foreigners. We have proposed this. My fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm made a proposal, and you voted it off without adding anything to the fact that there are households in Hungarian settlements adjacent to Transcarpathia that have 130 and 150 people registered to. These were fact-finding reports, it's definitely a vote-tourism, this vote is organized by fidesz mayors and their famulus in the area. They announce dozens and hundreds of Transcarpathian Hungarians to these addresses, who, not only do they not normally stay there, but also transfer their pensions from Transcarpathia to Hungary for a percentage, so that we can speak clearly. [[For signal:]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what they do, Congressman, imagine. Then you encourage the Hungarians living in London, who want to return to Hungary, to give up their Hungarian address and move out to London. I'm sorry, it's really amazing, especially if we put these two things side by side. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I'm glad you're having so much fun at this, Congressman. My fellow Member, Mr Varga-Damm, made a proposal that wanted to prohibit at least the possibility of declaring certain people for permanent residence in an unjustified size. There are certain life-like boundaries here, so that at a property of 80 square meters, let's say, how many people we can believe that they live or live there at least once in a while. My fellow Member suggested that this should be maximized in 10, but if you had said that it should have been 10 or 12 or 15 or 20, we would have accepted that, too. You were not even willing to discuss this issue. No, Congressman, because this is a good situation for you. It is a good thing for you that there is a possibility of abuse, but there is a possibility of abuse of the vote of those who are outside the border. That's what it's about! So don't be offended if the opposition here is talking about the potential for abuse. Especially when the Secretary of State refuses to answer our questions on a number of occasions as to how they intend to close or even what these opportunities are. Letter votes, 6,000 votes, if it had been valid, we wouldn't have had to open the envelopes for your friends in the Southlands, Congressman. We read in the south-country press that it was thanks to enthusiastic VMSZ activists that so many damaged envelopes came back, because it wasn't enough for them that 95 percent voted for Fidesz, and they wanted to get a better result. What was the solution to that? What's the fidesz solution to this case? The fact that you wanted to touch this law before the elections is the only time you did not receive opposition support. The reason why they did not receive the opposition support was because we asked them to remove the discrimination in relation to letter voting. So they couldn't touch it, and they couldn't ease the letter vote of the outsiders. After the election, when you reacquired the two-thirds, one of your first things was to rewrite it. It was removed from the law to send the votes back in an envelope sent by the Election Office. You've opened up the possibility of another abuse. Because those activists paid by Fidesz's local people who collect mail votes, no one will be able to say and prove that if there is fraud, if those envelopes are not opened, they will not get the wrong votes out of them and they will not be repacked. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I don't know what you think is so damn funny about that, Congressman. I don't think that's it at all. You have amended this law. It was modified so that the principle was open to this. I do not want to charge anyone with this in particular, but you have opened this principle with this amendment so that these letters can be opened, repacked and, where appropriate, votes removed. We know exactly what happened, and you know it, as well as my fellow opposition Members, how the collection of letter votes took place beyond the borders of the current one, but already in the previous one, but especially during the current election. You are now asking the opposition to support a proposal that also gives rise to such abuses. They can't answer the questions normally, they come with something else, and Mrs Secretary of State doesn't come up with anything at all. I'd like to ask you once again to take each other a little more seriously. I have told myself, and another opposition fellow Member has said here, that we can agree with the principle itself, which is laid down in this proposal, but we have serious problems and reservations and serious questions to which we would like to be answered. If we do not get this, it will make it quite difficult for us to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.20]]
u2018-10-31-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP!
u2018-10-31-117	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, if you would be able to answer why you believe that Hungarian citizens living outside, who live, say, in Western Europe, may not have checked in. So why didn't they make this decision? Because maybe if we thought about it a little more empathically than you are cynically doing: partly because you want to come home, this is the priority that I think we should support in this room rather than be political, but that's just a suggestion; and partly because there are a thousand things, for example, if a part of someone's family is here, then there are questions about how they can get into school, what kind of support this person can get, how he's paying taxes or what's going on with his pension. So if you could turn a little more empathy towards these people instead of aufkleristly stating what ten thousand Hungarian citizens should do, who are working in Western Europe because of the economic policy of Fidesz, I think it would be very useful for this debate. All I would like to add to what he said, and to make it personal, not personal, is that I think it would be easy for the Fidesz to form here or for the KDNP, regardless of a national consensus on this issue, just because they put propaganda in the next proposal, precisely because Hungarians working in Western Europe are not being organised. Therefore, you will do everything you can to ensure that there is no national consensus on this issue, so that you can then hand out the card of the, the patriot and the traitor, and then, as the law says here, as a basic government activity, you can tell everyone who you think is a traitor and who is a patriot. So if it's personal, I'd like to ask you to take a more constructive approach to this issue of national strategic importance, then you might be better suited to the expectations you're setting against us. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-118	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2018-10-31-119	Mr President, Dear House, I must say to Congressman that you are mistaken when you quote my words. First of all, you are wrong when you say that I would have called Hungarian voters across the border a fraud. I didn't say anything about that. I called you the crooks. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] and the electoral system in which you vote with Hungarians across the border, abusing them, taking advantage of them and on their behalf. Hungarians across the border are not the perpetrators of this fraud, but the victims, just like Hungarians in Hungary, for whom others vote. Secondly, I would also like to say that I do not know what report you have read about the Hungarian election. The OSCE, which is the most respected observer organisation, has found that intimidation and anti-alien rhetoric, media bias, opaque campaign funding have narrowed down the scope for real political debate and restricted voters to make a decision with full knowledge. He also stated that the non-publicity of the register of Hungarians across the border reduces the transparency of the election. I didn't say anything about everything being okay. Finally, it is self-evident that, in the case of irregular and, as such, uncounted votes, you assume that these were the votes cast on Fidesz. You obviously know what's in these votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-31-120	You're welcome. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2018-10-31-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Péter Ungár referred to a national consensus on this issue, so he should contact his neighbor in the horseshoe and his party leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, as to why there is no national consensus in this. [[Péter Ungár: He is not here, let me not turn to him!]] I think that Mr Arató has no moral basis for commenting on this debate in such a way as to how and how the cross-border letter vote is implemented and what detailed rules apply to it when you last attacked the voting rights of the cross-border voters last week, and it is very funny that you are here as a defender of cross-border letter voters, that you are poor victims and you are trying to protect them. Congressman, you must protect voters and Hungarian citizens from across borders and all Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin in general. And yet another debate, which has emerged on the opposition side, has been debated here by the Members, that it is now a double vote, who votes, where does it vote, what list, what lists in Romania are voted on, or on Hungarian lists; is it not, Péter Ungár also said that the man will decide? But this bill is not about third-country voters, citizens. [[Péter Ungár: But it's not about Ferenc Gyurcsány, but they were talking about it!]] A Hungarian citizen living in Ukraine, a Hungarian citizen living in Serbia, cannot vote double because he lives in a non-EU country. We are talking here about the right to vote in a third country so that they can take part in the elections to the European Parliament. I am very sorry that Congressman Szávay has gone out, because he obviously has the biggest problem that despite his national political activity, LMP has preceded them in relation to letter voting, and after the Fidesz-KDNP party alliance, Jobbik has not become the second among those beyond the borders. It's obviously very painful for Congressman István Szávay. And he's talking about paid activists in connection with the V.M.S.A. [[István Szávay returns to the Chamber.]] When the audience was full of paid activists not on our national holiday, but on their national holiday. And, Congressman, it's true that you won a mandate because of the destroyed letter votes, but since then, four of them have been kicked out of the group, so it might have been better to maintain balance. Thank you very much. [[Péter Ungár: You can sit if you are worried about the number of people! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-122	Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz!
u2018-10-31-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was worth getting up today because we understood that Gergely Arató is worried about Hungarians across the border. So, hooray, this is a very good direction! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:...they're being used!]] As regards the 6000 letter votes, which were invalidated by the electoral authority: they were not the split votes, but the main problem with them was that they were not sent back in a response envelope sent by NTI. The envelope opened was clearly illegal, there was no debate. So our representatives at the count of votes challenged it, and that's what the 6000 votes were about. The split vote is clear, there is no question, so it is invalid, and we share that position. Whoever opened it, we don't know there are stories like that, it's invalid. What the question was about and the amendment of the legislation is that it can be sent back not only in the response envelope sent by the NVI, but in any white envelope. [[István Szávay: We are talking about the same thing, Congressman.]] That's the same with the personal vote. Plus, there's a way to make it worse. There's no way to make it worse. I did not call on anyone to change their address, I presented the current framework of the legislation, the legislative framework for the test of constitutionality, the legislative framework laid down by the legislator. [[Péter Ungár: Answer the question!]] I didn't ask anyone to do anything. This is where you can go to another election system, you can create individual electoral districts across borders, there are solutions to that; then we are not talking about two or three mandates, we are talking about other things. I say that there are many ways to go, and the Hungarian legislator has chosen this system: Hungarians across the border must register, vote by letter and vote for the party list. Anyone who has a permanent residence may leave, vote in person, but also to the individual representative of their own place of residence, thus maintaining this relationship with the country. But we have to vote in person. But to help this, as I have said, more than 30 new foreign representations have been opened, and many of them in the United Kingdom, Germany or overseas, precisely to meet this requirement and to help my fellow countrymen who are temporarily working abroad and who would like to vote. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-124	Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, speaks as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-125	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! I think that the decision that was taken three years ago has indeed not been rushed, and now it is finally here before Parliament, so it is quite interesting that it has suddenly become important to adopt it. I'll just mention that as a comment. Among those sitting in the hall, there are many who won elections in the individual district on 8 April, and those who won an election in the individual district have a little more information about how many people who worked abroad voted for them, how many people voted for them at the foreign representation, what proportion they were involved in, and they also know the numbers where they were transferred, so they had to select places in each constituency where the transferors could vote, these are only voters. We know these numbers because they're publicized. I think that this can also move you or the government, because in this respect, Hungarian citizens who vote at foreign representations, i.e. working abroad, but who live in Hungary, have had a slightly different result, you know that, as with those who have transferred, and of course, a very different result came out, who voted in a letter. And if we consider these, they know precisely that this should not be changed, although there were still clear conditions in the previous European Union elections. [[14.30]] We're talking about a list vote where there won't be an individual district, there's only a list vote. Here in the list vote, it will be very difficult to find out who voted in a letter, how he voted, with a transfer, and what is the result of the person who worked abroad. So it is true that we know that three more laws will come, and in that we do not know what will be written. We are talking about something in advance, but I am talking about the letter vote from my former mayor's period for twenty-some years, and for us, our twin cities were not in America and Australia, but only in the settlements across the border, where we regularly, say, we can also take the already mentioned Southlands, Vojvodina or Transylvania, I know how this envelope is collected. Here's the question of who's going to tape that envelope. It's not who opens that envelope, who tapes it, I can talk a lot about it. A lot of people would probably be in a lot of trouble if I started telling them about who tapes it and how. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] So I'll just remember how many diplomats and colleagues work at the consulate in Cluj Napoca, how much work they do in Târgu Mures. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Not there!]] It may have been eliminated, but it is in Miercurea Ciuc, and there are 80 and 60 apparatuss there. So why do we need such an apparatus in a country with such a semi-friendly relationship at the consulate? I don't want to speculate. I'm just asking why we need such a large number. Overall, I have to say that if I take my own example to be specific, then I won the election in an individual district on 8 April. We know the voting ratio between those who work abroad and those who vote at foreign representations, in which László Hajdu received much more votes than Fidesz. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] So, on the one hand, it was clearly seen in several places how they voted, but at most it was not enough for opposition to win there. If I take how many people voted, this will be sent out later by the central election office, I lost in a slightly worse situation in the case of three thousand of them who have been transferred. In the district, from the 70 districts, plus 24 Újpest, from this large number of polling circles, I think I won the election in 70 percent of every polling circuit, here, where 3,000 people were transferred, I got something incredibly different. So you see these at national level, we don't see them. I also think that this will guide you to adapt this choice to the European Union elections in some way. I feel that you have noticed this in the European Union elections, a little bit of confidence has wavered, although the polls do not indicate this, but it is certain, in these three laws that will come, I think that this is what they want to realise. I think that what will happen again is that we still have the doubt that the Hungarian elections are not pure. Thank you. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]]
u2018-10-31-126	Thank you very much. Two minutes, two of them came in. I'd rather say that on a limited scale than extend it to others. [[Defiance.]] Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2018-10-31-127	I'm not gonna take the two minutes, Mr. President, thank you, don't worry about it, I'll finish it quickly. However, regarding Ungvár, Beregszász, Cluj-Napoca or Csíkszereda, honourable fellow Member, to talk about friendly countries, Member, it has been 30 years for you to come with us to Transylvania and see what is happening there. It is because again the DK representatives are concerned about Hungarians across the border, when, as I say, last time they raised hatred and mood against them last week, and last week they told us to withdraw the voting rights from them, he was a fellow Member of Ágnes Vadai. So it was him, your fellow faction, and under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány from 5 December 2004, this track is beautiful, this arch, but we should stop the tension against Hungarians across the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-128	Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2018-10-31-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to respond to a brief statement made in a debate. My fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, said that a lot of consulates were open, where Hungarian citizens living abroad can vote excellently. We don't want to compare that to the fact that someone can vote from home in a letter. So let's not think of this as solving the problem because two new consulates were opened, let's say, in Britain, and then, in fact, it's not 300 kilometers anymore, it's only 250 kilometers to travel and spend a whole day doing it. So we say exactly that we should not be measured by double standards. From a technical point of view, let's give everyone the same opportunity. So in Hungarian: it is very right that new consulates open, they can do a lot of other things, there can be many other problems for a Hungarian living there, from this point of view it is perfectly all right. But when we talk about voting, let's not make it a sign of equality that, in fact, by opening up one or two such consulates, we have actually solved the problem and dealt with the two in a similar way. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-130	Thank you very much. They're just listening to each other and to the president, which I'm drawing from the fact that I can see the monitor, which shows that no one has applied for a speech this time. But it's my duty to ask if anyone else is applying for a speech. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. After no further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to react now. [[Dr. Judit Varga: In short, yes.]] It says it's not right now. [[Dr. Judit Varga: Yes!]] Oh, you mean "yes"? We still need to improve communication. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2018-10-31-131	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry if I didn't make myself clear. Since this is yet another technical part of the proposal, since its substantive debate is included in the second proposal, let me briefly respond to some technical questions. It is very important to stress that the whole proposal itself came from the European Parliament, the idea, and they would have liked it very strongly if it were mandatory in this Council Decision to grant voting rights to EU citizens who do not have an EU address in elections to the European Parliament. So we have also looked at the vote, unfortunately, both DK and MSZP Members voted in favour of this in the European Parliament, which is where they supported this extended voting right. It's important to tell. With regard to abuses, let me stress, as has already been said, that there is a framework in this Council Decision, which also records existing cooperation. So in many Member States, as already in Hungary, there are sanctions to eliminate any abuse or to avoid double voting, and there is proper cooperation between Member State authorities. Once again, I stress to the exclusion of concerns that each Member State designates a contact authority, which already exists, in this case it will be the National Election Office, and it will be Member States, which means that data exchange will only take place between Member States. I think that other substantive issues will be raised at the next item, but I think that Mr Zsigmond and Mr Nacsa have presented the situation in detail that the letter vote has been criticised for so long. [[István Szávay: Only I didn't ask them.]] I think it's the content and the answer that's important, Mr. Congressman. [[István Szávay: No.]] So thank you very much, Mr President, that's all I wanted to say. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws relating to individual elections until closure. The government referral is T/2941. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Judit Varga, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The aim of this proposal, as we are talking about content issues, is to give Hungarian citizens who do not reside in the EU the opportunity to exercise the right to vote actively in the elections of the Members of the European Parliament. The proposal includes the amendments and other technical amendments necessary for the entry into force of the Act on Election Procedure, the initiative of the referendum, the European citizens' initiative and the law on the referendum procedure. [[14.40]] Allow me to give you some details. On 16 July 2018, the Council of the European Union 2018/994 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Decision No 1 of the European Parliament amending the electoral document on the election of Members of the European Parliament on the basis of direct and universal suffrage. The Decision encourages Member States to offer citizens who do not reside in the Union the opportunity to participate in the elections of Members of the European Parliament. This is already the case in several places in the Member States, as I mentioned earlier: Austria, Finland, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom are already able to do so. The Hungarian legislation currently in force has not yet ensured this, so according to the current regulations, in the election of the members of the European Parliament in Hungary only the electoral and optional person who is resident in Hungary. In line with the above, the bill will ensure the right to vote for Hungarian citizens living in a third country, as well as for Hungarian citizens living in Hungary who are not resident, while the right of departure remains only for Hungarian and EU citizens living in Hungary. This is, by the way, the 13th of 2003 on the election of Members of the European Parliament. It amends the provisions of law and fundamental law. Dear House, In addition to what has already been said, this bill creates consistency between the law on electoral proceedings, the law on referendums and the law on administrative litigation. As regards the Act on Election Procedure, terminology had to be adapted to the regulation of the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure. In a number of provisions, such as the Act on Election Procedure 47. In its section, it is necessary not to use the term "journal review" because of the new terminology established in the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure. The proposal also harmonises the terminology of the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure and the Law on the referendum, and maintains rules other than the Law on Administrative Rules of Procedure in the law on referendums. The most important of these are the rules on the competence of the Curia, the submission and transmission of the application, the time limit, the power to decide and the publication of its decision. The rules of appeal remain fundamentally unchanged, only adapted to the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure in the terminology. Dear House, I would like to ask that these technical amendments be treated as such and let me also draw attention to clarification provisions. For example, the law on the referendum in force does not contain any regulation concerning the participation of the President of the Republic or the Government in the election campaign and the possibility of delegation by the Commission if the referendum was initiated by the President of the Republic or by the Government. The proposal removes this legal gap and states that the President of the Republic and the Government, following the referendum that he initiated, have the same powers in this respect as the organisers in the referendum on the basis of the electoral initiative. In all these respects, I would like to ask you to support the bill and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-134	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. There will now be speeches by the lead speaker; first, Member Károly Becsó, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The aim of the proposal before us is to enable non-EU Hungarian citizens, i.e. third-country nationals, to participate in the exercise of their right to vote and express their will in the election of members of the European Parliament. I would like to point out to you that the basic concept of this proposal was not drawn up by the Hungarian Government, as has been said several times, but by the European Union itself, and a European Council resolution in the summer of 2018 wanted to amend the so-called electoral document on the election of members of the European Parliament on the basis of direct and universal suffrage. The European Union itself is therefore encouraging Member States to create an opinion for their non-EU citizens when deciding who should represent their country in Brussels. I believe that the Hungarian Government has done the right thing to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the decision, because in May next year, every Hungarian person's word will matter when they decide which party's candidates are best suited to represent and defend the interests of the nation in the European Parliament and, of course, decide which direction the fate of the European Union's operation should continue. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Hungarian legislation in force, the election of the members of the European Parliament in Hungary is limited to the electoral and election of the members of the European Parliament, who are resident in Hungary. The strict condition of becoming a candidate is that the person wishing to become a Hungarian or an EU citizen living in Hungary, so the legal requirement clearly excludes Hungarian nationals from exercising their right to vote. I consider this particularly important when the Transcarpathian Hungarians are seriously attacked in their homeland. Following the signing of the Association Treaty, anti-Hungarian measures and atrocities were launched in Ukraine. If we adopt the amendment before us, it will be possible for our fellow nations to listen to their voices and to express which political community is the one that best seeks to protect them. I am not exaggerating if I say that the current European Parliament elections are at stake more than ever before, with the consequences of more Europeans than ever before. It is now decided which forces will be strengthened or weakened in Brussels: it will continue to be led by the tight elite supporting immigration, politicalising against the will of the people, or political forces protecting European Christian culture and the citizens of the nation states will emerge victorious from the challenge. I believe that there must also be an opportunity for Hungarian citizens who live in the territory of a non-EU country to express their views on the future of Europe, since most of them's lives will also be influenced or influenced by decisions taken within the framework of the European Union. Dear House, Let us therefore, first and foremost, extend the EU's opportunity to our fellow nations. Secondly, we need to ensure the coherence of the legal system by adapting the electoral and referendum law to the new terminology of administrative litigation. Finally, we also need to follow some conceptual clarification and clarification through our related laws, such as the definition of campaign activity or electoral assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-31-136	Thank you very much. Congressman István Szávay, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2018-10-31-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So, yes, Madam Secretary, that's what I'm talking about. I'm sorry, you didn't answer my questions. I have asked you very clear, concrete questions about abuses, why this is in it, how it can be voted in two ways at all. I asked you what security guarantees there are, how these data will be exchanged at all. I also asked you what would happen after the exchange of data took place six weeks before the election. I asked you these questions, and I asked you to be kind enough to take part in the debate, just like you refused to do, so that if you can give us an answer that is not acceptable to us, then, let's say, we can react. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Answered! Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] But, fellow Members, I am sorry, this is none of your business, and by the way, I did not ask you, but the representative of the government. Now, on the previous agenda, we have slightly slipped into the current one, so perhaps this will be a little shorter, because quite a lot has already been said in the previous one, which I wanted to say here, by the way, but here I have been stimulated by my fellow Members with fidesz on a continuous basis. Let me make one more comment: yes, Congressman Zsigmond, in the previous debate we spoke about the same envelopes, which were repacked, on which there is suspicion that they have been repacked, and that there have been a suspicious number of these envelopes from the same place, and from the South. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Invalid!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Invalid!]] They weren't in that envelope. In this regard, the press was very serious about the suspicion that this was organised and repacked. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Invalid!) And, Mr President, we will then look at the minutes, and you have called for them: you said that anyone who wants to be able to vote in a letter should register in London, that is what you said in the previous debate. It fits well in that line, by the way, what Congressman Attila Tilki said. I am sorry that you are not here, but I will look forward to the minutes of the Committee on National Inclusion last week, where Congressman Tilki spoke with a noble simplicity about the fact that the Hungarians who have moved abroad are questionable, because they have left Hungary. That is, however, your actual attitude towards this issue. However, let us get back to what this agenda is about, although I am now taking part in this debate with much less enthusiasm on the basis of the previous lessons. [[14.50]] As we stressed in the debate on the previous agenda that we agree with the principle of law ourselves, we do not object to that, obviously it is essentially a harmonisation of laws that, as you can vote without a title in parliamentary elections, you can vote in the European Parliament, and we can agree with that. As Jobbik's position has consistently been that all Hungarians are entitled to citizenship, we have thought of this much sooner than Fidesz-KDNP would have done, but we are glad that these steps have taken in recent years. Since our formation, we believe that all Hungarians are entitled to citizenship, and that an integral part of that is the right to vote. This is basically a step forward for them. We were just talking about the problems with the mail packages, and I don't want to go through that again. What I would like to do, on the other hand, is still a problem, and that is a question of registration. This has never been mentioned before. At the time, you created the relevant laws without any opposition support, mutatis mutandis and, of course, that those who do not have a address and can vote by letter can register for a ten-year period. This means that Hungary will mail the package of letters to them for ten years. Even in the previous election, it was suspected that this would make it practically possible to cast votes on behalf of the dead. For if the relatives and this is not always expected to be in mourning, but they do not always know this at all, if the relatives do not notify the Hungarian authorities that there has been a death, that person is registered in Hungary as an elected citizen for up to nine and a half years. His family receives the package of voting letters, which, by the way, should not be sent as a registered letter, so that he can be taken over by someone other than the recipient, and with these envelopes, these votes can be abused. Not to mention, and this was found when I asked Ilona Pálffy about this at an event sometime around February, and he could not answer with satisfaction and merit that it could not be proved beyond all doubt that the extension of the registration was actually requested by that citizen, because it does not have technical guarantees. That is, in extreme cases, it is also possible that if a person died shortly after registration, then he was registered for 8 to 9 to 10 years, and on his behalf, whether family members or unknowns, anyone else can extend this registration, the voting package will arrive at his address. But let this happen, let us say, in Transylvania or in the South, but what then, my fellow Members, will happen abroad? Then, when it comes to America and Australia, I don't know where Hungary is going to send mail packages to the person in the 9th year after registration, when he may have been gone for a long time, or may he have died for a long time? So we still can't agree with this period. Obviously, this will continue to serve your political goals, as they can collect the vast majority of the votes across the border. But it would be much more difficult for everyone to register again and again for each election. Especially when we know exactly how the citizens were registered. Most people didn't even know they were registered in the elections. What the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania has done with the Minority SafePack signatures in Transylvania is bordering on electoral fraud, when the signatures supporting the European Convention on the Protection of Minorities were signed in small letters, so that whoever signs this will also register for the elections in Hungary. So that's how you recruited your voters from across the border to give just one example, but I could do at least five more anyway. Obviously, because this registration is obviously difficult and leaves the possibility of fraud and abuse in it. At the same time, the most correct and safest would still be to fill out a registration for each election who wishes to take part in the election. Who really wants to be a part of it, not someone who wants to be voted out of the village from Szeklerland or from anywhere else. So, who himself believes that he would like to participate in this election, who is a citizen so conscious that he is interested in events in Hungary, he will probably be informed by the press and the media about when the election will take place and how to participate in the elections or register for elections. Obviously, this is not the aim; the aim is to collect the data of as many citizens as possible, to deliver mail votes to as many citizens as possible, while forming legislation and leaving a wide range of forms of abuse of letter votes. Let us talk about repacking and suspicion of resolution, which I will maintain again, and I will say once again that this suspicion has arisen, and you have also taken steps to make this even simpler, and even less likely to be caught if someone were to do so. Whether it is the use of the names of the dead or the votes of the dead, or whether it is simply these envelopes, given that they do not need to be delivered in person, they can be collected in any way by anyone, and similar abuses can be made, which, by the way, could have been committed by knocking tags at the time, which, in turn, you have acted against, and this has been quite rightly removed. We also remember what happened to the knocker tags - a series of broken mailboxes. Unfortunately, it is also possible to abuse these votes. It is not very reassuring that we now extend this system to the whole world, as this must be linked to ten-year registration, and even after many years we will send voting packages to the world for those who have already moved or have already passed away, only Hungary does not know about it. My question raised another concern, which came to mind in the previous debate, however, what about European Union citizens who are dual citizens and who still do not have a place of residence in one EU country. What's happening to them? You have listed the countries in which this law can be applied. For example, take the Netherlands, you mentioned the Netherlands. Now, what if someone is a Dutch-Hungarian dual citizen and is now living in Buenos Aires for three years, and there is a permanent address and would like to take part in the European Union elections? What is the guarantee, whether it can be filtered out, is there a guarantee that it can be filtered out, say, between the Netherlands and Hungary, so that it does not have a double vote? The question may be simple, and it only seems complicated to me, but then they will answer it. This has suddenly come to my mind, by the way, in addition to a number of other assumptions, which Mrs Secretary of State was kind enough not to answer before. And I cannot go further in this debate either, because here two proposals are in line with each other, so that, while the Council decision, which we have just discussed and to which the bill refers, gives us a number of opportunities and a number of opportunities for individual Member States, such as Hungary, to make certain commitments or to introduce certain new measures. We continue to find it problematic that you consider only one of these important, and this is the institution of the vote on letters, and that other issues, such as whether electronic or online voting, do not want to deal with the creation of the same obvious possibility for the two. Now, there is another point in the proposal that is much more problematic, which we say, however, that we cannot agree with in principle, and although I have tried to listen, I do not remember that Mrs Secretary of State specifically mentioned this, and this is the question of judicial review, my fellow Members. The judicial review is replaced by an administrative trial everywhere if there is a dispute about election results or there is a suspicion of fraud and, therefore, election extraordinary remedies are brought to the administrative courts everywhere. To the administrative courts of which you wish to place the loyal servant and soldier of NER, András Patyi. Thus, the administrative courts will essentially function as special electoral courts, whose independence we regard as highly questionable. [[15.00]] In recent years, András Patyi has demonstrated his absolute loyalty to the regime you have called national cooperation in a number of ways. We have seen this in the spring campaign on several occasions; many of us were reminded of the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally said that you were a small fine champion, or something like that, this funny sentence, which has become a boarding house. We remember the look on Professor Patyi's face at the time, the smudged and sluggish face he showed to the Prime Minister at that time, who made it a subject of criticism, that he had the chance to punish him on one occasion, if I remember correctly, because the Prime Minister thought that he had to go campaigning among children of 2-3 years old and carry out campaigning in kindergartens in a way that humiliates Comrade Rákosi. Now, you want to set up an appeal for elections for this Patyi András and these administrative courts. I assume that the rest of these courts or other judges will be composed of figures of at least the size and loyalty of András Patyi. There's no doubt about that. My fellow Member, Péter Ungár, raised what I was thinking, quite frankly, about, in particular, the production by the Secretary of State, whether you really wanted the opposition to support these proposals. Because if they wanted to, we'd get answers to our questions. If they wanted to, we would see guarantees that there is no possibility of abuse. If you wanted us to support this, for example, in this proposal, which is basically about giving those who do not have a Hungarian address the possibility of voting in the letter, you would not include a new nerd stone and another milestone in the construction of their own party regime, namely the imposition of extraordinary remedies to the administrative courts. I do not think or find it difficult to imagine that it would be acceptable for any representative of the opposition that you want to bring him to party courts, controlled by party people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And now it is possible to protest that, oh, I should be ashamed, they want to put electoral remedies in the courts of outrageous people with party loyalty, thus influencing the outcome of the elections. We find this unacceptable. Give me half a minute, Mr. President, or not so much. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask you to consider dividing this proposal into two. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-31-138	Not so much. [[Defiance. István Szávay: But it is possible to ask for a minute. Not anymore? If not, I'm sorry.]] Please, there's a way to ask for everything, and there's a house rule compared to that. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] And that's why I said no. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Previously, although we started, in the two debates, the overlaps between the two items on the agenda brought up similar issues on the previous agenda. I replied to Congressman Szávay when he wasn't in the room, but I repeat that I obviously believe that it hurts that even LMP has preceded you with regard to the votes across the border, even though you are obviously engaged in national political activity, and we all acknowledge that, but nevertheless, they were not as brilliantly represented by Hungarians across the border as they could have been expected. For example, the events of Jobbik's youth department and its summer camp had to be brought from Transylvania to Hungary after four years, they are no longer organized there... [[Gergely Farkas: Don't lie! Don't lie to me, Lawrence.]]
u2018-10-31-140	With all due respect, let's try to argue about the bill.
u2018-10-31-141	I was just about to get to it.
u2018-10-31-142	We have a lot of memories of everything, but that's not what this law is about. Please.
u2018-10-31-143	I was just about to come to the conclusion that, in the proposal before us, on the previous agenda, the Council of the European Union 2018/994. We are also able to negotiate it because of its decision, a sentence in which it says, "Member States may take the necessary measures, in accordance with their national electoral procedures, to allow their nationals residing in a third country to vote in elections to the European Parliament. We therefore wish to amend three laws in this proposal on the election of Members of the European Parliament, the 2003 CXIII Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament, with regard to the laws that we are discussing now, which are to be amended by the proposal. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Act on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. Law. The amendment of the law on the election of members of the European Parliament is necessary in order to allow Hungarian citizens who are not resident in the EU to exercise their right to vote in the European Parliament elections. Its aim is to ensure active suffrage to Hungarian citizens living in a third country and to Hungarian citizens living in Hungary who are not resident. Here, the conditions for the right to stand as a candidate would not be changed by this proposal. The law on electoral proceedings would also be amended by the proposal before us. We've heard about this before. The Act on Administrative Rules entered into force on 1 January 2018, and therefore the terminology of the Act on Election Procedure is adapted to these provisions and the rules of entry into the register also change. If the voter declares his address, he will be registered in the register, and he will only be able to take part in the elections to the European Parliament if he gives his address abroad. The proposal will also provide the possibility of a recommendation for Hungarian voters living in a third country in the future. There is a change in electoral assembly rules, the institution of voting in the EP elections and an important, I think, very important element of the proposal that this would allow, from the upcoming municipal elections, that if a voter has requested a mover to a place to which he should have previously applied without a request for a transfer, then his request for a mover must also be considered as a request for transfer. This makes it easier to apply for a mobile ballot box, not to conduct a double administration. I think this is a very important question. I only wanted to respond with one sentence to the speakers before me: Congressman, we were not the ones who said that we could leave here. It wasn't Sigismund Brown who said before that you could leave here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] It wasn't Sigismund Brown who said you could open a pastry shop in Vienna. The socialist and Gyurcsány MEPs on your left said so. They are the ones who said that in Hungary there is no need for these young people, there is no need for the growing generation. [[Gergely Harvesto: They didn't go under us, they went under you!]] We are creating exactly the same environment and we are trying to implement measures that, for example, help young people to become entrepreneurs, such as home creation. We have introduced a number of measures in the last 8 years that serve precisely that if someone leaves here and gets experience, acquires competitive language skills, we would like to build a country that is worth coming home to, even after they have acquired this experience or language skills. Thank you very much. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal before us. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-144	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2018-10-31-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Let me start with what Lawrence Nacha was talking about. The youthful heat is very good, but it is worth being precise, Congressman. Socialist MEPs didn't say anything about getting out of here. In addition, the person who said it also said it in a different context, but Mr Arató will tell you this. [[To intervene:]] But you said it in plural; I don't know, I think you understand the difference between a number and a plural, that the "socialist representatives" meant that everyone was talking about it in general. Compared to this, more people left this country during your government than in 56 when they were forced to do so by the former power. In English, be careful of what country you are building! You're currently building a country where people leave. When we ask them if they want to come home after this fantastic knowledge of languages and professional experience to come home to build this even more wonderful country they build themselves, they say they won't come home because they found their calculation abroad. So when you speak on this subject, do it with greater humility. You can be pompous in a lot of things, but in this you should be a little more humble because that is not the story you are talking about, my honourable fellow Member. That's one of them. The second is surprising to me, the Member is talking about what this bill is all about, while in all the debates the argument was about how many votes you have obtained across the border. I admit honestly, I thought this debate was about the fact that we would like to establish a Hungarian law on the basis of some European Union principle on the basis of principle. It's not about how we can get three more votes. This could be a consequence, but we'll wait for the election. I have too much doubt that the Socialist Party will not get the most votes across borders. But please, let's at least keep it in the debate so that we don't always teach each other how many votes you've won. To be honest, the opposition parties have a more honest opinion than yours, because we're not gonna get a big number of votes from there, guaranteed. So in Hungarian, those who can take advantage of it, so to speak, are themselves. [[15.10]] Nevertheless, the principle-based attitude of opposition parties is to say that we have a lot of definite ideas and we agree with different ideas. Therefore, I think that if someone is honest about this, then it is quite certain that the position of MSZP and Jobbik is honest, because we were not very good at the parliamentary elections beyond the borders, yet we say that we agree on certain issues and indeed a national consensus can be reached on this issue. The other, I would say to the Secretary of State, that the Ministry of Justice is the nationalist here, and I am very sorry that the Ministry of Justice is not here, because you were the authors of the previous item, and it would be okay if the other representative of the government were sitting here, as we are Members. So it doesn't necessarily have to be the secretary of state to sit here for several hours, since there are so many secretary of state, deputy secretary of state, and I don't know what's in this government. Since much has been said on the previous item, I would also like to focus on some of the things that I think might be worth highlighting. One of them is, and perhaps my fellow Member Zsigmond can help us in doing so, because he has been appointed Minister's Commissioner, and I congratulate him on that, but there is an important area and a country that has given us cause for problems so far, which is the question of Ukraine and the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. How does the Secretary of State see how this extension will affect the Hungarians of Transcarpathia specifically and specifically? How will they be able to take advantage of this opportunity without any retaliation, especially if we share with everyone the information on how and in what form who voted in the European Union? If we don't share it, then the story that I'm going to discuss is how double voting and other election frauds can be eliminated. Another point of this law, if I have read it correctly, is that it is no longer considered an election campaign by the municipalities. Local governments carry out a variety of tasks, such as publishing a municipal paper. If it is not a campaign activity in the municipal paper that the Fidesz candidates are pushed into the mouth and cannot be entered there at present, for example, by opposition representatives, then what the various authorities have done so far has been relatively consistent, this type of activity has been banned from various such organisations, it will now become completely legal, and it will further increase the competitive advantage shown to you in the field of media in Hungary. Moreover, what my better fellow Member has been talking about, from now on the Prime Minister's roadshow in kindergartens will be completely legal, as they will say that they are doing municipal work, the Prime Minister, as a public figure, can go there and tell the kindergartens what a beautiful state and country they will build, from which they will not have to leave when they grow up. The third one, which I would like to draw attention to, and perhaps it has not yet been said, is that election meetings will also be subject to the assembly law. I think this also makes it difficult to organise political meetings, as the assembly law is strict. On the other hand, I do not understand this, and in this I would like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, because a political election meeting or assembly has a different purpose than an event under the law of assembly. After all, an election meeting is about how it affects the results of the election, creating a very clear and clear link to a concrete result or expected result; and an event subject to the assembly law is broader than this, expressing a common expression, so not only legally, but theoretically, I do not understand, not only from a technical point of view, why such a change is being made. The fourth thing I wanted to ask the secretary of state is that I still don't understand it, but maybe it's because either I wasn't paying attention or I just don't understand it, but just because we're appointing an authority doesn't mean it's gonna solve how a double vote can't be cast. So if a person sends a vote in a letter and then votes against the Romanian list in Romania, then the fact that he voted in two places reveals only one case: if in some way these two databases are compared somewhere. However, there are relatively many databases to be compared here, so that it is clear how anyone can vote from where to, so in this sense, I admit frankly, I did not understand, and I say that this may be my fault, the Secretary of State's answer, that even though we have contact persons, it will technically work so that these abuses can actually be filtered out, or rather, I would say that it can be prevented. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-31-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-147	Thank you very much. Dear House, If you'll allow me, I wouldn't be dealing with the smaller, less important elements of the bill, although I have to say, and I have to say that the regulation that now opens up a completely free path to municipal and state campaigning, how should I put this very delicately? It's the peak of insolence. It is said that it is simply normal that local governments or state organisations are campaigning here. The government doesn't dare put its own name in the bill because it would be too clear. I have mentioned the OSCE report here, and I have just read that one of the most controversial elements in this was that almost unlimited amounts, huge amounts of money, taxpayers' money, were spilled on the voters by state ads supporting the state position and supporting Fidesz's position, but we all know that, who live in this country, we have seen how this is done. I'm just telling you that the series that you started with the previous amendment to the electoral law is going on, that everything that stopped you from campaigning out of public money, that you're running down the media without limit, and that you're running down equal opportunities in the election campaign, that you're making it legal. I will not go to the administrative courts, we will be able to talk about this in the near future. It's quite obvious, and here too, the point is that we need administrative justice so that the domestic courts, party courts, set up by you, can judge election cases as well. Not surprisingly, what I would like to say most is the right to vote for citizens across the border who do not have a residence in Hungary. I would like to support our opinion on this with a quote. Why do we not support this proposal? We do not support it because, in principle, we do not think it right for those who do not live in Hungary, who are not citizens of the country, and who cannot express their views on their choice in any way between the two elections, and many of them no longer have any ties to the country. We do not support the extension of suffrage either because it is much more difficult to control the purity of elections. Before my fellow Members begin to betray themselves, this quote comes from János Áder, who expressed the lead speaker's opinion on 28 September 1993. Ladies and gentlemen, That is exactly our position. Our position has not changed: the person who lives or lives here in Hungary should vote in Hungary, who bears the consequences of his decisions, whether it be the elections in Hungary or the elections in the European Parliament. The position of Fidesz has been constantly changing over the past decades. They held there, as in 2000, that dual citizenship did not comply with international law; they held, as in 2004, that citizenship was fine, but that the right to vote does not involve citizenship; they have now come to the point that the right to vote is absolutely necessary for Hungarians across the border. Ladies and gentlemen, And we think that's not true. Those who are not only citizens of the European Union but also those to whom EU decisions apply must take decisions on issues relating to the European Union, because the argument that EU decisions apply to citizens outside the European Union is true in a metaphorical form, but that is why all citizens of the world could vote in the European Union elections on this basis. After all, the decisions of the European Union have an impact on the world, but they do not propose that they be able to vote in the European Union elections in Brazil from now on, although this time may still come, as I look at the Brazilian election results. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite clear that in a modern society, suffrage is linked to who the decisions apply to. The person who follows the decision is the one who takes the fall. That is why we say that the person who lives in Hungary or lives in Hungary, who is not only connected to this country, but also bears the consequences of the decisions. This does not mean that we want to exclude Hungarians living across the border, whether they are citizens or not, from the Hungarian nation. They are part of the Hungarian nation, part of this cultural community. But the right to vote is not part of belonging to the nation, it is part of belonging to the Hungarian state. The Hungarian state belongs to those who have citizenship and who live here or live here. That's what we still think. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with the other issue, although it was wise to draw attention to this at the time, because we have already talked about this for a long time, that, while we do not agree that anyone who has never lived in Hungary can vote, while the solution that you choose does not meet the requirements of a fair choice, does not meet the conditions that we expect in relation to an election to be transparent and verifiable, and, as we have just spoken, does not otherwise comply with the relevant EU legislation in relation to the elections to the European Parliament. What you are about to do is hack the European Parliament elections, like the Hungarian elections. They don't deny that, by the way, Fidesz general speakers openly say that this is necessary because it is an important choice, and you need the support that you hope for from voters on behalf of Hungarians across the border. Finally, my fellow Members, they accuse the Democratic Coalition of making us hate Hungarians across the border. I'd like to reject that, it's a lie and a slander. Those who drag Hungarians across the border into Hungarian internal politics, who make them a means of cheating their ugly party goals and elections, create hatred against Hungarians across the border. Please don't do this. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-148	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In advance: Mr Lőrinc Nacsa may not have paid enough attention to my previous speech when I said that we support the principle that as many Hungarians as possible take part in the EP elections. We also support the voting rights of cross-border citizens, but not in such a system as Fidesz now operates it. We believe that Hungarians across the border could decide on a separate individual location. This amendment was tabled then, so this is our proposal. There have also been a lot of positive examples of the vote on the Internet, which my fellow Member Savay mentioned, so I would not analyse this. We were not surprised at the first round about the concrete bill. Once again, an election law, where there was no prior consultation. I think that every election law should be preceded by a conciliation between parliamentary parties, since all parliamentary parties participate in the elections, but this is always cancelled. It would be a good idea for the government to do so in the future. Fidesz-KDNP is very selective in relation to the Council decision, as the Council decision stresses that the greater the participation, the easier the vote in the letter, the easier the vote on the Internet, and, yes, the right to vote for those who live in a non-EU country. It highlights a detail that clearly favors him, as was the case with the previous amendment of the electoral law: the elements that Fidesz has changed were the ones that favored him. We have therefore tabled two amendments to this bill. The extension of voting rights is eligible, but this proposal still does not ensure voting in the letter for our fellow countrymen working abroad. They should also be able to vote in a letter. We have tabled an amendment to this, which would eliminate discrimination that voters working abroad with a Hungarian address cannot vote, so they will be able to cast their votes in the future. I ask that you support this amendment, that there should be no more double standards, that we do not distinguish between Hungarian and Hungarian citizens. Our other amendment is the contested amendment already mentioned by Attila Mesterházy, which says that it does not constitute an election campaign for the activities of electoral bodies, personal communication between citizens as individuals, regardless of their content and form, and the activities of the Constitutional Court, court and local government and other public bodies in their statutory tasks. This would, in our view, give the municipality an opportunity to campaign for a candidate that is obviously supported by the municipality, to conduct campaign activities, to give the reigning mayor a significant dominant position, thereby putting opposition candidates at a disadvantage, whether it is a pro-government or a opposition government. There is a real risk that the local government will be free to campaign for a particular candidate in the municipal papers. We also tabled an amendment to this. I would ask the pro-government representatives to support these two amendments, and then we too will be able to support this bill. In my previous speech, I asked the Secretary of State how the government will ensure that they are able to vote freely if this bill is adopted. I expect an answer on this. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-150	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-151	Thank you, Mr. President. I would reply very briefly to Mr Arató, who says that he does not cause hatred, but unfortunately he does. It's a matter of fact. If you analyze your speech and listen to it, that's exactly what happened. Congressman Savay specifically named me, which is why I applied most. Unfortunately, he's not here to answer. He's practically insinuating, constantly accusing. If you have any specific knowledge of a crime, report it. He keeps telling me that that's what happened. If you have any specific knowledge of something, file a complaint and investigate the case. I don't know if we should speak after this because he said that he would put words in my mouth or put words in our mouths. It might be easier if he wrote the report, because then he wouldn't have to think particularly, because then he would write it in the first place and decide who said what, and he could practically review who said what afterwards. I would say to Congressman Mesterházy that the Prime Minister's Office is the author of the legislation. You can probably go to the Ministry of Justice, but here the secretary of state represents the Prime Minister's Office in particular. All in all, that would be my answer. Thank you.
u2018-10-31-152	Thank you very much. For the historians of the future, it is preferable that the minutes of the Parliament's meeting are written by the people of Parliament. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause it's easier to look it up. It was only for Congressman Mesterházy to press the two-minute button, so I will consider my future comments myself. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-31-153	With due respect, Mr President is making such fantastic comments that he encourages me to continue to comment on these questions. [[Defiance.]] I hope I'm not making a bigger mistake than not quoting who did. Regardless, the Justice Department could still be here. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-154	I'm listening for a number of reasons. The main reason for this is that no more Members have come forward. At the same time, I must ask if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I will ask the State Secretary if she wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Judit Varga says yes.]] The communication between us has developed quite seriously, so I understand without a word that it has. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your support. I regret that some opposition parties would rather limit the rights of our fellow countrymen living outside our borders than expand them. I have already drawn attention to this contradiction once before, but their fellow Members in the European Parliament supported this very strong recommendation. So here's where I sense some contradiction in your ranks. Unfortunately, Congressman Savay is no longer in the room, but since he has spoken to me so many times, I feel that I need to clarify the situation. He is banging open gates because the danger he is talking about, the avoidance of double voting or the double vote has not been new during the day, nor has he been included in European and national legislation by this Council decision. [[15.30]] What this Council Decision is now doing is only strengthening existing cooperation in the Member States to detect these abuses and encouraging Member States to make more efforts not to do so. Otherwise, the Hungarian authorities are not aware of such abuses. It is important and an answer to a further question that the exchange of data between Member States' authorities serves precisely the purpose of filtering them out, since the registers are compatible and where those who will vote and where they have cast their votes can be seen. It's also important that we even have a Btk.-fact job sanctioning it, double voting is a felony. So the guarantees are in place. Of course, it is to be assumed that the citizen will not exercise a law-abiding attitude, and I must reject it, since we encourage everyone to follow the law. I would like to add that the entire European Union Council decision is trying to remedy the democratic deficit which is the problem mentioned by the Member earlier, that not enough people are present in the elections to the European Parliament. So this is the extension of the right to vote, and this is in line with the national political ambition that the Hungarian government has long represented in order to give our fellow countrymen living outside Hungary the right to vote. We supported this during the negotiations from the very beginning. Once again, I have already answered the question of the exchange of data between Member States; between EU Member States, Ukraine is not an EU Member State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-156	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs in New York dated 30 March 1961, pending its conclusion. Government referral T/2929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to transfer the decision of the UN Committee on Drugs to the Hungarian legal order in accordance with the laws on international contracts. At its 61st meeting in March 2018, the United Nations Committee on Drugs decided, in line with the recommendation of the World Health Organisation, to include carfentanyl and five other substances from the fentanyl group in the lists 1 and 4 of the Single Drug Convention. This Single Drug Convention lists the various substances that alter consciousness in four lists, and the compounds involved are accompanied by various restrictive measures. After all, these substances can provide opportunities for a number of abuses. The classifications of the list shall be taken over by each signatory State, but no substance shall be declared as a drug under national competence. All substances now declared drug use under the current Hungarian legislation are a new psychoactive substance, a substance, and their structural descriptions are regulated by a ministerial decree. By adding the six compounds to the lists of the Single Drug Convention, they were included in the most rigorously controlled category internationally. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that Parliament recognises its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions. That is why I ask this House to support T/2929. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-158	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First up will be Pál Sigismund Brown, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, the regulation of drugs and psychotropic substances is based on three international UN conventions which provide for the regulation of certain activities that can be carried out with chemicals used in the manufacture and manufacture of such substances. The fight against drugs has become difficult over the past few years. New substances appear almost daily, the composition of which is unknown, we do not know how they affect the consumer's body, we do not know exactly where they come from. Once a drug is added to the ban list, another one will have to be examined again, its chemical composition, and the ban list will have to be expanded. But in many cases, they're throwing another drug at the black market. The Single Drug Convention was signed in New York in 1961 and, as has been said, lists four different substances with mind-altering effects. The lists provide for different restrictive measures for the substances contained in them. The United Nations Committee on Drugs met in 2018 and decided to extend lists 1 and 4. Five new substances were included in List No 1 and four were included in List Nos 1 and 4. This makes it necessary to amend the legislation for the publication of the International Convention, which is in line with the provisions of Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has just been said, please support the amendment. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-160	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, The proposal before us, I think, can be dry for many, but more importantly, because it is a year after year, even six months after year, that these drugs and psychoactive substances are being extended and extended. I can agree with my fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, who said that more and more materials appear on a daily basis. But this is not primarily about psychoactive substances, but about fentanyl as a drug. The next item is, on the other hand, about substances that are even more dangerous. It is important to know that fentanyl is 100 times stronger than morphine and is also used in medicine for pain relief, surgical pain relief, and postoperative and cancer treatment. There are many subspecies of this in medicine, fentanyl, sufentanil, alfentanyl, and their subspecies are used by drug users. We add that, thanks to God, Hungary has not yet been affected by this type of drug abuse, it is not typical here, it is more typical in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Australia. However, what we have to mention here is that this 61st meeting was on 14 March, and now it is October 31st. However, more than half a year has passed, and in this six-month period, I think that, even if it is not a hundred, in groups of ten, new derivatives of fentanyl will appear, which will be brought back to this House. I think, and I have suggested this several times, and I have been told by experts; a year ago, there was an opportunity for a five-party consultation at which the majority of the parliamentary parties were able to attend. I'm sorry that Fidesz-KDNP didn't do this then and didn't show up, even though there was Gábor Zacher who gave his opinion on these drugs and how to prevent them from spreading or discovering them again, or how to speed up their efforts to get them on the no-list. How can you speed it up within the health system? If the number of machines, instruments, equipment used to detect, filter and localize this should be increased here in Hungary, this is the first to be able to list these substances as soon as possible. I mean, it's an obstacle. The other one, which was his point of view, and I think that's quite relevant, because if we don't do that, we'll fall into a circular vitiosus, a vicious circle, that we'll just run after the distributors and producers, that it would be enough to legislate and list ourselves if a ministerial decree were to regulate it. I mean, it was a commission that decided to put it on the list. I think that there are no professionals in this Parliament who can override this. Everyone probably agrees with the listing. I would suggest to Mr Secretary of State that you consider thinking more about this at ministerial level. And it would really be possible to reduce this six-month shift, this so-called waiting list here for fentanyl or other psychoactive substances. This could make it a little faster, and the purchase of those machine-tool parks. Hungary is not in the European Union in a first-class classification of how quickly we can identify newer and newer substances that appear on the market. That's how we help the professionals. [[15.40]] It can be said that the criminal category here in Hungary is so strong that it tries to contain either the habits and principles of dealers or consumers. But I have to say, if we look at either the Philippines or China, there's a very strong anti-drug strategy, and there's a death penalty for drug use, but there are still drug users. Prevention is the other thing that could be done here in Hungary or could be confirmed. Every city, school, and even now they're starting to sell around kindergartens. It is a parent's call to try to stop the sale of these things even physically, because this, I think, is for the survival of our nation. I would like to take a more detailed look at the second item on the agenda, which is the truly burning problem in Hungary today. Once again, thanks to God, fentanyl and its subspecies do not appear here in Hungary from a consumption point of view. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this proposal. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-162	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, the lead speaker of KDNP is coming.
u2018-10-31-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We will also talk about amending a similar convention on the next item. We are now talking about the announcement of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, dated 30 March 1961. It has been said that there are six new compounds. I wouldn't repeat what I said before. I would like to respond to the situation in Hungary with a sentence, as we see here that Hungary has been looking at the regulation of new psychoactive substances and the reduction of the domestic use of designer drugs in recent years. The Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, was the regulation of the European Union in response to current problems as quickly as possible. This tightening of the EU Member States was therefore the first to enter into force. This includes, among other things, strict criminal law rules on designer drugs with European standards. Since 1 January 2014, the law under which all acts involving new psychoactive substances can be sanctioned in the same way as drugs and, as of 1 January 2015, the list of new psychoactive substances is no longer laid down in a government decree but in a ministerial regulation, which allows for a faster response. It has also been said from my fellow Member, Mr Sigismund, that new materials are constantly appearing. Here the rapid response is the most important one, so I think that it is obviously Parliament's duty to announce the amendment of this international convention. Thus, the KDNP fraction supports this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-164	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2018-10-31-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, I wouldn't last a very long time either, because many useful thoughts have been heard so far. On my part, I would like to propose or support one very strongly, which my fellow Member Rig has also said is that this procedure should be accelerated somehow, because it is a cat and mouse game, that chemists are always ahead of us, and there is always a follow-up to not Hungary, but to all such organs in general. So some acceleration would certainly help, and, of course, we ourselves support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-31-166	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Do any of the Members of Parliament still wish to take the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the draft law on psychotropic substances published by Decree-Law No 25 of the year, which was published in Vienna on the announcement of the amendment to the Convention signed on 21 February 1971, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/2932. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Mr Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the EMMI, to the author.
u2018-10-31-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, According to the decision of the United Nations Committee on Narcotics, six more psychotropic compounds were added to the so-called II. List. This list is also part of the Convention signed in Vienna in 1971. The registry classification shall be taken over by each State signatory to the Convention, while the additional rules may be adapted by the Member States themselves. Five of the six substances in question have a mind-altering effect similar to that of cannabis, and one of the substances is a derivative of amphetamines. Three of the six compounds were also classified by the Hungarian risk assessment as dangerous psychotropic substances, which fall into the same category as drugs, so they are already included in the so-called Hungarian P1 list. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that the Parliament recognises its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions. That is why I ask this House to support T/2932. Bill No. 1. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-168	Thank you very much. The keynote speeches will be held. First up is Congressman Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As mentioned earlier, the regulation of drugs and psychotropic substances is based on three conventions. We are now talking about amending the Convention on Psychotropic Substances signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. The lists of this Convention cover international legislation, which the signatory states are obliged to adopt, while the lists for domestic legislation are drawn up by the signatory Member States themselves. It should be stressed that domestic legislation may deviate from the international one by allowing more stringent regulation. This domestic regulation is governed by Government Decree No. 66 of 2012, of which P1-P4. its lists are drawn up on the basis of lists 1 to 4 updated under the psychotropic convention. On 14 March 2018, the United Nations Committee on Drugs held its 64th session, in which it decided to include six new substances in this list. The bill before us serves the purpose of transferring the decision of the Committee on Drugs to the Hungarian legal order, which is in line with the law on international treaties. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the publication of an amendment to the Convention. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-31-170	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2018-10-31-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, This is the item on the agenda that I think it is worth talking about, and I think that we need to make progress, because this is more of a concern for people living in Hungary's segregation, and I am not only saying that people living in segregation, but also people living in better conditions. In my tight environment, Tapolca, we also meet young people on a daily basis who, after consuming the drug, travel like zombies in our public areas, and whether the public authority or the health system cannot act or prevent these cases, which I often say once again, often end up dead, according to Gábor Zacher. These cannabinoid derivatives, which are similar to cannabis, are more powerful a hundred times or more, because we can't even track them, their solution, their composition, or their mechanism of action, they are put into a state of consciousness, because they are psychoactive agents that kill consumers, the other kind, which we can't completely clear off their composition and mode of action, and it kills. These people usually enjoy the hospitality of emergency rooms, and in many cases it is important to note that, unfortunately, the consumption of these drugs causes death or serious health damage. If you look at what the market offers you for, you can easily identify the people who consume them, since the commercial price of such a cigarette is around HUF 300-500. After eating a cigarette like this, he becomes so conscious that he could die. If you look at the list of substances that have now been banned over the years, this is more than 10 pages long, and the chemists are again well ahead of us, just as they were during the bill we discussed before. On 14 March 2018, this meeting was held, and once again, it is October 31st, six months later, and since then chemists, if not 38, have tried and invented at least 24 types of new drugs. Its composition and chemical composition have been altered, and unfortunately, the authorities are once again helpless, and young people can consume it in the same way. And I think it's XXI. One of the greatest tragedies of the century is that today's youths do not want to use that ugly word, but rather try to gently express themselves by sucking their eyes, and from these mind-numbing drugs they get into a zombie state that is unmanageable, and that is the tragedy of a nation. But if I have to look at which system is most hit and which system is most vulnerable and most overwhelmed, which is to ensure their treatment, I have to say, this is the health system, and in particular emergency care; which, if you look deep into your heart and listen to your conscience, you say it doesn't work at 100%. [[15.50]] After all, if we look at the events of the last few weeks and months, there are a lot of emergency services, and it's all in the health care system, and there's a causal relationship between drug use, psychoactive consumption and the burden on the health system. I mean, when you look at these young people, and I have to say, unfortunately, they are now in Tapolca, the most beautiful part of the town, on the lake, eating these drugs in broad daylight during school hours, with a school, a church and a call for the police, and the tourists coming back from this area. And once again, this is not only Tapolca, but one of the biggest and most pressing problems in Hungary, which can only be prevented by a collective social cooperation by trying to put a drug strategy before people, with the involvement of those professionals or by putting parties at a table, so to speak. Because it may have been good prevention, prevention, information, but it didn't work everywhere. Once again, several professionals have asked us to include in this system, this subsystem, the sources from which those professionals who deal with this can buy equipment and machines, so that they can filter these killers out as soon as possible, and put them on a no-list. And once again, it must be regulated at ministerial level so that Parliament's legislation does not try to regulate this, because we cannot form a counter-opinion because everyone agrees with it, and I think that there is no Member in this House who would say that we should not put this on a non-list. And there's one more thing to think about. For several years, Australians have discovered that they have also been struggling with this problem, whether in terms of morphine, fentanyl or other derivatives or, say, cannabinoid derivatives, that they have made a list, a single list, on the list of what is free, what was not on this list, is therefore prohibited. I do not know, Mr State Secretary, whether such a regulation is being considered by the health government, because it would be reasonable and simple, because what is on the list can be what is not on the list, it cannot be, and so it is not necessary to wait for semesters for another hundred and 200 victims here in Hungary. Once again, most of those who are trying to build the nation's future are young people. Thank you for listening. We support the bill. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2018-10-31-172	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2018-10-31-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The UN Drug Commission has taken a decision on 61/7-12. 6 new compounds are added to these lists, and here the current bill, which is before us, aims to transpose it into the Hungarian legal order. I think the objective can be supported by everyone. I would also like to point out that the penalties in the European Union are not equal. Only in Hungary and Poland, the possession of new psychoactive substances is prohibited, and it also follows that the strictest regulations are in place in Hungary for possession in the European Union. This is why the statistics show that drug offences that have continued to grow until 2014 have been a stagnation since 2014. I believe that the government's objective is clear to protect young people from one of the greatest threats to them, and in this we must cooperate with pro-government, opposition and support the government in these activities. Thank you so much for listening. We support the proposal. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2018-10-31-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP!
u2018-10-31-175	The MSZP faction supports the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-31-176	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As a speaker, Congressman Gergely Farkas asked for an opportunity, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-31-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize in advance for the fact that not only do they have to spend 10 minutes on this technical proposal, but also 5 minutes on it, but I think that this topic, the drug situation in Hungary, is so important that we can talk a little about the current situation, just because we rarely have the opportunity to do so in front of Parliament, and even in the committee responsible. I feel this in itself is not enough when we can talk about it, and in comparison to the severity of the situation, and the worsening trend it has shown not only in our opinion, but in the opinion of professionals, according to all those who see the problems in this area, the processes that have become clear to all of us in recent years. It is perhaps worth looking back at the fact that in 2013 the National Assembly created the national drug strategy, which, by 2020, expressed the desire of Hungary, which could be supported, dare to dream big, says the saying, we can see that the government or the Parliament had a big dream, but what we need to see is that, rather than going in this direction in recent years, the situation is even worse in many respects, and the drug situation in Hungary has started backwards, and the government has taken a number of steps in which this situation might have developed. The spread of designer drugs is a huge problem in the world itself, and it is indeed a competition in which it is difficult to compete with producers, chemists who come up with and spread new drugs on the market at global level even weekly, every few weeks. That is why it is very important to focus on prevention, and despite the importance of prevention, as my fellow Member, Mr Rig, has mentioned, not only that progress has been made in recent years, but in many cases the government has spent even less resources on this, budget appropriations have decreased in recent years. As a result, or in part, there are indications that the average age of young people who try these drugs is decreasing, whether we are talking about designer drugs or about traditional drugs. Indeed, it is not uncommon that not only young people are trying these drugs, they are getting younger, but in many cases small children up to ten years old are being used as couriers by drug runners, just because they believe that children are less stopped by a police officer, they will be less controlled, and indeed such a trend and such specific cases have been shown here in Hungary and worldwide. This is in connection with, I think, prevention, which, unfortunately, is being spent less and less by the government. Another problem is that due to design drugs, as I mentioned, more and more young people are coming into contact with them, so that addictological specialization is becoming more and more something that these young people should be able to use or use. Compared to this, not only could we see the development of this area, but rather its redevelopment, and in many areas of the country these areas of care are not available, which is also a huge problem. It is a huge problem, and I will say again that we do not see the government dealing with this problem in the right way, it would sense the weight of this problem, and accordingly, whether with budget amounts, grants, or the proper development of professionals, by developing the supply system, the addictological care system, it would all take steps to limit this problem from becoming more and more widespread, because, as I say again, we see this, and statistical data confirm this. Allow me to finish by quoting a quote, I would like to quote the opinions of the organisations and professionals working in the field of drugs: despite all efforts to strengthen regulation, the lists of drugs are late, the procedures are long-standing here with my fellow Member, Mr Rig, the efforts to reduce supply are unsuccessful, as the availability of drugs is not reduced, the new medicines are on the market one by one, and now the old ones are back. The market has become more opaque, it seems that in terms of supply reduction, production opportunities, supply volumes are more likely to determine the functioning of the market than supply reduction, legal regulation and enforcement are the only attempts considered weak by professionals. So I urge, through Mr Secretary of State, the government and the few pro-government representatives present to perceive the seriousness of this problem and take effective steps to ensure that, here, in order to protect young people, the budget figures can be improved, whether in training professionals or in dealing with young people who are already troubled. [[16.00]] If this does not happen, but the trend that we have seen here in recent years will continue, it can lead to very, very serious problems. Let's not wait for this serious problem. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-31-178	Thank you, too. Congressman Lajos Rig, two minutes.
u2018-10-31-179	Thank you very much. I'm trying to keep these two minutes, and I'm not gonna go overboard, but I think we really need to talk about this, because it's a killer drug we're talking about. Gábor Zacher said that it is a cannabinoid agent because it is not a marijuana derivative, but a crystalline form of it. This crystal is ordered over the Internet for a few thousand forints, and the largest dealer delivery company, Magyar Posta, brings it to the young people. They dissolve it in a diluent and spray it on tobacco leaves. This is also dangerous because they will not be able to detect the amount, content and amount of action of the reconstituted substance. That's why I say one kills and the other kills. That is why it is so dangerous, and that is why I thought that, in order to act more effectively, it was necessary to transfer the budgetary resources from which they could buy tools that would accelerate the process of identifying these killers. You know, Mr. Secretary, that chemists can produce subforms that are not even in the form of paper here, or even on the level of thought, almost weekly. Therefore, once again, it is a circular vitiosus that I, but I think that none of the people in this room can comprehend when we can catch up with ourselves. Once again, there's not enough legislation, there's four legs in this system. One is parental communication to communicate with his child, because everyone knows when the child gets home, and we ask him what was at school, nothing, and that's how we got our mandatory question, he's his mandatory answer, and then he goes into the room. This is, unfortunately, a step towards drugs, drugs, and psychoactive drugs. Law enforcement, health care and money. If these four are all there, and the most important of that is parental communication, then I think that we will be able to make effective progress. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-31-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[Attila Philip: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, No one's applied for a post-meeting speech. Our work today is done. Good day to you all, and to the memory of our dead this weekend, a peaceful memory among your family and loved ones. Goodbye.
