u2018-07-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, and we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, The third day of the Fourth Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be able to help me, Mr. Winner Vinnai and Mr. György Szilágyi. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Before we start making decisions, we'll have a presence check. Please press one of the voting buttons now. [[Vote. Crying from the opposition benches: Present!]] Thank you. I declare that 178 people are present, the Parliament has a quorum. I would like my fellow Members who have noticed that their voting machines are not working now to signal that. [[No signal.]] I guess all my fellow Members' voting machines are working. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that Serkiian Szván Simon Armenian ethnic advocate has not yet taken over his mandate, so there are no conditions for a mandate certificate. The mandate will therefore take place at our later meeting. Following is T/503 on Hungary's central budget for 2019. Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/503/854. The Single Budget Act No 1 was sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of preliminary consent T/503/855. Number 2 is available on the network. I welcome Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule 36 applies. In accordance with paragraph 11 of paragraph 11, I now enter the word in a 10-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2018-07-20-1	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, As the President indicated, on 16 July 2018, the Speaker of Parliament sent a proposal for a single budget law, including a transfer of amendments adopted by the Parliament on Hungary's central budget for 2019, requesting the Stability Act of the Fiscal Council 25. In its opinion on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the granting of its prior contribution under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the draft budgetary law. On the basis of the examination of the Council, the following decision was taken at its meeting on 17 July 2018. It concluded that the planned government debt ratio of 31 December 2019 was T/503/854 on Hungary's Central Budget Law of 2019. Proposal for a Single Budget Act No 3 § 3 is well-founded, in line with the provisions of the Stability Act and the budgetary processes on which the bill is based. Since the debt ratio of 70,3 per cent, calculated by the end of 2019, is lower than 72,9 per cent expected by the end of 2018, the requirement of Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law is also met. On this basis, the Board gave its prior consent under Article 44 (3) of the Fundamental Law in accordance with Article T/503/854. The final vote on the single budget bill. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, Please allow me, by fulfilling the mandate of the Council, to give very brief reasons for its decision. The framework of the sovereign debt rule is defined by the Fundamental Law as follows: . As long as the government debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a central budget law containing a reduction in the ratio of the government debt to the total domestic total product. The Stability Act also contains the requirement for the development of debt. This Parliament amended from 2016 taking into account the indications of the Fiscal Council. On the basis of the macroeconomic conditions used in the budget planning, for 2019 the following shall apply: as at least one of the projected inflation for the budget year and the real growth rate of gross domestic product does not exceed 3 per cent, the government debt ratio should be reduced by at least 0,1 percentage points. The Council also pointed out in relation to the expected reduction in the debt ratio that, under the Stability Act, transactions generating debt in foreign currency should be taken into account at the same rate as those laid down in the Central Budget Act when calculating the sovereign debt ratio. The movements of the exchange rate therefore do not affect the compliance of the bill with the Fundamental Law. However, the Council considered it beneficial that the foreign exchange ratio of the government debt fell from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 26 per cent by the end of 2017 and was expected to continue to decrease in the following years, and that debt financing mainly relies on domestic savings. This resulted in a significant reduction in the exposure of debt to external effects. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. On the basis of a review of the proposal for a single budget law, it concluded that the changes in appropriations adopted by Parliament compared to the bill submitted would increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem by HUF 267.5 million. Both the cash flow and profit deficit and the planned amount of government debt remain unchanged. Thus, I can repeat what I said at the beginning of the general debate on the bill that the debt rule is fulfilled, as in 2019 the debt ratio will decrease by more than 2.6 percentage points compared to that provision. Thus, the reserve is adequate to cover the impact of risks arising from the expected development of domestic and international economic factors affecting the growth of the national economy, the revenue and expenditure of public finances. In the reasons for the Council's decision, it indicated that the source of the increase in expenditure had been created, in addition to internal transfers, by increasing the allocation of tax revenues. The Fiscal Council has reviewed economic developments, including economic growth, inflation, external factors and financial market developments, and their possible impact on the implementation of the 2019 budget. In view of all of this, it considered that the reduction in the sovereign debt ratio could be achieved safely. However, in order to meet the deficit target and the government debt ratio set, it considered that the government's management should continue to be disciplined in 2019, that the increase in expenditure or decrease in revenue due to possible changes in macro-conditions should be adequately offset by its increased margin of manoeuvre in recent years. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your kind attention. I wish you a good summer, a good rest, and a successful autumn. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-20-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/503/854. Proposal for a single budget law No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a single budget law by 128 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, T/710 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the maintenance rights of the National University of Public Service Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/710/12. T/710/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 3, 5 and 6 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 128 against and two abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 128 against and two abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 127 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/710/12. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/710/15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. Next, the 2010 CLXXXII on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. T/713. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/713/6. T/713/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group is T/713/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this resolution, Jobbik's group is the T/713-2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 127 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/713/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 159 votes to 21, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/713.9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 159 votes in favour, 20 against and 5 abstentions. It follows that Act I of 2004 on Sport and Act CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association on public benefit status and on the functioning and support of civil society organisations. T/712 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/712/5. and its summary report is T/712/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/712/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes to 48, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/712/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes to 48, with 8 abstentions. Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. T/624. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/624/5. T/624/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/624/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/624/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. The T/532 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports is hereby concluded. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/532/7. T/532/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/532/7. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes to none, with 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/532/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 178 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. It follows a series of amendments to individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the T/625 on the immigration special tax. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/625/22. T/625/23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 4, the Group of the LMP Group Nos 6, 7 and 15 and the Group of Dialogues Nos 13 and 14. [[14.30]] That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 13. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 131 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 15 is proposed by Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal also excludes Amendment 13. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 13 is proposed by Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 155 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 130 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 14 is proposed by Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 132 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/625/22. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 34 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/625/26. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 33 against and 23 abstentions. Following up is the T/627 on social contribution tax. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/627/11. T/627/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to Rule 4 of the MSZP Group, the Group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 4 and No 5 and 6 and the Group of Jobbik. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 4, Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members, and in Amendment 3, Tamás Sneider presented a proposal with the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes to 131, without abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/627/11. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes to 50, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/627/16. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes to 48, with 8 abstentions. Next up is the T/707 on the right of assembly. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/707/10. T/707/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Dialogue Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 6 and of amendments No 3, 4 and 5 of the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Kocsis-Cake Olivio. The adoption of this proposal excludes amendments 3 and 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 148 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Amendment 3 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Lóránt Keresztes presented the amendment number 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is T/707/10. A separate vote was initiated on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. We will decide on this first and then we will decide on further points in the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/707/10. Point 2 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment point by 164 votes in favour, 22 against and 1 abstention. [[14.40]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/707/10. Further points of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/707/15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/706 on the protection of privacy. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/706/7. T/706/8 and T/706/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the Dialogue Group, the Group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendment No 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Kocsis-Cake Olivio. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 2. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament has not maintained the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 131 against and nine abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/706/7. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/706/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 153 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/386 on the protection of business secrets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/386/6. Number T/386/7 and its summary meaning T/386/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 131 votes in favour and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/386/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes to 17, with 37 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/386/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes to 17, with 38 abstentions. Following a series of discussions between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders (T/533). Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/533/9. T/533/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/533/9. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/533/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 23 abstentions. It follows from the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. T/708 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/708/6. T/708/7 and T/708/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/708/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 52, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/708/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai will be replaced in the notary seat by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] It follows that T/384 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to water abstraction will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/384/7. T/384/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/384/7. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 39 against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/384/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 39 against and 16 abstentions. Next up is T/628 on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[14.50]] T/628/5. T/628/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/628/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rules are 51. Paragraph 1 of Article T/628/8. has initiated a postponement of the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I will ask the rapporteur to explain the reasons for his initiative.
u2018-07-20-3	Thank you very much. I don't want to justify it. [[Gergely Harvestó: We were so curious!]]
u2018-07-20-4	Thank you. Therefore, the rapporteur does not wish to justify it. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to postpone T/628. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament postponed the final vote on the proposal by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 39 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, T/856. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/856. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 130 votes in favour, 22 against and 33 abstentions. It follows from the state tasks related to the development of Budapest and the agglomeration, as well as the implementation of certain improvements, and the amendment of certain laws in the context of the European Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/857/3. and the summary report by T/857/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/857/3. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/857. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 127 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I wish you a pleasant rest during your summer vacation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and I would ask my fellow Members who are leaving this Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so quietly and in a short time. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a post-meeting address on the shocking state of the obstetrics of the Kaposvár hospital. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-20-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In government communication, the situation in rural hospitals has been fully resolved, and there has been a lot of improvements in this area, so there is nothing to be done here. The hospital in Kaposvár now received 51 million forints from the government for planning the obstetrics department and 440 million for equipment procurement. This is a good step, but it does not solve the problems that need to be solved, and the fact that this is only a fraction of the 4-5 billion required shows that they do not take seriously the problem of Kaposvár Hospital and, in particular, the worst state of Kaposvár Obstetrics. In the hospital in Kaposvár, 60 percent of emergency cases are basically not an emergency. What simply happens is that because of the lack of doctors and nurses, when people go for different things in primary care, they don't get any treatment in primary care, so they have to wait until they get worse in emergency care, that's 60 percent so. There are very few nurses, as everywhere else, and last week, there has been news that carnivorous bacteria have also appeared in the hospital in Kaposvár, which causes a lot of hospital infections, and it also takes people's trust that they will be able to obtain healing and other medical techniques if such news keeps coming. [[15.00]] It would be worth a special speech on the agenda, but it is also true in the case of the hospital in Kaposvár that they say that they are constantly increasing the salaries of doctors and health workers, while at present we know this from a specific citizen's letter who, after 30 years in Kaposvár hospital, earns HUF 135,000 net as an administrative staff member. I'd like to say a few things about obstetrics. The percentage of dam cuts in Hungary is already more than six times the percentage of 10 percent established by WHO, 61 percent, but 75 percent in Kaposvár hospital, one of the most, this is more than seven times the number required in Hungary. In addition, there are many more imperial births than would be fundamentally justified, and this is especially the case in Kaposvár obstetrics. Part of the reason for this is that there is an amazing shortage of doctors and nurses. Several citizens who gave birth there turned to us on the subject that there were so few doctors that they could not pay enough attention to the fact that they started giving birth in time because they simply did not have the opportunity to wait. Moreover, there are very few nurses in obstetrics who are very poorly paid, and the acquisition of equipment alone will not solve this, which is, of course, good. Going on: several citizens also said that babies get urinary tract infections very often. The rate of urinary tract infections in Kaposvár obstetrics is more than four times higher than in the country. However, no concrete measures have been taken by the government in this regard. This is typically something that would be relatively cheap and easy to handle. The basic and every birth is almost the same in Kaposvár, that it is necessary to carry an antiseptic cloth or diaper for the woman who is giving birth because they do not receive it. In many cases, this means financial expenses, or a very big problem, although, let's say, I will never experience this in person, but I assume that it is a big problem if a person, when he is about to give birth, has to get everything from his antiseptic wipe to his diaper. Overall, the situation of Kaposvár hospital is very bad, the situation of obstetrics is particularly bad. The government will not be able to solve this by purchasing assets in itself. We think that instead of the success propaganda, which applies to rural hospitals, the government should be more concerned with giving European-level care to those who have to go to the hospital in Kaposvár instead of carnivorous bacteria. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Serbian national minority advocate Alexov Lyubomir also applied for a post- Agenda address:, 25th year under the title of the Act on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On this day, 25 years ago, the National Assembly adopted the Act on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities with the aim of strengthening the identity of those belonging to the minority community by regulating the rights of the 13 Hungarian nationalities recognised by law, strengthening the preservation of their language and culture and the maintenance of their traditions. However, before reviewing the role and significance of the minority law, let us briefly look at the precedents of the birth of the law. We must refer back to the years of the change of regime, when the process of democratisation started in Hungary, during which the minority issue was also on the agenda, according to ethnicity, in the language used at the time, and from 1988-89 the proposals on this issue were already in place. On the proposals and initiatives, political leaders highlighted their commitment to the issue of nationality, but the literature on this issue also mentions two other practical issues. On the one hand, the lack of codification of minority rights could have slowed down the process of accession to the European Union, and on the other hand, the law also had an exemplary role to play in relation to the problems of Hungarians beyond the borders. The preparation of the legislation continued in the early 1990s, which was now joined by the newly established National and Ethnic Minority Office and the Minority Round Table, established in January 1991, led by Doncsev Toso. New drafts have been drawn up, which have already included the ban on assimilation, the principle of free confession of identity, the principle of guaranteeing and protecting individual and collective rights, the need to establish minority self-governments and a material support system. But the draft of the Minority Round Table, as a matter of course, included other strong permissions and, in addition, attention had to be paid to the different characteristics of minority communities. The discussions continued, in which the parties and experts of public bodies, minority organisations, Members of Parliament took part, and which finally reached a compromise and led to the adoption of a joint draft in September 91. After long legislative preparation, the draft of the law could begin, which, thanks to a six-party consensus, was adopted by almost unanimous vote, with 1 abstention and 1 non-voting vote. As regards the definition of the legal status of national minorities, it is important to point out that the minority law defined the right to the identity of national and ethnic minorities as a fundamental right of liberty for the part of universal human rights and the individual and community rights of minorities. The law provided for the prohibition of discrimination of minorities and laid down the provisions of the Constitution according to which national and ethnic minorities in Hungary are state-creating factors. Among the objectives of the Minority Act, the preservation of diverse cultural values should also be highlighted, for which it has also made it possible to establish institutional foundations. The implementation of cultural autonomy was put into the hands of the national minority self-government, while the nationalities, above all the national authorities, took advantage of the possibility given by the law from the 2000s to establish new institutions and to take over the right of maintenance of existing institutions, began the conscious establishment, construction and expansion of their cultural and educational autonomy. From the perspective of the quarter century, the 1993 Minority Act, its significance and impact, is still present today. It has raised the regulation of national minority rights to a legal level, established a system of national minority self-governments, and has enabled the establishment and establishment of a system of ethnic institutions in order to achieve national cultural and educational autonomy. In recent years, significant government subsidies are also available to ensure the stable and balanced functioning of national authorities and their institutions and to allow further development of the national minority institutional system. Finally, the minority law directly led representatives of nationalities in Hungary to the parliamentary representation, as a minority representative and 12 ethnic spokespersons can participate in the work of the National Assembly in this term. Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Félix Farkas is a Roma minority advocate. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Title of his statement: Protection of nationalities from here and beyond.
u2018-07-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm sure you're all aware that a few weeks ago, they attacked Roma's temporary camp with baseball bats and knives in the outskirts of Lemberg. A 24 - year - old young man was a victim of racial hatred, and a 10-year - old child was hospitalized with stab wounds. The death victim and the injured were Roma with Hungarian lips. It is unacceptable that such a thing can happen today. In my view, action must be taken against such extremes. [[15.10]] This shall not happen in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In the 18th century, people should be subjected to atrocities due to their skin color or membership of a nationality. The fact that a Hungarian young man living in Ukraine has to die because of his gypsy origin is outrageous, reprehensible, unjust, dangerous and tragic. Moreover, the aforementioned Roma attack was not the first in Ukraine, only twice this year it was attacked by the temporary camps of Roma of Hungarian origin in Kiev, but similar cases have occurred in Ternopil and Lemberg before. Given that Hungary ensures fundamental rights for all, without distinction between any discrimination, namely race, colour, gender, disability, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other situation, I believe that there is little tacit condemnation of the behaviour of the perpetrators, the attack on the Roma or any other nationality. After the event, I immediately contacted Ukraine's Ambassador in Hungary, who, in addition to expressing her condolences, said that Ukraine is also protecting its nationalities, including the Roma. I also contacted Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The Ministry has stated that it condemns all attacks on ethnicity and ethnicity, to take place anywhere in the world. Following the horrific attack, the Kiev EU delegation issued a declaration in agreement with the Ambassador of Hungary to Ukraine. I felt it was my moral duty to offer my condolences to the Hungarian Roma family in Lemberg, so on 17 July 2018 I and my Ukrainian spokesperson, Brigitta Superák, traveled to Lemberg. The day before the journey, in the early hours of the morning, we received the unfortunate news that the kindergarten in Nagydobrony, in the Ukrainian settlement inhabited by the Hungarians, in one of the Roma camps in Nagydobrony, and the prayer house also operating there, mainly visited by Roma believers, became the ruin of the fire. There was no question that, by interrupting our current journey to Lemberg, we would visit the Roma camp in Nagydobrony and the Roma family whose house had become burned out and uninhabitable as a result of the spread of fire. In Great Dobrony, as far as we know, they live together peacefully, gypsy and not gypsy people. The gypsy living there mainly lives on agricultural work, has difficulty earning a living, but they are working, and they have been able to fully integrate into the majority society. Hence, it is not permissible for a person to be left out anywhere in the world because of his origin. Gypsyism there has also proved that they work, go to prayer houses, send their children to kindergartens and schools, so they are able to keep their cultural identity to fit in. On Wednesday, in Lemberg, the governor informed me that the Ukrainian authorities had discovered the perpetrators of the Roma murders faster than usual, and that they would all be punished for such a serious crime. The governor condemns any distinction between nationalities. Oleh Sinyutka underlined that there is nothing to explain crimes that require human sacrifice. He and the city administration both condemned what had happened, but I specifically asked them to put more emphasis on prevention so that it would never happen again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As a citizen of Roma nationality, I know and feel that Hungary and the Hungarian government pay particular attention to the protection of nationalities in our country. Ethnic tensions can occur anywhere in the world, but they cannot reach the point of demanding human life. The victim wasn't just killed, he was literally slaughtered. I believe that it is always the responsibility of a particular country's leadership to find the sources of tension, whether external or internal, as is the task of the country's leadership to establish peace within the country. I thank the Hungarian Government here for the moral and financial support of our nationalities here. [[The president's ringing again.]] I am also thinking about the support of nationalities increased by nearly HUF 5 billion, and it has also found and eliminated internal resources. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] I also think about the support of nationalities increased by nearly HUF 5 billion, and the internal resources have been found and eliminated (sic!) , with its strong stand against Brussels and its immigration policy (The President's bell rings again). protects both the majority society and us nationalities from the external source of tension. I am glad that Hungary is not only afraid because we belong to one of the nationalities living here (The President is ringing again). But we live together in peace, and we can all proudly assume our identity in majority society. Here I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members and gentlemen to their financial support for the reconstruction of the Dobrony prayer house. Prime Minister Zoltán Balog has already given his support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the speakers and DK.]]
u2018-07-20-10	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Of course, by accepting his first speech and the gravity of the case, I allowed the time-frame to be exceeded. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech with the title "Honour to Sárvár." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The walls of this House have been witnesses of Hungarian history ever since Imre Steindl's plans were built by busy hands. The House of the country is a place for debate, but it can also witness that together we can rejoice in the successes and joys of smaller and larger communities, which can make the whole nation richer. I believe that every village and city in Hungary adds something to the beauty, construction and pride of the whole country, because local patriotism is the foundation of patriotism. In the spirit of these thoughts, I would like to pay tribute to the seat of my constituency, Sárvár. 2018 is a special year in the life of the town of Rába; it is its anniversary that in 1328 he received urban privileges from King Robert Károly and 50 years ago that he regained his modern city title in Sárvár in 1968. So the city, whose urban roots are from the Middle Ages, is half a century old. Some of us may remember 1968, but medieval events lead us to generations far away. The castle still shows the glory of the age whose hall represents an unprecedented spectacle. You know, the 16th. One of the cultural centers of the country was established in the century, thanks to the Nádasdys. Under the leadership of János Sylvester, a printing press was created and the New Testament was published in 1541. This became the first book in the country printed in Hungarian. In 1556 Tinódi Lantos Sebestyén died there. Sárvár was also a cradle of the Hungarian Reformation. In 1848 Lajos Batthyány was the first elected parliamentary representative of this town and Géza Gárdonyi taught there. That's where III died. King Louis of Bavaria, the last king of Bavaria. CHAPTER XX It should also be noted that in the blood sacrifice of the First and Second World Wars, the Sárvár people took on heroism, and in 1956, the city's population moved for the freedom of Hungary. In the new millennium, the historical settlement became a real spa town, since for years the number of guest nights shows the settlement on one of the first ten places. Dear House, This short historical tableau shows that there, on the coast of Rába, Hungarians have lived for centuries, who raised their children there, worked there, prayed there, and there loved and considered the land as their home, for which they did everything. Let us be proud of them, because they kept the city for us, for Hungarians today and for the growth of the whole country. Thanks to them, we can say: It was Hollow, it is Hollow, it will be Hollow. We therefore pay tribute to the generations that have come before us, which have given us the settlement as an inheritance, to today's citizens. [[15.20]] At the same time, history is like a relay run: each generation has its own task to perform under the circumstances. So now, when we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the inauguration of Sárvár, we can also draw strength from the past to continue building Sárvár in the next period. Thank you to all citizens living today for doing this with honor in the city every day. And for the future, I wish that all those who will see this city as their home should love it as much as their predecessors did, be proud of it and want to advance its fate. Dear Parliament, Happy birthday to Sárvár. Happy birthday to the Sárvárians. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-20-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post-meeting address with the title "City picture for the living countryside".
u2018-07-20-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about settlements, we often think that the built environment is the settlements, the streets, the buildings, and the really built environment. However, in the first part of my speech today, I would like to talk about the external areas, and I do so because this week we voted on the bill on the World Tourism Day, which Jobbik also supported, because we consider it extremely important to have 10.3 percent of tourism as defined in GDP, and we thought that by doing so, our country could host such a large event, perhaps also have other benefits for the settlements in the country, especially the settlements in tourist destinations. There is no need to go too far from Siófok to Balatonszabadi, to the next settlement, from which I also received a citizen's announcement that there are huge amounts of illegal garbage on the outskirts of agricultural land. This is not the only one in the country, almost all settlements can report on this. And why does tourism have to do with this? Because more and more people choose to spend their free time walking around in the open air among their families. Why is it dangerous for us if we can't deal with illegal bastards? These waste heaps are practically mostly construction debris and other materials that would not be taken up, i.e. these waste treatment plants, but the waste law is not strict enough, it does not tell and it does not contain sanctions for general contractors who virtually say that they are dumping it, but it is not proven by anything. One good example: just a year ago, after the renovation of the Csiky Gergely Theatre in Kaposvár, practically the debris of the renovation appeared in the forest. We are experiencing increasingly extreme weather, not uncommon when in a short period of time 100 millimeters of precipitation falls, and through these illegal waste heaps it practically washes into agricultural areas the impurities that will eventually contaminate us in the food chain. And it is not enough that it shows virtually a very ugly view, a terrible image of the settlement outside, but it is dangerous even for human health. I respectfully ask the ruling parties to do something, because if we present it in the form of a bill, all this has been proven here in the budget, it will be swept off the table if they see the proposal, in the corner of the bill, that it was presented from opposition factions. Do something to keep the construction debris from being dumped, to make the regulations stricter, but not for general contractors to place them in the neighbouring forest or maybe tens of kilometers into nature! And then if we walk in a little bit, and if you're going to nature travel, let's go on the train for a while. Property owned by the Hungarian State Railways, which is directly next to the railway, is practically always crooked. Very, very rarely, when the municipality is already satisfied, and can no longer overlook the rascals that are on these coppers, it practically gets it done at its own expense, from the sources that the state cannot provide to the municipality, since this property is not owned by the municipality. But if you are a tourist, the guest night there rightly expects you to be able to pass along a beautiful, well - arranged railway line and enjoy the scenery. And then one more thing, if we're gonna get into downtown. In Siófok, right in the centre of downtown, exiting the old post office building, which is also part state-owned building, collapses with plaster, hasn't done anything with it for years, the municipality doesn't currently have the resources to renovate this building, and it is extremely accident-dangerous and, from a municipal perspective, simply outrageous as it looks. We ask your support for this. With all due respect, I'd like you to take care of the settlement image for the living land. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-20-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, notary of the National Assembly, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Learnings of the U20 Women's Junior Handball World Championship." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-20-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last weekend we could call it a sports weekend, as there was a world championship final in football, and there was a world championship final in women's handball at the U20 World Championship. Now I could talk about the World Championship Finals, where the Croatians played the finals, and I could tell you that the Croatians don't have a stadium, the Croatians don't have Tao support for re-education, but the Croatians do have football, they have fans, they have teams, they have teams, there's a team, there's a result, and there's supplies without Tao support. Croats don't have words like we have big words for football, but there are results. I could also say that I must grieve Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that we are not geographically far from the Croatians, but at the level of football we are very, very far from them. But that is not what I want to talk about, because what gave me the greatest experience this weekend is the performance of the Hungarian team who became world champions at the U20 Junior Women's Handball World Championship. And the real experience was not even given by the game, nor by the fact that they won this World Championship undefeated, but by the behaviour of these young girls, the enthusiasm of these young girls and the way they behaved outside the field and outside the field. I think it gave me the greatest experience, because these girls set an example for all of us: they worked as a team, placed their individual interests above team interests. You could see this absolutely, and you could also measure it from the way they were cheering on the bench for those of their peers who might have played in their seats, and you could see that in Hungarian society there was not even the slightest spark of such a characteristic envy in these girls. And then these young ladies showed me, and I could say, by my age, that we're almost children, that we can work wonders together, that we just have to work together, and if we were to work together, and if we're even combined with talent, then we could be as invincible as they were at this U20 World Championship, because they couldn't win. Once again, I am convinced that besides playing very well, they are very talented in handball, to succeed, this is what they have shown out of the field and, by the way, in team unity there. What was even more uplifting to me, and this was the golden moment of this weekend, is that these young people are often accused of not being interested in anything at the changed age, only technical novelties and the like, and they no longer deal with such things as patriotism or the fate of Hungary and Hungary. Whoever saw the awards show, who saw how this world champion team sang the Anthem, it was something uplifting. These young girls, I can safely say, with glistening eyes, pride, faith, and singing the Anthem in such a way that the smallest part of that misfortune could not be taken out. These girls have also set an example for all of us during the singing of the Anthem, they have set an example for all of us, and I believe that both the Hungarian government and all the responsible leaders who live in the world of sport should be appreciated and thanked for this performance, for this example. I am now trying to contribute so much that I will read the list of the team that won the U20 World Championship: Bino Boglárka, Dorottya Faluvégi, Dorottya Fodor Csenge, Laura Giricz, Noémi Háfra, Petra Hlogyik, Bernadett Hornyák, Laura Horváth, Greta Kácsor, Katrin Klujber, Bettina Kuti, Rita Lakatos, Greta Márton, Greta Márton, Noémi Pásztor, Laura Money, Suba Sára, Kitti Szabó, Petra Tóvizi, Petra Golovin Vladimir, Krisztina Pigniczki. Great, great thanks to them, and thank you so much for this experience. [[15.30]]
u2018-07-20-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-20-17	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, we can stand in the walls of Parliament, following the agenda of my fellow Member György Szilágyi, as the Hungarian team has indeed shown amazing success in sports success and human maintenance at the U20 World Cup. At the same time, I am a little disappointed that, after the end of the budgetary debate, a government which has declared a demographic turn has unfortunately not been able to achieve a meaningful shift on the issue of our largest national draft. This is particularly strange for me when I had an analysis of the May and June 1970 edition of the Tiszatáj newspaper, where, under the circumstances, Demographer Andorka Rudolf carried out an in-depth analysis of the cause of the decrease in birth numbers, about what might be behind the phenomenon. In his complaint dated 1968, he described the following. Its smaller nuance from the time that only 94 percent of the population lived in the family, and 6 percent were already single, and 31 percent of the family members were childless, 37 percent were single children, 22 percent were two children, and they continued. The author has highlighted such fundamental moments that, even if we could not be envious of them today, they imagine a much more idealised state than we are now given, and we should move from this catastrophic situation. We need to see that, although the emergency bell was ringing around 1970, the situation has deteriorated dramatically since then, and if only the one-time congressman goes out into the corridor and takes on the press review of the issue of childbearing made available by the Office of Parliament and, by the way, it was possible to take a copy of it today as well, and I must say that on page 1 of the collection there are experimental measures that have typically been taken since the 2000s in order to prevent the population disaster, but the stubborn numbers are confronted that despite the weight of the discount, the number of live births has fallen again unfortunately in the previous year, and the desired displacement has not been achieved. Here it is classified that the protection of marriage and its support will be implemented, and the protection of the fetus will be sought from conception, so a number of very important fundamental principles have been laid down, which I can only support. It can also be seen how many debates have been held here on textbook discounts and catering discounts, as to how much a system of free use for textbooks can be considered as a deep form of family support, but I am basically in favour of all the government's family support measures whose demographic projection is positive. At the same time, the list shows state housing subsidies as a kind of achievement under the last two governments. Typically, they think of the family's home-building discount, the CSOK, which can affect own-owned property above a certain income level. But I also have to say that, in terms of the average and typical Hungarian living situation, the government's so-called housing support system cannot cause any demographic impact, since it cannot eradicate housing poverty, it lacks a rental program, which would be the only option for many young Hungarians to start their lives; it is an alternative to emigration, which has a disastrous effect. However, in this draft budget, this current government, during the transformation of the cafeteria system, will be able to increase the amount of money grouped on the SZÉP card, the only type of benefit, and, after all, will cause housing chaos and decline, and will put young Hungarians in a more difficult position. It can also be seen that we should take a number of measures here with public agreement, so that this national sequence can reach zero levels within 20 or 30 years, so that we can at least get from the state of eclipse to the level of survival, but until this Parliament can agree on such small details, I think that we can all be ashamed of ourselves. The Jobbik faction tries to put every improving amendment proposal on the table, we have a complete programme in this area, but until a national minimum can be placed on the table in order to improve the situation of family support, housing subsidies and population, we will all be disgraced in history. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title... "What Fidesz has left out of the budget." I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join Mr Kárpat in the speech by my fellow Member, Daniel, to what he said. We believe, let us say here in Jobbik's faction that the greatest national tragedy is the demographic disaster affecting Hungary. This population failure, this demographic winter, if it goes on like this, we have to say it will also be the time of the eternal ice age. It should be seen that thirty or a few years ago, in the early eighties, the population of Hungary exceeded 10 million 700 thousand people. Since then, this population has decreased by a million. It should also be said that if we were to face up to the fact that there are different demographic trends in Hungary in the case of the majority society and the Roma minority, this figure, this population disaster, would be even more serious. It must be said that the non-Gypsy population has lost some 1 million 600 thousand people in Hungary over the last 38 years. Our experts believe that in this budget there would have been some HUF 700 billion of room for manoeuvre. We are apprehensive and stunned to the fact that the government even swept our amendment which would have aimed at giving the Institute of Kopp Mária a double budget support for the nation and for the families as much as Fidesz intended for this deficiency and respectable work for the 19th year. We really don't understand what's going on here. And if we go a little lower and I look at my narrower Patriots, let me say that last year, 2636 children in Somogyország saw the light of day, while 4573 children lost their lives. If we add the emigrants to this, we have to see that the population of Somogy County is reduced by at least 1 percent per year. I have to say, the Ormania will suck this county in, and the fate that awaits Somogyország will also be the fate of Hungary. In order for these young people to stay there, it would be necessary to create living conditions in villages and smaller settlements. What we have now is actually just the thermal water that's under our feet. The agricultural land has been brought to known oligarchs, Dombs, holding thousands of acres of land per village, these apparently close to government. What can be based on survival, I can often bring up here the example of Babócsa, Csokonyavisonta or even Sulok, tourism, medicinal tourism, tourism based on thermal water. [[15.40]] But please, as long as the excellent medicinal water in Babocsa has been drained into the Rinya Creek, the locals can only dream of it there. I must say that half of the village's youth is working outside Austria. Interestingly, there they were able to make sure that those ski resorts, those small hotels, were able to absorb a lot of labor. We cannot manage this treasure well here in Hungary. Our villages are empty, the population is getting old, and the fact is that the example of Somogyszentim may be in our minds, like a disaster to be avoided, where there was once a famous farm school all over the country, but today the ruins of the last building have been demolished. It's important to deal with them. It would also have been important to address the need to have adequate access to this area, those sack settlements, those small settlements that will be able to increase and enrich roads that will attract and attract investors and tourists. You have also swept these points off the table, as I would mention a more limited local problem in the case of former residual areas, which are protected by nature protection, which are not indemnified. This means that some 1,600 hectares of land have been transferred to the Duna-Drava National Park, its management, and the people who would have been covered by this land fortune have not yet been compensated by the Hungarian state, and the value of this 1,600 hectares of land is HUF 1.5-2 billion. A thousand families would expect compensation from Barcson and his neighborhood. Unfortunately, this one was wiped out, too. That's how much the ruling party was interested in their problem. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-20-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title of the legacy of Semmelweis. Congressman, Minister, you have the floor.
u2018-07-20-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As Minister, of course, I am pleased that we adopted the tax and budgetary laws by a 70% majority a few minutes ago, but I would like to speak now as a Member. It is our duty to pay attention to the outstanding personalities of our country, the people who, with their achievements, have paved the way for the development of the world. Ignác Semmelweis was such a man without a doubt, so on the 200th anniversary of his birth we honor his work with a commemorative year. As a representative and a member of the government, I think it is important that we talk about what we do with our own instruments to improve health care, what we do to ensure that the Hungarian people are given the best possible care and better and more modern conditions. The result of this work is already visible at national level, as since 2010 we have been able to achieve HUF 500 billion in infrastructure and HUF 400 billion in wage development in the field of health care. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. As a parliamentary representative of the district, I am well aware that the development of the health care system of Budapest and, in particular, the improvement of the operating conditions of hospitals and clinics are also a separate task. That is why the government has decided, in recent times, to implement concentrated development here. The electorate's decision will allow this work to continue next year. Within the framework of the programme. Healthy Budapest, significant developments will take place in the capital city and in the county of Pest in the coming years. At the same time, I have paid particular attention to the development of health institutions in my constituency in recent years. I can tell you that we have been able to start and finish a lot of large-scale investments in this area, which have brought about a positive change for the citizens of Buda and Óbuda and, in many cases, for those living in the agglomeration. As a congressman, let me mention some of these. It will be built with HUF 6.8 billion in support of the II. New district health service building. Nearly HUF 2 billion is in progress at St. John's Hospital, whose new nursing home was handed over a few months ago. More than HUF 17 billion will be added to several buildings of the National Institute of Rheumatology and Physiotherapy. We provide HUF 12 billion for the expansion of the Buda Mercy Hospital. The development of St. Francis Hospital is also under way in the area of the district with €2.5 billion support. At the border of the constituency, the XII. development of district outpatient care in the Kútvölgyi út building of Semmelweis University. Last but not least, I mention St. Margaret's Hospital, where a number of improvements have already been completed, and an additional HUF 1.8 billion development is under way under the Healthy Budapest. Just this week we announced it in the framework of the Healthy Budapest.The government supports the third outpatient care program with more than HUF 5.1 billion. Renovation of the site of St. Margaret's Center in the district. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As Minister of Finance, I would add that the 2019 budget, thanks to the economic performance of Hungary, contains the resources necessary for the implementation of the. Healthy Budapest, and for the development of the country's health care next year. As a representative, I will continue to try to ensure that in my constituency, Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In its district there are developments that serve the people who live here well in everyday life, in the care of the elderly, in education, in the care of children, as well as in sports and recreation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-20-22	Thank you, Congressman, thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches following today's agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2018. I thank you for your work and wish you a good rest during summer vacation. The meeting's closed.
