u2018-06-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd day of the Second Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, on 27 June, the Hungarian nation has been remembering our King Saint László for centuries. King László of St. Laszlo, whose strict laws greatly contributed to the consolidation of the country's public order and public security, has already earned the title of protector of the country as a prince, following the victories of the nomadic troops that invaded the country. The 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. Law therefore declared this day, 27 June, St. László's day, the national day of the vigilante service. The creation of public security and public order and its maintenance are the fundamental rights and obligations of the State, but this task can only be performed well if there is a sense of self-defence and ability in society. For this reason, in 2011 the National Assembly provided the citizens responsible for the safety of their environment with the possibility of strengthening the self-defense of Hungarian society within the institutional framework of the Civil Guard. As regards the recognition of the outstanding work of our law enforcement and military bodies, it has been said several times, in the House of Parliament, that the protection of the state's order based on freedom and democracy and the daily safety of citizens are among the noblest professions. These words of appreciation are particularly relevant to our vigilantes, who, driven by their outstanding and exemplary social responsibility, do all this work as a second profession, on a voluntary basis, without compensation. In today's world of migrant crisis, there are so-called civilians who are willing to risk the order and interests of our country for money to order external interest groups, while our vigilantes defend Hungary's order and security with internal motivation and conviction, without payment. In recent years, on the side of our police and defence officers, our vigilantes have also taken part in the fight against illegal migration. In addition to their daily crime prevention work in our public areas and outside areas, they can be seen in disaster situations, as well as at the head of various child and family protection, environmental and health protection or even road safety programmes. The number of our vigilantes who wish to do so personally for their community and environment is now more than 63,000, who perform their service in the more than 2 thousand Citizens' Associations. According to the National Citizen's Association, our vigilantes serve more than 9 million hours a year, an average of 150 hours per person of volunteer service. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Over more than two and a half decades after the change of regime, our citizens gained the trust and recognition of our law enforcement bodies, our local governments and, above all, our citizens by their unbroken dedication and increasingly prepared personnel. Today, the Civil Guard has become an important social institution for the protection of the country. Today, the Parliament expresses its respect and thanks to the vigilantes, who deserve respect for their service every day of the year. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019 will begin. The bill is T/503. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/503/7. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Allow me to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to the hearing. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear House, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate.
u2018-06-27-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 12-hour timeframe is divided into 248 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 112 minutes for the KDNP Group, 105 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 78 minutes for the MSZP Group, 61 minutes for the DK Group, 58 minutes for the LMP Group, 50 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. [[8.10]] Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a seven-minute time frame. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the representative of the ethnic minority of Hungary, who has been invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, will speak in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2018-06-27-2	Dear Parliament, In the general debate today, in a 40-minute time frame for the opening speech by the nationalist, the President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute time frame for the speech of the President of the Board of Budgets, the speakers of the political groups will be able to speak in a 30-minute time frame, in a 20-minute time frame, and then the speech of the first independent representative, within an eight-minute time frame, to the extent of the time frame of each faction. Proposals for amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame.
u2018-06-27-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the basis of the clear mandate of the Hungarian voters, the national government's objective remains to protect the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. The 2019 budget, which was submitted by the government to Parliament at the beginning of the summer year of the election, creates the conditions for Hungary's safe growth. During the drafting of the bill, we focused on maintaining safety, supporting families and childbearing, maintaining the growth rate of the economy and achieving full employment. These actions best serve the country's economic interests, the advancement of people and the improvement of their quality of life. At the same time, as in recent years, we continue to maintain a rigorous and disciplined fiscal policy. This will ensure that we achieve our targets, while further reducing the level of public debt, which, together with the continuous improvement of the debt structure, will further reduce the external vulnerability of our country. In drawing up the budget, we must also take into account the fact that there are processes in the world economy and in the euro area that could, where appropriate, turn into a crisis and thus adversely affect the Hungarian economy. Therefore, when planning the budget, we acted with greater caution than ever before. In 2019 the amount of both the general reserve and the security reserve for meeting the deficit target will be increased by one and a half times. Dear Parliament, One of the major challenges of the coming years is to create and strengthen security, both because of immigration and the resulting terrorist threat to Europe and because of adverse developments in the euro area and the world economy. In order to protect the Hungarian people and preserve their security, the national government will continue to defend our borders and preserve national sovereignty instead of promoting immigration. The result of the government's strong action is that Hungary is still among the safest countries in the world. In order to address the challenges arising from the external environment and to avoid financial risks, the government continues to pursue an economic and social policy that ensures stability and predictability in our country and enables the growth rate above the EU average to be maintained. Hungary's internationally recognised economic performance is the basis for providing more resources for the advancement of Hungarian families and support for childbearing in the next year, for the expansion of employment, for the creation of old age security, for the preservation of national identity, for the protection of our borders and, not least, for the development of the economy. For this, next year's budget will provide a secure framework. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2019 budget is therefore a budget for safe growth, based on the financial and economic policy results of recent years. Following the growth turn in 2013, the Hungarian economy has grown dynamically over the past four years at an average rate of 3.6 percent, including a high growth rate of 4 percent in 2017. The performance of the Hungarian economy exceeded the majority of the newly joined Member States and was also significantly above the EU average. As a result, our country's catch-up has accelerated, and we hope that it will continue in the coming years. At the same time, the sustainability of economic performance is indicated by the positive financial and economic processes, the budget deficit is at a persistently low level, while support for all sectors has increased substantially. [[8.20]] It is also an important fact that public debt declines every year, i.e., unlike economic expansion, it is not generated by excessive borrowing in the years before 2008. Let us recall that not only borrowing but also privatisation served what happened before 2008, yet it ended in economic bankruptcy. In addition, our primary goal is to further enforce the principle "work" instead of "aid." Dear House, Let me say a few words about employment policy results. By the end of 2017, the unemployment rate fell to 3.8 percent and the number of employees exceeded 4.4 million. Not so many people have worked in Hungary since the change of regime. Compared to 2010, 750,000 more people work in our country. Thanks to our economic achievements so far, the task ahead is to increase efficiency and competitiveness. These processes are linked to rising wages in addition to increasing economic performance. In this respect, it is also positive that real wages increased by 10.3 percent in 2017 thanks to dynamic wage growth and moderate inflation. It can already be seen that the two-digit increase in earnings will continue in 2018, as a result of which net real wages have been growing unbroken for 63 months. Higher actions have a positive impact on intra-country mobility and reduce the attractiveness of working abroad. Real wages are expected to rise in 2018 and 2019. One of the foundations of this was obviously that we signed an agreement with the social partners in November 2016; I will tell you about this later. This also stimulates the return from public employment to the open labour market, which facilitates the flow of labour reserves in the economy. In addition, the 9 percent corporate tax rate, which is the lowest in the European Union, contributed significantly to the development of more than HUF 8200 billion in Hungary in 2017. As a result, in an annual comparison, investment activity increased by 17 percent in 2017. Growth dynamics in investment will continue in 2018 and 2019, supported by HUF 4000 billion. That's all the budget you're about to receive. The strengthening of the economy is tangible, it can be experienced by everyone, as more money remains with the people, which is reflected in the growth of retail sales for nearly five years, in exactly 59 months. The key to maintaining progress, economic growth and financial stability is responsible and forward-looking conservative planning. Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account the challenges of the international environment, by 2019 the government plans a 4.1 percent gross domestic product expansion and a 1.8 percent deficit target with 2.7 percent inflation, which is also 0.6 percentage point lower than this year's deficit target. According to the government's calculations, the 1.7 percent structural balance reflects a structure that is about one and a half percent expected in the medium term, and that will be achieved by 2020. What I can tell you is that we are in short supply only for investment, otherwise the operation of the Hungarian state is null and void, i.e. revenues and expenses cover each other. The reduction in government debt by gross domestic product will continue next year and the debt ratio according to the EU methodology may decrease to 69,6 percent. May I remind you that this indicator was still above 80 percent in 2010, and now our debt levels are falling below 70 percent. In 2017, this indicator was 73.6 percent, and by the end of the election cycle and 2022 the government intends to reduce this debt level to below 60 percent. The security of this country is guaranteed, as I have already said, that the government is planning ahead of schedule. In 2019 the amount of both the general reserve and the security reserve elements linked to meeting the deficit target will increase by one and a half times compared to this year. The increased reserves ensure that adverse money market developments and real economic events do not affect the tax measures of 2019, the deficit and the reduction in debt. Stability is also strengthened by the fact that, as in recent years, the state, as I have said, operates in a null and void manner, ensures its operation by means of revenue received. In order to improve the deficit, the competitiveness of the economy and to maintain the potential for expansion, it is only linked to development and investment. In addition, in terms of the central budget subsystem, a number of policy areas will continue to have additional resources next year compared to previous years. The country will spend 156 billion forints more on education, on health, on public security and defence in 2019 than this year, if Parliament accepts it. With regard to the latter, I would like to say that the government has already taken a number of measures to protect the borders of the Hungarian people and the European Union in order to avoid the unprecedented wave of migration that reached Europe and Hungary in 2015. Since then, these steps have ensured that no person can enter the country uncontrolled. In addition to the sources of developments launched in 2019 to tackle mass immigration and anti-terrorist measures, a separate HUF 40 billion framework serves Hungary's security. It is also aimed at modernising the defence, so that by 2024 the budget resources for defence will be doubled in proportion to gross domestic product compared to 2018 and tripled in nominal terms, so that we can fulfil our NATO obligations. Dear House, In addition to ensuring the safety of the Hungarian people, the national government has already helped to improve the lives of families and encouraged children. This proven system will be further strengthened by next year's budget. The funding for support for families in 2019 exceeds HUF 2000 billion. Thanks to the 15 per cent personal income tax rate and the unique family tax system in Europe, some 1 million families now have more money compared to 2016. As the fourth step of increasing the family discount, the tax relief of families with two children increases to HUF 40,000 a month, giving a total discount of HUF 480 thousand a year. Otherwise, this measure will affect more than 350 000 families in Hungary. First-married couples can continue to expect tax relief to support their family formation, as well as to keep the children and children extra, while the government helps their parents to work easier by expanding their nursery seats, providing high-quality children's meals from nursery to school, as well as warm meals for children in need even during school holidays. In addition, families in need are also supported by the provision of free textbooks up to 1-9 grade students. It is beneficial not only for families, but also for everyone, that, from 2019 onwards, the VAT on all milk, like fresh milk, will be reduced to 5 per cent, while retail transfers will be exempt from the financial transaction fee up to HUF 20,000. Here I would remind you that, in recent years, the VAT on pork, chicken, fish, eggs and fresh milk has already fallen to 5%, which will now be expanded by extending the VAT rate to other dairy products. Measures to build a family-friendly Hungary and protect family values support the achievement of demographic objectives, contribute to the healthy development of the future generation, and also improve the quality of life of families. [[8.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to supporting families, Hungary's positive performance will also provide a basis for further improving the situation of people from work and encouraging job creation. As you know, the national government has set itself the goal of creating a work-based economy in 2010. Accordingly, the government has taken significant steps since 2010 and will take significant steps in 2019 to ensure that more people who work more can take more home. As I have already said, thanks to the six-year tax and wage agreement that entered into force last year, the key to corporate tax in Europe has fallen to one of the lowest levels, to 9 percent, while from 2017 the minimum wage has increased by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent. This year, the minimum wage increased by another 8 percent, while the guaranteed minimum wage increased by another 12 percent. The social contribution tax fell by a total of 7.5 percentage points in two steps, from 27 to 19.5%. The wage agreement will also help to reduce the tax burden in 2019, as at present the social contribution tax of 19.5 per cent may be reduced by another 2 percentage points depending on the evolution of real earnings. So our goal is to continue the six-year wage agreement and to reduce this rate to 17.5 percent next year. The government also considers it particularly important to strengthen the labour market position of pensioners, as well as the employment of pensioners. The aim is to facilitate the employment of older workers by not bearing social contributions and contributions from 2019 onwards, so this means that the pensioner's countryman who will want to work next year will only have to pay the salary, neither the employer nor any other public burden on him. The scheme will be similar to that of pensioners' cooperatives, by the way. Dear House, The government also pays particular attention to stimulating the growth and investment of companies. To this end, it will significantly increase the investment benefits from corporate tax from 2019. Companies can provide a tax-free development reserve for their future investments up to HUF 10 billion per year instead of HUF 500 million, while reducing the limits on the benefit that can be applied to investments in startup companies. In order to facilitate the growth of small businesses, the entry limit for small business tax increases from HUF 500 million to HUF 1 billion, and the taxpayer can remain subject to the tax until its revenues exceed HUF 3 billion. Simplifying and improving the transparency of the tax system is an important government objective in 2019. Accordingly, a new autonomous social contribution tax law will be put in place from 2019. The new legislation also covers income previously bearing a health contribution, so that this tax does not go away. At the same time, the tax benefits will be reconsidered. In addition to the health contribution, the cultural tax and the accident tax will be abolished, which will be abolished by the conversion of the insurance tax. In the future, the taxation of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance services will be carried out within the framework of the insurance tax and the rate of taxation will be reduced. Dear Parliament, Steps to increase the financial and moral appreciation of public service workers, career and wage management programmes, will continue. A new element is the career of municipal civil servants and government officials, to which the legislative background will be developed in the autumn. Next year's budget will allow wage increases for government officials depending on the government's decision, as well as the possibility of increasing salaries for municipal officials. In 2019, the salaries of soldiers and law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent, reaching an average increase of 50 percent compared to 2015. As part of the multi-stage wage increase launched in 2016, an additional 8 percent increase will be made from November 2019. The budget also covers the continuation of all measures already taken in previous years. The government also pays particular attention to the moral and financial appreciation of pensioners. Our aim is to ensure that pensioners receive as much of the above-average economic growth in the EU as possible. Therefore, according to the government's promise in 2010 it increased pensions by more than 26 percent on average between 2011 and 2017, whose purchasing power improved by around 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. If inflation were to exceed the pension increase achieved next year, pensioners could, of course, expect the difference to be balanced by the government, as has been the case in the past years; of course, this has not been the case in recent years, but an increase above real value. In addition, due to the expected economic performance, there is also every hope that there will be a possibility to pay a pension premium in 2019. The government also pays particular attention to the role of women in the family and therefore continues to provide women with a 40-year entitlement period with the possibility of receiving or covering retirement benefits below the age limit. Dear Parliament, For the 2014-2020 cycle, the government has set a more targeted and more effective use of the EU funds that our country rightly deserves. While the primary objective in 2018 was to make the total amount of EU funds committed and paid in a large proportion, in 2019 the focus will be on the implementation of these projects. From a budgetary point of view, the aim is to increase the progress of drawing EU funds from the European Commission in 2019. We plan to pay nearly HUF 2000 billion in total through grants using the resources of the Structural, Rural Development and Fisheries and other European Network Financing Facility, such as transport infrastructure development. In line with the decision already taken, 60% of the available funds will be spent on economic development, and there will be no change in this; it cannot be, since we have achieved that all applications have been launched, so everyone can be aware of the purposes for which we intend to use EU funds, and the primary direction of this remains economic development. This will significantly help the economy to grow by investing, increasing employment and increasing competitiveness. In addition, significant resources are available for the development of the health and social sector, for social inclusion programmes and for modernising public administration and public service infrastructure. In addition to grants, financial instruments that can be relocated several times already play a greater role than in the previous financial period. They can provide secure funding for business development in the long term. In addition, EU funds that do not appear in the domestic budget are worth mentioning, but in the form of agri-market and direct producer subsidies, they represent a source of 423 billion for Hungary in the countryside. Dear House, As I have already said, the most important task of the economic policy of the coming years is to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. This is a task that links the steps that we take, for example, in support of innovation, wage increases, the development of vocational training and, not least, in support of investment. This is linked to the fact that next year we will spend a significant amount of HUF 4000 billion on financing the development. [[8.40]] These include investments and programmes such as the development of Pest County, the industrial strategy support of the Irinyi Plan, the measures of the.0, the development of digital infrastructure, the implementation of investments in health care, the development of health care in the metropolitan and Pest county, the renovation, construction of several specialist clinics, hospital renovations, and support for investments in education. Dear House, Allow me to say a few sentences on the funding of municipalities. The central budgetary resources needed to finance municipalities will continue to be available next year, along the lines of principles that will, inter alia, support families and increase living standards. The central budgetary support system of local authorities will continue to be based on a task-based support system adapted to the tasks of the local government. As the six-year tax and wage agreement also affects municipalities, the government provides budgetary support for the payment of increased wages. The grants related to the increase in salary resulting from the increase in the minimum wage for 2017 and 2018 and the guaranteed minimum wage are included in the draft budget law for 2019. Support for rural settlements is essential for economic and social catching up, so in addition to EU funds, we are making more and more domestic resources available for development purposes. In the spirit of this, the government will continue to support the development of children's meals, dining rooms and cradles, mini-cradles and additional municipal tasks in 2019. The municipal care of children's meals also follows the already designated direction in 2019. The continued expansion of operational and development resources has brought the desired results, with an increasing number of advanced infrastructure kitchens providing healthy nutrition for children. Last year we provided a significant additional resource for the operation of the transforming nursery system, since from 2017 the intraday care of young children became mandatory in smaller settlements, if required. [[There's a sneeze.]] And that's true, cheers. [[Defiance.]] The structural reform of the institutional system will continue in 2019 to increase women's participation in the labour market. As a result, the new flexible provision of tasks is accompanied by a renewed funding system, thereby contributing to efficient operation. We think it's important. to increase the wages of workers in local authorities operating in small settlements, and we intend to motivate local authorities to do so. To this end, the budget includes a budget of HUF 11 billion to support the wage increase of civil servants in less-favoured municipalities by tender. All in all, municipalities can manage more than HUF 2750 billion in the following year without a loan source. For this, the central budget provides more than HUF 737 billion in support. Ladies and gentlemen, The management of the two financial bases of social security, the Pension and Health Insurance Fund, is an integral part of the 2019 budget. The budget of the Pension Insurance Fund will remain balanced next year. For the payment of the pension premium mentioned above, HUF 24,7 billion was earmarked as a provision in the Pension Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Fund also accounts for a balance between revenue and expenditure. Most of the Fund's revenues, almost 75% of its contributions, and the rest are budget contributions and other revenue. The Fund has two key expenditures: financial and health insurance benefits in kind. In cash benefits, the maximum amount is invalidity, rehabilitation benefits, and baby care and childcare premiums, as well as sickness benefits, are of a determining order of magnitude. The most important of the benefits in kind is the curative-preventive care. Compared to 2018, a reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax, taking into account the increase in the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage, will amount to HUF 69.4 billion. As a follow-up to health wage measures, the additional resource will cover an additional 8 per cent increase for health professionals from November 2019 as well as steps to improve the financing of general medical and dental care. The additional resources for 2019 will also allow the continuation of measures to improve health care for this year, the development of public health, the replacement, procurement and the inclusion of over-capacity of high-profile medicines and devices. In addition to the above, the 2019 budget allocated HUF 40 billion to support tasks related to the development of the health sector in order to increase the efficiency of the supply system and improve the sustainability of the financing system. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to compliance with the legal guarantees, the government sent the bill to the Fiscal Council for an opinion, and the State Audit Office also verified in detail the design documents and the completed budget plan. The Council may have declared the budget document credible, substantiated and enforceable. The opinions of the Budget Council and the State Audit Office confirm that Parliament can adopt a high-quality bill in all respects. Please allow me to express my thanks to the staff of both organisations for their work in monitoring and commenting on the bill. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the 2019 budget is rightly called the budget for safe growth. Next year, with disciplined farming, there will be more to support families, encourage childbearing, create jobs and keep the workforce, and preserve the real value of pensions, develop the economy, and, not least, protect the borders of our country. The government has created the source of economic growth, which has been going on since 2013, above the EU average, for measures and security to advance the Hungarian people. I therefore ask you to discuss and accept the bill on the 2019 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-4	Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your presentation. I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe.
u2018-06-27-5	Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Since 2016, the fourth central budget bill has been drafted in the spring session of the Parliament, and since 1990 the 29th, on which the State Audit Office has delivered its opinion, has complied with its legal obligation. The State Audit Office has prepared its opinion on the basis of the methodology applied since 2014. The focus of this methodology, if I want to sum up briefly, is on the soundness and feasibility of revenue, support for expenditure and compliance with legislation. This assessment of revenue and expenditure appropriations was selected on a materiality and risk basis, while ensuring that the total revenue and expenditure appropriations selected reach 80% of the total revenue and expenditure of the bill. [[8.50]] For the appropriations included in the draft law on the 2019 budget, the evaluation covered 87,2 per cent of the total revenue and 80,3 per cent of the total expenditure. On the basis of our methodology, we have examined the regularity of the drafting of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019, the compliance with the standards, the soundness and support of the planned appropriations in the planning of its revenue and expenditure appropriations, and the implementation of the government debt rules and other standards contained in the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. As a result of the joint evaluation of all these components, we are expressing an opinion on the merits of the draft budget law, while drawing attention to the identified risks and shortcomings so that they can be addressed effectively and in a timely manner. I think it is important to emphasise that in its opinion, the Court of Auditors declares a particular state of budgetary planning. The aim of our opinion is to contribute to the adoption by Parliament of a sound budget capable of dealing with realistic risks. In its opinion, the SAO also contributes to the transparency of budgetary processes and ensures this at an outstanding level in international comparison. According to the Open Budget Survey, published in February this year, 115 countries, the State Audit Office of Hungary is performing its tasks at a high level in terms of central budget control, even above the average level of developed countries. Dear Parliament, In the opinion of the State Audit Office, the draft law on the central budget for 2019 is well-founded, supporting the stability of the budget in the short and medium term and contributing to sustainable economic growth. The bill complies with the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and, with the exception of one requirement, with the legislation on the budget. The 2019 budget law proposal contributes to maintaining Hungary's budgetary stability and the sustainable whitening of the Hungarian economy. The State Audit Office found that in preparing the draft law on the central budget for 2019 the planning organisations acted in accordance with the legal and other internal requirements. The structure and content of the draft budget law are in line with the legislative requirements, thus meeting the requirement of responsible budgetary management. In order to ensure the transparency of the central budget and comparability of data, appropriations are also available by national operational and stockpiling and by Union development expenditure and revenue. In line with the convergence programme, by 2019 the government identified 4.1 percent economic growth in the draft budget law. This will be achieved by the planned expansion of household consumption expenditure of 4.8 per cent, gross fixed capital formation of 7.5 per cent and exports of 6.9 per cent. In addition, the government expects a 10.3% increase in gross wage and earnings, which has a significant impact on the revenue and expenditure side of the central budget. The bill on the central budget defines the lack of payment of the central subsystem at HUF 998.4 bn and at HUF 362.2 bn more favourable than in 2018, which consists of a planned deficit of HUF 402.1 bn and HUF 596.3 bn in the EU development budget, in addition to the planned zero budget. In 2019 the general government deficit will be 2.7 percent of GDP according to the bill. The deficit in the government sector represents 1.8 percent of the forecast value of gross domestic product, which represents an improvement of 0.6 percentage points compared to the planned deficit indicator for 2018, so there is about 25 percent better number of plans. This remains below the 3 per cent value laid down in the Economic Stability Act, thus complying with the legal requirements. Dear House, Yesterday we made public the opinion already quoted by the Minister and available on your table. We wanted to give you an extremely concise, coherent, transparent and relevant opinion, with which we support the groundwork of the debate, as well as the justification, feasibility and regularity of planning of this appropriation, and to draw attention to the risks. The following is a brief summary of these subjects. The revenue appropriations for the 2019 draft budget law are fully and 100% justified, 92.5 percent of the expenditure appropriations are justified, 7,49 percent of the expenditure appropriations are partly justified, and the remaining 0,01 percent is not justified. As I have already pointed out, the draft budget law meets the requirements for deficit and public debt rules with one exception. As in recent years, it has been stated this time that the structural balance of the government sector is less favourable than the medium-term deficit target of 1.5 per cent. However, this does not pose a risk to the enforceability of the budget. The audited direct revenues of the central budget are well-founded. Government support for economic growth and the continuation of fiscal measures to promote tax whitening are essential to meet dynamically increasing tax revenues. EU funds have been designed in accordance with the standards and internal rules of the organisation responsible for planning the chapter. The planned use of these resources is essential for determining the dynamics of economic growth and the rate of reimbursement is sensitive to the budget's cash flow balance. Investment appropriations included in the draft budget law have been properly planned. The planned investments have a positive impact on economic growth and the quality improvement of public tasks. In our opinion, the 2019 Budget Law proposal carries a total risk of HUF 119.4 billion. These are detailed in our report. However, the risks identified can be addressed by appropriate measures. Central reserve appropriations have been properly planned and the audited appropriations are sound. The planned expenditure allocation of the National Defence Fund was set at HUF 60 billion, equivalent to the 2018 allocation. For extraordinary government measures, the bill on the central budget for 2019 contains HUF 165 billion in expenditure. In the draft budget law for 2019, the system of maintenance and the level of reserves provide adequate security for dealing with unexpected situations, and the system of maintenance contributes greatly to the stability of Hungary's budgetary management. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. There is a significant increase in the budget bill for sectoral careers and wage measures. In addition to the continuation of wage-receiving programmes launched in previous years, HUF 51.9 billion is allocated to the new government official career programme. [[9.00]] Revenues and expenditure related to the debt service are well-founded, but there is no economic justification for this. The budget's direct expenditure has been properly planned, the audited expenditure appropriations have been supported and there is no risk. The revenue and expenditure appropriations related to State assets and to the National Employment Fund and the National Earth Fund are also well-founded. The financial funds for social security have been properly designed for audited revenue and expenditure, the revenue appropriations have been fully allocated and the expenditure appropriations have been justified, with the exception of the consolidated specialised supply. Support appropriations for local authorities are also justified. Dear Parliament, Hungary's draft budget law for 2019 is a budget for sustainable growth and sustainable whitening. The planned significant increase in tax revenues shows that the government expects GDP to increase by more than 4 per cent and further whitening of economic processes in the coming years. This shows clear stability, based on targeted and coordinated measures in recent years. It must be seen that the whitening of the economy supports the growth of the economy, and vice-versa, economic growth makes the process of whitening the economy sustainable, thereby increasing the willingness to pay taxes and strengthening tax discipline. The measures introduced in recent years to whiteen the economy, new procedures such as the online cash register system and the electronic road traffic control system, commonly known as the EKAER, will enter into force as of 1 July, a sharp version of the online invoicing system of the National Tax and Customs Office. With this system, we believe that large amounts of billing traffic will become visible and can be traced to the tax authority, so that VAT revenues can increase significantly and the Hungarian economy can become white again. There is a great responsibility for what and how we use increasing tax revenues. I am convinced that tax revenues from whitening should be used to further reduce taxes and contributions and to further measures for economic development. If the economy performs well, there are still additional tax revenues that can be reduced in the future. It's worth stopping here for a second. In recent years, the VAT rate of several products and services has decreased significantly in the case of VAT. Analyses and statements, however, found that, for example, prices did not decrease after VAT reductions of 27 per cent to 18 per cent in catering in the dining room, but increased, so that final consumers could not perceive the beneficial effect of the measure being taken as a result of this clearly strengthening the capacity of the entrepreneurial sector to bear costs - and, in the case of several products, the price reduction effect was only partially reflected in the price reduction. In this way, I can safely say that the reduction of turnover tax will not save the population in the long term, but will cause immediate and necessary loss to the state register. I am therefore still of the opinion that traffic-type taxes should not be substantially reduced but should be collected as effectively as possible. In the case of personal income tax, with already very low levels of 15 per cent, there is, at least in the European medium term, an opportunity for further reductions, on the basis of considerations. It is an important change compared to previous years that much fewer workers have been willing to work unannounced in recent years, i.e. a large part of the economy, from the service sector to the construction sector, is becoming legal and white. By further reducing taxes and contributions, the competitiveness of businesses will increase and more income will remain in working families. At the same time, it is at least as important to strengthen the Hungarian economy, to increase our competitiveness, that every single forint spent by the state must serve clear goals and be effective. I am convinced that fixing budget expenditure, i.e. assigning at least one performance indicator, is a key element of our competitiveness for each public money to be spent. Dear House, The stability of the budget is significantly affected by the activities of the tax office, and the State Audit Office regularly monitors the activities of the National Tax and Customs Office, in particular with regard to the various tax collection procedures. I can tell you that the work of the auditors was not in vain, and our findings have been used. In 2014, the organizational transformation and renewal of the approach of the tax office started, which, in mid-2017, established programmes for the operation and efficiency of the public office in the framework of the Strategic Renewal Programme of the NAV for the coming years. The trust-based customer communication, the paperless electronic personal income tax system, the electronic cash register system already mentioned and the EKAER are just a few examples that have significantly improved the efficiency of tax collection. With a trust-based tax system, the willingness to pay taxes is improving in a growing number of society. In turn, coordinating the growing tax morale with training and awareness-raising aimed at improving financial awareness can further enhance the predictability of the Hungarian economy, thus making the budget more secure. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary's economic cart is now making good progress, economic processes and data are more favourable year after year, which gives rise to confidence. However, there is no guarantee that there will be no new financial crisis in our region. Based on economic law and current global economic processes, it is quite certain that sooner or later we will have to face another economic challenge, perhaps a crisis. Therefore, the instruments of countercyclical economic policy must be consciously prepared for a worse period of time, for which the budget must also provide adequate coverage and responsiveness. In the opinion of the SAO, the draft budget law for 2019 contains elements that will help prepare for a future economic crisis. At the same time, the question arises whether we will be able to get through it without any restrictions. To do this, we need to achieve adequate competitiveness with stimulus packages, so that the growth of internal factors is not reduced. It is appropriate that we already have as many well-prepared investment plans as possible, which, in times of crisis, we could just sort of get them out of the drawer in order to ensure the sustainability of the economy. It cannot be emphasized enough that the most important is to increase efficiency, and that is what we need to focus on in the future. Encouraging the number of research and innovations will also contribute to this success. To this end, it is essential to further reduce bureaucracy, but it is still necessary to clarify and further analyse the areas in which the state should change or withdraw. I am convinced that in those areas of the economy where there is a healthy and sufficient supply of demand and demand even without a significant presence of the State, there is no longer a need for demand and supply overheating with the participation of the State. Moreover, it is not Hungarian that it is not really possible to see how to reduce state involvement in a world political situation where active, strong, capable states are needed for the safety of citizens, businesses and countries in general. Dear House, Finally, let me draw attention, as President of the State Audit Office, to the fact that there is an aspect of the management of public institutions that is far beyond the current annual budget. For all public bodies, so-called quality requirements are the effective and efficient use of public funds. At institutional level, the imposition and enforcement of these quality criteria will contribute to increasing the performance of their activities, which will have a positive impact on the sustainability of the budget and will make the country itself more dynamic. [[9.10]] As President of the State Audit Office, I myself feel a serious responsibility for the effective and efficient management of my management. Therefore, the implementation of the SAO's long-term conservation plan and sustainability programme has been set as the primary objective of the SAO's core values year after year. Accordingly, in recent years, the State Audit Office has implemented a number of measures to improve job security and reduce environmental pressures for resource efficient management. This is how a harmonised renewal of the data request system was carried out, with a primary focus on cutting red tape and developing a modern way of contact with the controllers and strengthening data protection and security. The financial impact of this is already reflected in the 2019 budget plan of the State Audit Office. The SAO reduced its expenditure in rem by HUF 100 million, which is about 10 percent, and gave up this amount in favour of the central budget. The State Audit Office, as an exemplary organisation, has continuously increased the effectiveness of its audit process since 2011. With nearly the same number of employees, it has tripled the number of people checked each year, and thanks to methodological innovations it is already able to assess several hundred of them at the same time. With the transition to the new reporting format, which makes our reports more transparent for you, important issues have been highlighted. In addition to risk-basedness, the concept of coverage has been included in the performance of the State Audit Office as a measure of effectiveness of the audit. Procedures have been included in the audit process which shorten the inspection time. With the change in the method of on-the-spot verification, the request for data significantly reduced our travel time loss. Diagnosis, methodological developments, methodism, application of the materiality approach resulting from the new report, focus on risks, shortening the path of documents have also reduced the need for accounting working time for the implementation of each task. Savings measures, digitisation and the resulting technological development provided cover for three areas. On the one hand, the task of the State Audit Office has been changed several times since the adoption of the SAO Act, for example, the tasks related to the elections in 18 for which no additional numbers and budgetary resources have been requested. On the other hand, new external capacities have been temporarily included in our savings for the control of new tasks, such as municipal companies. Thirdly, the savings achieved by rationalising operational processes have been spent on investment, in particular on IT investments, technological renewals, thereby supporting methodological change in work and efficiency gains. All of this has been incorporated into the Court's resource planning, become part of human policy and have brought about a change in the content of the posts. The combined effect of these can be freed up for the business labour market. The new job provision already requires other skills, knowledge and work culture, which entails changing the composition of the number of people, replacing the jobs by technological means. The implementation of a renewed IT environment is a continuous priority and will also be a fundamental requirement at the level of workers. There is a strong demand for fresh graduates, which has been part of social responsibility for us so far, is now becoming part of our human policy. In addition, about 60 experienced, well-trained economic professionals and employees are offered by the State Audit Office to reduce the shortage in the entrepreneurial labour market, especially in Budapest and the business sector. In order to achieve this, as a result of technological and methodological renewal, the State Audit Office offers cooperation and job support to around 10 percent of the workforce. This represents nearly HUF 450 million in budget resources without contributions on an annual basis for the future, depending on the outcome of the agreement. Dear House, Finally, repeating the most important message of today's expozem, during the opinion of the 2019 central budget bill, the State Audit Office concluded that next year's draft budget contributes to maintaining Hungary's budgetary stability and supports our country's sustainable and sustainable economic growth based on whitening. I wish you a meaningful professional debate for the next few days. I hope that the Court's opinion can contribute to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-27-6	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I now give the floor to President Árpád Kovács, member of the Fiscal Council, within a 30-minute timeframe.
u2018-06-27-7	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! I thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of the Fiscal Council, to fulfil once again my obligation to summarise and justify the Council's opinion on the draft budget law for 2019. The three-member body examined the bill and its macroeconomic background in its unity, analysed its revenue and expenditure in terms of balance requirements and the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule, and did not put into the classification of the distribution policy, or examined these steps solely in the context of the country's financial balance. Dear Parliament, The planning of the next year's budget will take into account the processes and experiences of previous years at all times and everywhere in the world. In line with this process, the Council also assessed the implementation of the 2017 Budget Act at the same time as the 2019 budget, while complying with its obligation under the Stability Act. It is safe to say that the 2019 budget is part of a process of several years of ascending careers, the first year of which was 2017. According to the Council, the Hungarian economy has reached a stable growth path in the medium term with a 4 percent expansion in 2017. The EU and domestic standards for the absence of public finances in terms of profit were met, and the Union methodology showed that the planned rate of GDP was below 2.4 per cent and 2 per cent. At the same time, the lack of payment of the central subsystem was significantly higher than that laid down in the Finance Act, mainly due to a high advance on EU revenues, but this did not jeopardise the achievement of the profit-based deficit target and the sovereign debt rule in the last year. By the end of 2017, as we have heard, the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased by 2.4 percentage points to 73,6 percent, meeting the conditions of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. Dear House, The Council also reviewed macroeconomic and general government developments in 2018, as a direct basis for the 2019 budget. This year's budget has been based on 4.3 percent growth, and the different prognosis estimates are around 4 percent. It is beneficial that 94 percent of the available EU funds were committed by mid-April 2018. With the projects implemented, the investment rate is already high in the second year and can be 21.5 per cent. In addition to the indication of the growing external risks that could affect growth, the Council underlined that employment growth is now nearly 4.5 million working and that the rise in earnings has a positive impact on budgetary revenue. [[9.20]] On this basis, the Fiscal Council considers that economic growth of over 4 per cent of government expectations can be achieved in 2018. However, the budget's cash flow deficit in the first quarter is high. At the same time, since in the balance covering the overall government sector with a profit margin, the Union subsidy advances and the VAT refund cannot be taken into account, the deficit target calculated according to the 2018 EU methodology of 2.4 per cent can be maintained. However, the structural deficit established in the Convergence Programme is 2.1 per cent of GDP, which is even higher than the medium-term objective under the Stability Act. I will go back to the latter in detail in the 2019 budget. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Turning to the 2019 budget, I must mention that there is no fundamental difference between the draft proposed by the Council and the bill tabled before you, so the opinion of the Council also applies to the bill before you, which is to be negotiated. On this occasion, the Fiscal Council also examined in particular the elements of the macro-economic path, which constitutes the fundamentals of the 2019 central budget. The budget is based on a 4.1 percent increase in GDP in line with the trend of previous years. This is based on an increase in household consumption volume of 3.9 per cent and in gross fixed capital consumption of 9.5 per cent. The investment share may remain close to the previous year, which is strongly affected by developments from EU and domestic sources, in addition to dynamically increasing lending activity and competitive investments. The number of employees continues to increase. We expect growth in the competition sector, but also a decline in the public sector. Gross average income increases by almost 9 percent on an annual basis as a result of tighter labour markets, compliance with the six-year wage agreement and career models. The achievement of the target growth can be supported by the introduction of measures to improve competitiveness and by improving labour productivity through the efforts of businesses to improve efficiency. The rate of increase in consumer prices can be close to the expected inflation rate in the medium term of 3%. The Council noted that the draft budget law would expect economic growth to be significantly higher than the forecast consensus for 2019. The various prognosiss are projected to increase GDP between 2.8 and 3.2 per cent, with a small difference. The risks to economic growth are mainly due to uncertainties in the international economic environment and, among the internal factors, the expected lack of actions and consumption could pose a threat to the full fulfilment of budgetary revenue appropriations. The planned expansion of the economy will therefore be achieved if external and internal factors are to be combined in a favourable manner. The redistribution rate will decrease to 2019, the share of government debt management will continue to decrease, while the share of economic aid remains high. The latter can bring a marked increase in the weight of educational, health, social and cultural expenditure in the welfare function in later years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council considered that the expected macro-economic path, wage and consumption growth needed to be achieved in order to meet the revenue appropriations of the central subsystem. The budget relies on an established tax structure in which the emphasis shifted from labour taxes to consumption and turnover taxes to encourage employment and economic growth. Significant progress has been made in recent years in improving tax collection efficiency, which has increased budget revenue and has purified market competition without increasing tax rates. These, as well as the reduction of the tax burden on small enterprises and large companies from 2017 onwards, contribute to the improvement of key macroeconomic indicators, while having a positive impact on revenues. The budget expects to continue the notified measures that have already started, such as the tax relief for two children. In line with the end-2016 wage agreement, the rate of social contribution tax may be further reduced by 2 percentage points in 2019 depending on the evolution of real earnings. The largest revenue in the central subsystem is generated from the general sales tax. The expected increase in consumption exceeds the consensual prognosis and the further shortening of the VAT refund deadline further reduces net cash flows. Consequently, it identified risks in the justification of the opinion of the Council for the fulfilment of the VAT forecast. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the opinion of the Council, the resources envisaged in the budget will enable the achievement of a number of emblematic social and economic objectives, taking into account the long-term sustainability of public finances. In order to build a family-friendly Hungary, the budget continues to encourage children and support families raising children. All these objectives are not only served by expenditure appropriations, but also by a number of family tax incentives. The continuation of the home creation programme will help improve the quality of life of families. The budget will also guarantee the safety of older people by preserving the value of pensions and by taking part in the budgetary revenue generated by the economic growth achieved. The bill takes into account the gradual budgetary impact of the steps taken to ensure the long-term financing of the pension system. In line with the commitments made against NATO in the interests of the security of the country, there will be significant resources to improve the operating conditions of the Hungarian Defence Forces and to protect the borders. Dear Parliament, The 2019 budget continues to target 60% of development resources to boost competitiveness. In 2019, the focus on the use of EU grants is on advance payments. The appropriations opened from above, i.e. which may be exceeded, guarantee funding this time, as well as making it available as the necessary HUF-backed budgetary resource. The implementation of operational programmes for the period 2014-2020 primarily serves sustainable economic growth, as well as projects financed from domestic funds. I would like to point out that a number of domestic funds can be used for welfare development, including health, education, church, faith and public service as well as youth and sport. Public interest expenditure may further decrease to 2.1 percent of GDP and the proportion of low-revenue assets will gradually increase within the public debt. At the same time, the emerging international financial turbulence slightly increases current market yields. If this trend persists, the appropriations entered in the planned budget may be exceeded. However, this risk does not exceed 0.1 per cent of GDP according to the current outlook. Dear Parliament, The Council concluded that the deficit target of 1,8 per cent of GDP, calculated in accordance with the Union methodology for 2019 in the budget, could be achieved taking into account reserves, by 0.6 percentage points compared to the forecast for 2018. The deficit target meets the Maastricht criterion and the same 3 per cent requirement laid down in the Stability Act. Based on experience, the Council found that such a reduction in the deficit in the case of economic activity did not discourage the economy, because private sector access to credit and capital market financing was easier. [[9.30]] The greatest risk to the deficit relates to the macroeconomic path and the feasibility of tax revenue appropriations. However, this will be reduced if, as mentioned above, the reduction in the rate of social contribution tax is postponed in the event of a slower rise in wages. In view of the risks listed above, in order to ensure the safe fulfilment of the budget deficit target, the Council considered the planned amount of the National Defence Fund necessary and agreed that it should be used if the criteria set out in the bill were met. According to the bill, the deficit in public finances amounts to 2.7 percent of GDP. This is still well above the EU methodology by 0.9 percentage points. A significant proportion of the difference is due to the continued increase in advance payments in the EU programmes than the need for regular support from the European Union. The trend can turn in later years, thereby accelerating the pace of the reduction of public debt-to-GDP ratio. The Council examined in particular the fulfilment of the structural deficit criterion of the European Union and this dormant requirement of the Stability Act. The latter requires that the balance of the government sector be determined in such a way as to be consistent with the achievement of the medium-term government deficit target, which is 1.5 per cent of GDP for Hungary. According to the budget, the structural balance differs from the medium-term target in 2019, as in 2017 and 2018. For the record, although it is approaching again in 2019, it is still 0.2 percentage points larger than that. I must tell you that the calculation of the balance of the government sector cleared of the effects and individual items of this economic cycle is surrounded by strong methodological debates, and not only in Hungary. In the case of our country, however, the one-off items, for example, have practically run out of state land sales. The government's own calculation of the budget bill shows a structural deficit of 1.7 per cent. However, the European Commission is expecting a significantly weaker balance, based on the fact that they believe that the Hungarian economy has been operating strongly above its potential level for many years now. There was also a difference in previous years and on this basis recommendations were made by the Union's authorities to improve this indicator. In its opinion, the Council also highlighted the need to achieve the structural balance undertaken as early as possible, but not detrimental to economic growth. The Council welcomed the continuation of the practice of separate operational, stockpiling and EU budgets in the central subsystem, with a zero operating balance and a deficit occurring only in the other two areas. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council noted that the planned nominal increase in government debt is in line with the projected cash flow deficit of the central budget, while the rate of growth is significantly below the planned rate of nominal GDP growth. As a result, the government debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced to such an extent that the reduction in the government debt ratio under the Stability Act is expected to meet the requirement of the Fundamental Law from 72.9 percent to 70 percent. In addition, the bill also complies with the EU requirement that the average debt ratio over 60 per cent of the three years should be reduced by one twenty per cent. In addition, the Council considered it beneficial that the foreign exchange ratio within the central budget debt would continue to decrease, as this would significantly contribute to the reduction of the country's external vulnerability. The Council's findings can therefore be summarised as reflecting the financial stability of the 2019 Budget Law proposal in the same way as in recent years. While the macroeconomic indicators taken into account in the planning are optimistic compared to the different projections, and the revenue planned accordingly carries a risk of achieving them, it believes that compliance with the sovereign debt rule is not at risk, and this is not the point if the scale of economic growth may be slightly more modest in 2019 than we hope. Dear Parliament, As I have already said, the Government has given a substantive response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. The budget reserve was increased to indicate the risks to the Council. The six-year wage agreement also provides for a delay in the further reduction of the social contribution tax rate in the event of possibly slower economic growth and less than expected wage increases. In response to the Council's call for attention in relation to the structural deficit, the government explained that in 2019 the derogation would be reduced to a minimum compared to its own commitment, to 0.2 percentage points of GDP, and to measures to enhance the growth potential of the economy, to continue wage increases, to reduce labour taxes, and to increase investment that justify this difference. I must add that this debate does not have a sanctioning effect on the structural balance in the Union. According to the government, after 2019 the structural balance will be better than 1.5 per cent to be achieved. The Council drew attention to the fact that the international financial tensions that are emerging slightly increase current market yields, and if this remains permanent, the planned debt service allocation could be overachieved, i.e. we must spend more on this. According to the government's response, the primary reason for the increase in yields is the spill-over effect of external factors. The risks in Hungary are no longer greater than in other countries that fulfil similar conditions, and since the 2019 budget is already counting on an increase in returns, their long-term development would not result in significant additional expenditure. The Government also indicated that the submitted version already reflects the budgetary impact of the planned amendment to the tax laws and that the budget contains resources to raise public and government officials' salaries. The reply highlighted that they did not change either the cash flow and profit-based ESA deficit or the planned government debt. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me to make a personal remark. It is a great honor for me to be able to contribute year after year to the opinion of a draft budget for a country moving on a rising track. When I think about this, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his colleagues in this approach for their far-reaching support for our work. [[9.40]] Thank you to the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the requested not a small number of analysts for supporting the broad basis of the Council's opinion through alternative macroeconomic, public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Thanking you for your attention, I wish you all good work in discussing the proposal of the 2019 Budget Act and the related amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the governing parties, the LMP and the Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-27-8	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, we must decide on a meeting matter. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliament are expected to participate in the debate during the negotiation of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019. The Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the House whether it agrees to allow Mr János Latorcai, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Mr István Jakab, Mr István Hiller and Vice-President Tamás Sneider to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the presentation. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, Lajos Szűcs, and first Erik Bánki, to whom I hereby give the floor.
u2018-06-27-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue where President Árpád Kovács has left off, and I would also like to congratulate Minister for Finance Mihály Varga and the entire apparatus for submitting such an excellent budget bill to the House, which shows that they have not only carefully considered all the measures which, as a continuation of the economic policy measures of the last eight years, confirm the growing Hungarian economy, which, thanks to its additional revenue, has been able to allocate more money year after year to the broad sections of Hungarian society and create better conditions for the livelihood of Hungarian people, but also ensure the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, which gives us the opportunity to achieve full employment in the next year, in terms of maintaining secure jobs and creating additional jobs. As my fellow Members can see, next year's budget, as Minister pointed out in his exposé, will be a budget for families and safe growth. When planning it, the government was primarily concerned with maintaining Hungary's security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment, meeting the expectations of voters. The last eight years, ladies and gentlemen, have been a number of achievements and hope for success. These goals have been achieved thanks to the joint work of the government and the Hungarian people. As a result, our country regained its previously lost economic self-determination and finally stabilised its financial position. In contrast to left-wing governments, Fidesz managed to manage the budget after 2010, which managed to maintain a persistently low deficit in public finances and even to reduce it continuously, to halt the increase in government debt and to reverse the negative developments caused by the governments of the MSZP and SZDSZ between 2002 and 2010. All this has been achieved by ensuring economic growth, not by borrowing from abroad, but by the continuous increase in the number of employees, low interest rates and reduced tax burdens. One of the biggest achievements of the past period is that wages have increased in Hungary to an unprecedented extent for many years, resulting in net average earnings rising by more than 40 percent compared to 2010. This has brought the long-term catch-up of payments to the Western European average. The positive developments show that wages will continue to increase in 2019 by approximately 10 percent, which will be above the EU average by 7 percent. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that during the MSZP and SZDSZ governments the levels of taxes and contributions have increased year after year, and even the 13th month salary and the 13th month pension have been taken away from the Hungarian people. At the same time, unemployment is also on a downward trend as it has now been reduced from 12 per cent in 2010 to 3.7 per cent. Today, 755 thousand more people work in Hungary than in 2010. Recall, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, when Viktor Orbán presented his Prime Minister's programme to the Hungarian Parliament and announced that the Hungarian government's determined intention to create one million new jobs in Hungary over ten years was a strong statement in the opposition's benches. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, recent years have shown that, as has always been the case, the government has meant what it has said and supported by its actions that it can achieve these goals: I must say that, thanks to the successful government policy of the last eight years, 755 thousand people can work today than in 2010. If you look at last year alone, the number of people employed in Hungary increased by 123 thousand in 2017. This means that if next year's economic growth, which is expected to be above 4 percent, is achieved and the economy can create new jobs at this rate, then, as I said in the introduction, full employment in Hungary will be available by 2019. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Sustainable growth will be at the heart of next year's budget, with strict and disciplined management in mind. The government expects a 4.1 percent increase in GDP in 2019, 2.7 percent inflation and 1.8 percent deficit in GDP. As in recent years, the State has a zero balance in terms of its operation, i.e. the State will manage with as much money as it has operating revenue. Next year's deficit will result from a further increase in development and investment levels, which, I think, can be fully accepted, as this will contribute to the further significant expansion of the Hungarian economy. Let us remember the times when this was quite different in Hungary. Before 2010, socialist governments ignored the increasing public debt, ignored the European Commission's recommendations and even wanted to base Hungary's development on foreign loans that seemed cheap at the time. The result of the economic policy of the Gyurcsány governments has had tragic consequences for Hungarian people: the population is heavily indebted in foreign currency, while foreign borrowings have also led to a significant increase in budget vulnerability and exposure. In this vulnerable situation, the global economic crisis reached our country in 2008, resulting in a significant increase in unemployment, wage increases, contributions and taxes increased, and, as I said, Hungarian people fell from 13th month's wages and pensions. The debt-to-GDP ratio exceeded 83% in 2010 and Hungary was virtually bankrupt. If it had not then been the IMF's loans and the European Commission's help, the Hungarian State would have been insolvent. What is the situation in Hungary now? As the President of the Fiscal Council indicated, the government's responsible management has managed to reduce the general government deficit to 72.9 percent this year, and by the end of 2019, thanks to the budget, this will be reduced to 70 percent thanks to disciplined management. If we maintain this trend, which is the government's determined goal and the Fidesz fraction of course supports the government - that the further reduction of public debt is achieved year after year in the light of economic performance, then by 2022 we can achieve a reduction of the general government deficit to 60% of GDP, i.e. the guidelines set out in the Fundamental Law can enter into force: from that point on, no government can plan the Hungarian budget to increase its public debt. [[9.50]] So the Hungarian people can go to a level of security that is also protected by the Fundamental Law. There will obviously be plenty of work to be done in order for the further development process to be maintained, but the budget for next year will provide an absolute framework for this. It is no coincidence that the Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing and developing economies in the European Union. In the last five years, ladies and gentlemen, there have been three years when the Hungarian economy has grown above 4 percent, and in the first quarter of this year GDP growth has been 4.7 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, which is of paramount importance. If we look at the main figures of the budget, we can see that next year it is planning HUF 4000 billion for investment and development. We have heard many times the opposition accusations and criticisms that the growth of the Hungarian economy is sustained by developments and investments made from European Union funds, which is obviously not true and is the same lying statement as many other accusations made here in Parliament regarding the economic policy of the government and the growth of the Hungarian economy. But look at the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. From next year's HUF 4000 billion, 2000 billion, which is development and investment from own budgetary resources, such as the continuation of the road construction programme, which is a solution for Hungary's small settlements and county-righted metropolises, such as the continuation of the programme "Modern Cities" or the continuation of infrastructure development programmes. The other major element is the HUF 2000 billion, which represents investments from EU funds and domestic sources. It is also a very strong leg of HUF 600 billion that is responsible for the domestic budget, and it is only HUF 1400 billion that can be achieved from European Union funds. So, if you look at the entire round of development, ladies and gentlemen, that HUF 4000 billion, then it is 35 percent, less than one third, that comes from EU support to Hungary, and two thirds will be provided by the domestic budget. So on this basis, I think that the development of the Hungarian economy is based solely on external resources, EU support, a huge mistake and a false lie. Next year's budget will continue to support families, strengthen the work-based economy and strengthen Hungary's external and internal security. The importance of families is demonstrated by the fact that the budget allocated more than HUF 242 billion to support home creation this year. Tax incentives for children will also continue to increase as promised earlier, where the government expects HUF 355 billion in total in 2019. Although wages have increased significantly over the last year, we have to admit that the civil servants' salary has not increased since 2008. However, the budget for safe growth also provides for the possibility of wage-setting for government officials and municipal workers. This is expected to be decided by the government in the autumn. In addition to the increase in salaries, in line with the practice of the last eight years, next year's budget will also ensure that pensions are of value. Since 2010, pensions have increased by more than 26 percent in Hungary and its purchasing power has increased by more than 10 percent. In this, as previously, the government has kept its promises, as it has paid a premium this year in light of the budget's performance, and the same is expected to happen to Hungarian pensioners in the following year. The second most important thing that can be expected from budgetary resources is security. The defence budget will increase by HUF 156 billion in 2019, and the government's determined goal is that the Fidesz faction naturally supports the fact that defence spending will continue to increase and double by 2020. Why is that necessary? This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because the security of Hungary, the security of Hungarian citizens, is a priority for the government. As opposed to the leaders of some Western European countries, we do not think that the migration process, immigration, helps the European and Hungarian economies, we think that we should rely primarily on domestic resources, on Hungarian people, when we think about creating jobs, stimulating and strengthening economic processes. In fact, we strongly believe that the whole migration process is a major risk factor which threatens the survival of Hungary, so we must continue to do everything we can to protect our external borders, not only Hungary, but also Europe, from migration processes. To that end, it is obvious that sacrifice must be made. We believe that the 2019 budget contains the resources that need to be provided for border protection. We also need to maintain Hungary's financial and economic stability in the year ahead, and we must also guarantee Hungary's safety by enforcing the will of the Hungarian people, as I said. I think that, when planning the budget, the Minister for Finance and his colleagues took full account of the fact that the four main pillars, which are to maintain security, economic growth, increase family support and full employment, could be fully achieved in Hungary in 2019. We believe that the budget submitted by the government is worthy of support. The Fidesz fraction is ready to make small clarifications with further amendments, but the main directions, the designated development goals, are fully acceptable to us, so the government can expect our group to support this budget proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs.
u2018-06-27-11	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. President of the Court of Auditors. President of the Fiscal Council! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up where my fellow Member has finished. The country where families live in safe, predictable conditions for growth has a future. This aspect was the guiding factor for the government when planning the budget, and if we remember, it was in 2010, when the government had to take over the country's government from the brink of bankruptcy. In that situation, we also considered that the tax reduction would be felt by families and that they would be able to move a little further every year. This was the purpose of the introduction of a family tax scheme, and the single-key personal income tax system, which does not punish work but encourages work and performance. We all know what a pregnant legacy we had to face in the field of economic policy in 2010. During the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, we managed to bring together a 9.3 percent deficit without a war or a financial crisis. Compared to the total national product, the government debt was 55,9 percent in 2002 and was raised to 85,9 percent in the first quarter of 2010. It is also worth seeing how our foreign exchange exposure has evolved since 2006. In 2004 it amounted to just HUF 2802 billion, until in March 2010 it was equivalent to HUF 9900 billion. It is proposed that next year the share of foreign exchange debt in debt is expected to decrease by 17 percent. The weak performance of socialist governments is only added to their progress in a prosperous economic period. It is difficult to find words that those who have pawned our future and left the next government to repay the IMF loan take the liberty of criticising this budget. In any case, it is a success that the current Cabinet has managed to reduce its debt behind its back with this legacy, we have not reached the fate of the Greeks, and we did not need to take any public austerity measures that we have already become accustomed to during socialist governments. We have only managed to achieve this with the joint work of all Hungarians in recent years. [[10.00]] In recent years, we have also broken off with the left-wing economic policy in which honest workers have been wronged and the beneficiaries of which could be tax optimizers. A lot can and has changed in a budget depending on the country's economic performance, but one thing cannot be questioned: that is to remove as much burden as possible from families and to leave as much money as possible. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We've come a very long way in the last eight years. Hungary has regained its economic self-determination, we have been removed from the excessive deficit procedure, and all of this has been and must continue to be fought against Brussels bureaucracy for our own right, the democracy in Brussels that has already submitted its budget proposal for 2021-27, and it is clear that the objectives can be drawn, that is to say, before the European Parliament elections next year they want to enforce their immigration aspects. Although there is now a debate on next year's budget, I feel that we cannot go behind this proposal without saying a word. As long as the Hungarian budget is about supporting families, strengthening border protection, i.e. the security of everyday life, Brussels will also set completely different goals and draw funds to achieve them. They are planning withdrawal in almost all areas, but for some strange reason, they do not want to reduce support for immigration and their own bureaucracy in Brussels. It seems that some countries in the European Union have already given up on border protection, because now they are talking only about border management. They intend to transfer EUR 35 billion from cohesion and social resources to integrate migrants already in Europe. We cannot support the proposal to take funds from European citizens for migrants. Let us also say openly that this Brussels proposal concerns precisely the countries of the Visegrád Four most disadvantaged, those who think differently about immigration. In addition, let us have another final thought on the EU budget: we also do not consider it a good thing that the proposal rewards those who have not maintained fiscal discipline for decades and are pursuing an unsustainable economic policy. It is really interesting that these renegade countries are being tried to reward them, while our country is constantly threatened with the withdrawal of financial resources, whereas Brussels also required financial discipline from the Hungarian government in the short years following the financial crisis, which we ourselves have retained. We could also say that this situation was fortunate, because we managed to achieve these economic growths in this counterwind. To return to the budget, we must say that we have always held to the fact that work is one of the most important elements of the dignity of human life. Like we always say, where there's work, there's everything. Our fellow opponents talk a lot about poverty and how to help them, but they forget that the most effective antidote against poverty is work and income from it. They have always spoken leniently about the public work programme and the work-based society itself, calling factories that make hundreds of thousands of people a living, where researchers and engineers who speak several languages work. Today, the figures clearly show that our efforts for a work-based society have not been in vain. Since 2010, unemployment has fallen from nearly 12 percent to 3.8 percent, and we can practically achieve full employment. Who would dare to remember that period and who else would think that we were talking about unemployment a few years ago, and now we are talking about a very difficult and serious effort for businesses to find new workers or retrain them even more. To this end, it is important to strengthen vocational training, which is also included in next year's budget proposal. The recent increase in employment has played a major role in reducing labour taxes, the job protection action plan, the government's targeted employment programmes and the growth rate in 2013. It is important to point out that Hungary has made more than 12 000 billion HUF development in the EU development cycle between 2014 and 2020, of which 60% has been spent directly on economic development, i.e. job creation, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and industrial development. I would like to note here that my fellow Member Erik Bánki has said the distribution of EU funds, but it is okay if it is said in this House every time that almost 80-85 percent of EU funds are added together by Hungarian taxpayers, so that when the EU funds are used by Hungary, it does not come to Hungary as a donation, but it comes back to Hungary through the sharing of VAT and other tax revenues through a central distribution system. So when many people think that the resources coming from the European Union really come from the European Union, it is good to know that 80-85 percent of them are paid from the performance of Hungarian taxpayers and the Hungarian economy. Indeed, Hungary is a net beneficiary of EU funds, but this is significantly less than what it is constantly talking about. In addition to EU funds, there is also funding to launch a number of investments from domestic budgetary sources. In particular, road development, support for large-scale investment, Irinyi Plan, tourism developments and the development of Pest County in a narrower Patria are also of particular importance. You know, when drawing EU funds, Budapest and Pest counties cannot receive as much resources as the rest of the country's county, and as a result, in recent years there has been a very serious competitive disadvantage for Budapest and Pest counties. The government recognised this, and in recent years it has already allocated a dedicated additional source in Pest County and Budapest, which I would like to thank the government for. This compensation is used in the same way as EU funds: 60% of it is spent on economic development, thus eliminating competitive disadvantages. It is also worth mentioning that it was announced at the end of last year, and the implementation of health developments in Budapest and Pest county will continue in the 2018 and 2019 budgets, with nearly HUF 700 billion, and besides three hospitals in Budapest, it will also renovate hospitals and clinics in Pest county. Dear fellow Members, You will hear a lot about the budget from our opposition fellow Members, although I would like to note that during the Commission debates, they always say that they want to argue, but this is not very visible from their presence. If they wanted to argue, more people would have come and listened to the lectures. [[10.10]] I think this also shows the irresponsible opposition attitude that is trying to form an opinion on a budget as if I wanted to allocate my neighbour's budget. I think we can say one thing about the 2019 budget: it will be a predictable, predictable and enforceable budget for Hungary. The fact that Parliament adopts this budget already in the first half of the year, although it was an election year, shows that it will strengthen predictability and planningability, as economic operators will be able to anticipate what they can expect next year. I believe that the 2019 central budget presented by the Government serves both economic growth, security and support for families in Hungary, and therefore, as my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, I would like to ask you to strengthen this budget with your amendments, and the House to discuss it and adopt it at the earliest possible time. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-27-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. The Jobbik Group indicated, Honourable Parliament, that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-13	Ladies and gentlemen, The budget before us is a budget for unsustainable economic and social processes. I'm going to explain why I'm saying this. First of all, the challenges of Hungarian society and economy are either not the real answers to the bill before us, or they are unsatisfactory in nature, and, where appropriate, they only provide symptomatic treatment for important and structural problems. What are the areas where the budget has bled out and is not satisfactory or simply non-existent? These are the issues of Hungarian demography, for example. It is a well-known fact that very few children are born in Hungary. It is also a well-known fact that between 500 and 600 thousand Hungarians work abroad. I note that in no small part, these people, even largely because of the government of the last 8 years, have migrated from Hungary and are seeking their prosperity elsewhere; this bill does not provide any answers to these questions. It also does not provide an answer to the serious problems of coexistence between Hungarian and Gypsy communities. There is significant under-schooling among Gypsies, and there is still a significant unemployment rate, and unfortunately, Roma communities are not involved in the value-creating processes of the economy as they might otherwise be. These are not the answers to this budget. It also does not change the fact that Hungary is in a dependent economic situation, depends on EU funds, depends on foreign investments, depends on the Hungarians working abroad's referrals. So our own freedom fight is not being fought by this budget, ladies and gentlemen, nor does it, of course, ensure that we have our own economy, our own industry. At the same time, it is important to mention, and I would like to mention this in detail, that one of the most important roles of the budget, perhaps in economic terms, is to have a countercyclical economic impact. The question is whether this is going to happen. Through the budget, the central bank has the opportunity to increase or reduce demand through its monetary policy, it has the opportunity to stimulate the economy in different ways, but this has not been achieved. Hungary, as the whole range of independent analysts have pointed out in recent years, is pushing the gas downhill, while there is economic activity all over Europe, the European economy is looking good and booming, the Hungarian government does not reserve, it does not pursue counter-cyclical economic policy, and we are currently seeing pro-cyclical economic policy practices. What are we looking at? Yesterday, for example, we discussed the social contribution tax, which has been converted into a tax by your government in recent years, starting in 2012. In the past, 100 percent of the contributions from this social contribution tax were used by the government for pension purposes. The budget laws provided for each year that this amount was to be cut in different ways, to be translated into pension expenditure, and to be channeled elsewhere. For example, there is virtually no reserve provision for this huge amount of money. The state does not reserve, although the essence of countercyclical economic policy would be that when the economy goes well, not only in Hungary, but also in Hungary, because Hungary has a business in Europe as well as in its target markets, the Hungarian State does not reserve anything, spends money, spends money on the market, and in practice we are not prepared for difficult times, we are not prepared to boost Hungary's economy from state resources in times of difficulty, and when the crisis, which you have mentioned, can alleviate the consequences of the crisis and smooth out the tides that the state is forced to suffer with the entire economy during a crisis. Although this part is not the subject of the budget, it is also that the extremely loose central bank policy, which is not only conducted by central banks in Hungary, but also throughout Europe, has enabled cheap money to be placed on the market, the euro area has spent helicopter money worth EUR 2500 billion on the market. In no small part, this is the result of the current state and uplifting phase of the European economy as a whole. I am very sad to see that the irresponsibleness of the Hungarian government has not been able to benefit permanently from this HUF 2500 billion expansion in the long term. In fact, you have spent this money continuously in recent years. In the same way as the social contribution tax did not provide a reserve for the payments, nor did they do so elsewhere, they lived up to that amount. Just to be able to see, ladies and gentlemen, how much we are talking about, when the ECB started its stimulus programme, it poured about 40 times the Hungarian budget on the European markets in order to boost these markets, and the economy could find itself after the economic crisis starting in 2008, but the government did nothing. The question is whether your government has an answer to what Hungary will do if, for example, the American market is turned upside down, as we have seen in the autumn of 2008. Will it be the same as before? Mr Lajos Szűcs spoke about the fact that there was no economic crisis in Hungary when the budget deficit was 9%. Yes, you can, ladies and gentlemen. It swept all over the world! Well, at least let's not deny it. He's got the whole world under his skin. The question is whether you are now doing something to ensure that if it starts not in Hungary, but abroad, either in the US or in the Chinese economy, about which more and more bad news can be read, fall in, or, where appropriate, its growth will decrease significantly, how will the Government of Hungary compensate for this. I fear that in this case, in order to reduce these signals, nothing will happen. What's the count? In such a case, tax revenues fall immediately, the government of all Member States will be obliged to take recovery economic policy measures in a matter of seconds, 6-7-8 or even more, and the European Union, as we have seen previously, will have to defend the national currency against various external attacks with interest increases. In short, the economic crisis that your leading politicians, at the head of Viktor Orbán, have mentioned so many times, will reach Hungary completely unprepared. We have seen, we know, that the economic crisis is happening legally, cyclically, back and forth. Hungary will not be avoided either, but the Hungarian government has done nothing to reduce this. The Hungarian National Bank has done nothing within the European Central Bank to understand the position of the Hungarian Government and to try to provide a lifeline to a non-euro area state, for example, has done nothing in the Council of Finance Ministers, nor has the Minister of Finance, Echofinon Varga Mihály, in order to represent Hungary's interests and try to reduce these economic problems at least. [[10.20]] It is important to see that not only did the government not provide for the creation of countercyclical economic policy in this bill, but it also did not ensure that Hungary's dependent economic status would be abolished. What do we depend on right now? What is this very strong exposure that the Hungarian economy is showing to the rest of the world? First of all, we must state that the economic freedom fight, ladies and gentlemen, must not be fought on the Soros posters with so-called Brussels: Brussels is a city anyway - this is not the way to fight freedom fight, but to make Hungary's economy stronger and resilient to its external effects. At present, Hungary's economy depends brutally on EU funding, if these cohesion funds did not reach Hungary from today to tomorrow, then the Hungarian economy would fall into recession very soon; not only could it not grow, but the performance of the economy would fall directly. It is important to see that, in addition to EU funds, foreign investments, which have been mentioned here before me, are also a strong foreign exposure to the Hungarian economy, since they are not Hungarian companies, but foreign companies. And, as a long series of studies have shown, a German or American company has a completely different attitude in the countries of its subsidiaries away from the parent company, when a difficult economic crisis occurs, a difficult period will come, as is the case in the mother country. There will be cuts, production cuts, in a country far away from the parent company, in a periphery like Hungary, much earlier than in the mother country. It is important to see that the independence of the Hungarian economy could not have been achieved in a small part, nor does the bill before us ensure that we not only realise income from work in Hungary, but also income from capital. Work income is when a Hungarian person goes somewhere, typically working in the employment of foreign companies or in the employment of a Hungarian company, so that a person realizes a job income, but we can realize little within the Hungarian economy. Of course, by capital income, I do not mean that some large businesses close to the government are primarily raising raisins from a public procurement market dominated by the state and achieving extra profit margins, but I mean that there is a need for independent companies operating on a purely market basis in order for the Hungarian economy to really prosper well. And here we have to stop and brake for a moment. At a time when the government talks about the strategic sector of the vehicle industry employing 175,000 people, it is important to ask why neither the budget bill before us or other policy proposals do not include an integration programme for this sector aimed at channeling Hungarian companies with higher added value production. Simply because the government has no focus on this issue, it does not take care that we have a Hungarian-owned economy, and one of the important lessons for the world is that those states are truly successful and indeed prosperity is raging where both labour and capital income are generated to a considerable extent. Unfortunately, this is not true for Hungary, as you know. It is important to see that investments with multiplier effect and the need to generate multiplier effects are constantly lacking in the government, yet the bill before us again does not contain similar ideas. I know, of course, that it is easier for businesses close to the government to build the Kelebian railway line at a direct cost of more than 750 billion forints, a railway line that avoids all industrial areas in Hungary, does not affect one, will never pay off, but some of the local government entrepreneurs will make a very good profit on it, but these investments are the ones that are increasingly critical of the European Union in relation to China's advance, and these are the ones that should be held back. We need investments that are able to create a permanent job in Hungary, they are able to make sure that Hungary is able to stand on its own feet in an economic sense, and depend not on EU funds, not on the investments of foreign companies arriving here, but on itself, on its own well-being and well-equipped companies. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-14	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát continues to present Jobbik's opinion. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-15	Mr President, Dear House, It can be seen that although the number of pro-government representatives is surprisingly large compared to their usual number in the Chamber, there are still two worlds fighting here, so the number of common points is very small in relation to the government side and the opposition. After all, as we have heard from the expozee, the fairy tale in Hungary seems to be realized: economic indicators are impressive according to the government's position. I'm forced to argue with that myself, not because I want to argue with you. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Ah, no...]] It is because the numbers that are in front of us are very stubborn, and I am open to disprove my statements by my fellow members of the government. This could not have happened at any time in the form of a substantive debate in this parliamentary term, since there is no meaningful debate and discussion at Parliament's meetings. The current draft budget, I can now say, comes before us without the acceptance of the closing accounts as usual, so without knowing the previous figures, the government plans for the next period, which clearly severely destroys the effectiveness of this planning. And I must also say that if we look at the amount of resources they intend to allocate to the area by sector, we can also conclude that structural, structural, future change is not included in this draft budget. So the biggest losers are clearly the young Hungarians and the Hungarian future. If we look at it by sector, the 15 billion in expenditure differences in education are even lower than the inflation increase, so it can be seen that the government preserves unsustainable conditions in education. In terms of health, we are experiencing some internal redeployment, but this is very, very far from changing health systems. So the legalized and paid health system in Hungary remains substantially what this government has left. But let's be fair, it is not only the responsibility of this government, but also the responsibility of those who have been called Balliberians, that Hungarian health care is where it is. However, we must say that this draft budget does not have any response in terms of catastrophic emigration data. The Secretary of State Tállai resolved this with a smile; well, instead of budget planning, meaningful work, he resolved it with the fact that he said that more people would return from abroad than the number of emigrants from Hungary. So he built a false reality within the government scene, and I have to say that it is quite amazing to strike reality in this way, because here in Parliament we should find common solutions to national fate issues, education, health care, but also emigration, regardless of party standing. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] There's no way to do that, compared to the countries in the region... Press a button, Congressman. Don't get all tangled up in the back row. So don't do this with so much... [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-16	Thank you very much. Stop! The thing is, I'm in charge of this meeting, courtesy of you. Thank you very much for your help, for the sound check, but the congressman is speaking. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-17	Thank you, Mr. President. I would stay away from criticism of the sitting, but obviously the opposition representative in the hangorcan is trying to defend himself, especially if the pro-government criticism of the low number of opponents here and their voices are not heard. Well, I'm gonna try to make my point. For a large majority of my pro-government colleagues who have not been involved in substantive debates in Parliament for weeks, this courage is at least a reason for optimism. I hope that my fellow Member will be as active in the debate as he is, not just in the pep talk. [[10.30]] At the same time, we have to say: not dealing with migration trends and telling lies that more people return home than people migrate from Hungary makes it impossible to develop meaningful discourses on this very important issue. At the same time, as regards the examination of the Hungarian wage level, we must say that the government prefers to promote itself with the real increase in real wages last year, otherwise real and actual. I am very pleased about this; I would be even more pleased if it were the result of a well-thought-out and successful government economic policy, a result of successful interventions. At the same time, we see that while wages were frozen in the public sector almost ten years ago, an existing ceiling was drawn over them, it can be said that wages and salaries are growing in the competitive sector where there is a shortage of labour. There is no effective government intervention behind wage increases, and I must say that where there is a shortage of labour, the future of the affected economic sectors is at least questionable. None of us can guarantee that, in ten years' time, companies that, let's say, find it difficult to find a workforce and employ the workforce more expensively than market conditions would justify, and I am happy about that from the point of view of Hungarian workers - will still make the same market decision in ten years' time. So I have to say, while we are at the point of being behind the so-called Slovak wage average by some 7.2 percent, and in Austria we can earn roughly twice as much, a little more than twice as much as in Hungary, it would be very difficult to talk about a substantial shift. Here, a substantial shift would require much more: a substantial reduction in contributions at entrepreneurial level, and a change in the government's attitude towards multi-enterprises, which is already reflected in the draft budget. It stands out that, with the unwarranted reduction of the corporate tax rate for multi-company companies, the government has effectively developed half-offshore relations in the Hungarian economy for multi-company companies, as well as stroking them with a number of other motivators, with infrastructure investments, job creation grants. We can also say that in their strategic contracts, however, it failed to conclude that the Hungarian wage level should at least slowly begin to approach the so-called Western average. Therefore, Jobbik, in addition to considering the renegotiation of strategic contracts to be indestructible, points out by the government that, in the course of these agreements, not only did the Hungarians not enforce their wage interests, but their own Prime Minister advertised Hungary abroad, for example in Saudi Arabia, by saying that the Code of Work was sufficiently flexible - and that the Hungarian wage level was rather low. Obviously, this intention to change does not go through this draft budget. We must also say that the housing crisis does not count on the draft budget. The government responds to this with the resources poured on the CSOK. Let me argue with that. I would like to argue that 40-45 thousand new-built apartments every year would require the transfer of real estate in order to turn around at least every 100 years, to replace the real estate stock in Hungary. It is clear from the figures that even the number of construction permits issued after the run-up of the CSOK is far below the required annual rate that would allow at least the 100-year exchange. Let's just think about, say, a hundred years for a panel house in Frog County. I also have to say that there would have been an EU resource to open up real estate development and modernisation programmes for the Hungarian population, but the government has made this narrower at its own request and made it available only in terms of the renovation and restructuring of public institutions. Nothing forced the Government of Hungary to do so. Just as there is nothing to prevent, according to Jobbik's proposal, extending the benefit weight of the CSOK to housing renovations that, let's say, result in at least one energy level higher in terms of the property concerned. There's no reason for that. If we put together only as many resources as the government supports its own propaganda and its own communication, so we are talking about billions more, tens of billions more, then we could achieve a measurable shift. It can also be seen that the government's income expectations, as I mentioned, do not increase dramatically in terms of corporate tax, but on the other hand, in terms of 27 percent world record VAT. This can also be seen from the fact that the expectations of all VAT revenues show an increase of around 11,6 percent, rising from the previous 3839 billion to 4286 billion. So, if there is such a difference of hundreds of billions, with which the government is trying to compensate for the corporate tax that is not paid by multinational companies, but if they are that good, then the question arises why the reduction of the tax on the world record, which is 27 percent VAT on the poor, has not come up. It was the governments that previously called the Balliberian that increased this key to 25 percent, but the government, the Fidesz-KDNP, did not immediately reduce this 25 percent to the original level after its entry into office in 2010, but instead decapitated it and increased it to 27 percent, thus putting the poorest people in the ranks very seriously. But if they no longer wish to move the 27 percent key down fully, it would be expected to reduce the total spectrum of basic foods to a 5% level. There is not even that much courage in the government, not even saying that we should reduce the VAT on dairy products to at least 5%, including only UHT and even one type of milk. So it's doing cosmetic intervention again, without any monitoring and with the existence of substitute products, so without looking at market processes. With regard to the VAT reduction of pigmeat, we have seen the results of this: VAT has been reduced in a cosmetic way, and consumer prices have finally increased, and the government has not intervened, has done nothing. We can also talk about what is missing from this budget. For example, the tens and hundreds of billions of financial transaction fees and other types of taxes paid by those involved, because what we see in the draft budget is the amount paid and passed on by Hungarian citizens. But I would very much like to see the result of the Hungarian National Bank being paid into the budget as a positive dividend. From this, I would very much like to propose an amendment to the establishment of a compensation fund, which could provide a substantial contribution to the credit victims in distress, those who have already been evicted, and bring some justice to the system that, surprisingly for me, the government has not spoken of in a budget debate or at the beginning. We must say that the government did not hide one of the pay tricks of the century in the tax package, not here, in the budget, but in a closely related way. This is about cutting the cafeteria system, where government intentions are clearly revealed: they are trying to maintain percentages of wage increases, they see that market processes do not support this, they will do even less in the future, so they touch a factor that adds to the salaries of many people. That doesn't belong to the strict basic wage. So if the cafeteria system is dismantled and they expect that employers will conclude an agreement with employees that will be somewhat incorporated into the basic wage later on, then it can be said that due to the mathematical increase in basic wages, you will be able to show a further percentage increase in wages without spending a forint on this whole system. That's why I'm talking about a trick, and by the way, it's a well-thought-out trick. Obviously, if we are talking about an average of HUF 88,000 per employee per year, if this is eliminated in the form of a cafeteria, if it is incorporated or added to the basic wage, then it is possible to talk about an annual percentage increase again. But this is not supported by market processes, it does not have a reserve, and thirdly this does not serve the future. If we are talking about the future, perhaps the biggest problem with this budget plan is not that the public debt will continue to increase by about a thousand billion per year under the Orbán government; I know that they will respond to this with a GDP-related indicator, and I would have the answers to that, and we will explain them in depth in the next stages of debate. But even if the sovereign debt rate is reduced at a modest rate, it is certain that it will not fall below 70% at the end of next year, and in 2010, a 60-percent guarantee was given by this government. It is okay that their promises are not fulfilled, or are not as bad as we would see at first. But at least once we would have seen you stand up and say that you did not succeed, that you would not necessarily have had to approach the problem in this way and try to listen to, where appropriate, the improving opposition amendments on this issue. [[10.40]] The biggest problem, however, is the demographic winter, a demographic disaster that this government has failed completely to overcome. I am very pleased and support this government in developing various forms of support for the birth of the second child, especially the third child. But they can give you whatever you want in the form of family tax incentives, you can see that if you can't do something about the emigration spiral. So if one in ten Hungarian women of childbearing age live, reside, operate abroad, then obviously they cannot expect domestic change. If they cannot solve the housing crisis, so young people can start their lives not only with a self-owned apartment, not only with a CSOK for people over 400,000 salaries, but also with a public housing programme and state aid, then the population indicators cannot turn around. The reference to fertility rates is simply unprofessional. I am very pleased with the increase from 1.2 to 1.54, but it should also be seen that while the number of women of childbearing age is constantly decreasing, the increase in fertility rates does not, unfortunately, result in an increase in live births. Compared to a similar period of the previous year, the number of live births has again decreased, my fellow Members. This should be the subject of a budgetary debate on how to improve these trends. Anything that points to improvement will support the Jobbik faction, but I think there are very few factors in this draft budget that would address this most important problem. I do not want to live on a reservation in Hungary in 60-80 years. I therefore believe that our most urgent task is to prevent a population disaster. We don't see any signs of that, at least mass in this budget. If they do show up, it will, as I said, support Jobbik. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr János Harghitai. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen, The first lead speaker of Jobbik, perhaps the second, said that there are two worlds fighting here when we are discussing this bill. While the other side sits in many factions, thinking of the opposition, I still think they represent a united world when they confront us. And in this unified world, Jobbik is included. I am thinking of their thinking, first of all, the Socialist Government, when they created budgets until 2010, perhaps it was typical that they were able to draw up resources behind them, obviously, I think, from abroad, from credit -, what will happen, and, in accordance with our own social policy goals, to distribute these resources. Christian Democratic budgetary thinking is not like that to obtain resources and to distribute these resources. I refer to Margaret Thatcher as the socialists always get the trouble of running out of other people's money. That's always true for this type of thinking. The budget policy that we have been representing since 2010 is not based on obtaining resources, but on producing our resources, on our own feet. Let us use some of the resources to work, to invest heavily in the future, and obviously to our own goals and social policy goals, it also takes place within a budget, naturally, a redistribution, as we think of it, primarily to support families. The Jobbik hasn't been on the government yet, but it represents the same thinking. Here you can express great criticisms with words, but what you do in your actions in everyday life is the same thinking that the socialist government has represented: get resources. From private people, through illicit party financing, and use them for your own purposes. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This is a budgetary debate.]] When the trouble is great, when they're caught, they're reclaiming resources from the electorate. There are voters who graciously support them I hear through the press; I don't know if that's true. But they've already spent these resources. And we'll get what we want. So this thinking is undoubtedly the same as that of the socialists. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that your united world on the other side represents the thinking that I have outlined here. We represent a completely different view of our fiscal policy. Not only in this budget that I will talk about, but this is the case for eight years since the second and third Orbán governments have always submitted their budgets. We have always represented this conservative, Christian-democratic fiscal policy, and there is a result. Even if the Jobbik questions that, the better-speakers question that. This result, by the way, is confirmed by the elections. There's been a recent announcement of results here. It seems to me that Jobbik hasn't noticed that yet. I think that, in addition to our election successes, there is basically and decisively the argument that our fiscal policy is successful. The vast majority of people think rationally and can show this during the elections. They are voting for us because we have exceeded the situation that we inherited from the socialists in 2010, and people also feel in their daily lives that it is a different country now. Because today we have come to the point where we are able to develop wages in all sectors of the economy or the economy is able to extract these wage developments. So when our voters, the voters, judge us, they judge our own performance, our collective achievement, as a way of giving us the opportunity to continue. This is the thinking that the opposition cannot put aside, or if it sets aside, it will always be wrong. I would like to warn the good congressmen. I don't know the others because they haven't spoken yet, they'll do it after me. It is worth looking back before we judge the draft budget that we have just submitted, what condition we have had to go beyond, because without this, without this condition being outlined, the law tabled cannot be interpreted. We are sitting on the tenth anniversary of that tragic event, ten years ago we were here in Parliament when we knew that the country was in bankruptcy, spoken or unspoken. Or at least we came to the state of pre-state bankruptcy sometime in the autumn of 2008. Ten years ago. At that time, the Socialist Government was able to eliminate this state failure by taking very cleverly, very quickly, EUR 20 billion of loans from international financial institutions, the IMF. The result was that the Hungarian electorate did not immediately feel the state failure. Pensions and public expenditure could continue to be paid. Then, of course, the Bajnai government took advantage of the need for correction, applied restrictions, and this is how we get to 2010 when the Orbán government takes over. What was it that described the conditions at that time, apart from the simple and very sad fact that the bankruptcy of the state had touched Hungary along with Greece? Here I note, let us look at where the Greeks are today and where Hungary is today, because the Orbán government has used a completely different economic policy than the international financial world has offered us. Any kind of attack that's been coming for us for ten years can be traced back here. These attacks are always on an ideological scale, on constitutional amendments, on Stop Soros and on anything very important, but the foundation of this is the whole other economic policy that Hungary has faced with the financial trend in the world, and it is hard to digest by the happy Western world, which is still organised differently today. We met the condition that, during the first Orbán government, we were able to reduce public debt, as a result of socialist governance, the public debt went above 80 per cent. It always appears in the House when we commend our results, a cross-check in Central and Eastern Europe And we often get the criticism that if we talk about results, we should look at our competitors in Central and Eastern Europe, and if we see even better numbers in terms of growth or any factor, we should be modest. [[10.50]] I accept this criticism, by the way, but I just add that our competitors in Central and Eastern Europe do not have to deal with such an unruly sovereign debt. Even in the socialist era, they did not carry with them such public debt as Hungary has always struggled with, and they were not as foolish as the Socialist Government, that they had raised this sovereign debt to the heavens. So every year, when Hungary prepares its budget, yes, it will continue to spend huge amounts on debt repayment for a reasonable period of time, but thanks to God, less and less in proportion to GDP. The only option we have is to slowly outgrow this sovereign debt with an ever-increasing GDP. The pregnant legacy of the past is so big that you can't think of anything else. Not only was the Hungarian state indebted, but also the municipalities, companies and individuals were indebted, so all the public finances were up to their necks in debt. Something had to be done about that. For this reason, the Orbán government had to deal primarily with a crisis in its second cycle of governance. This sovereign debt, which I am talking about, is a good part of it, and it was a major part of it in foreign currency, so the country was very vulnerable. Let us remember, here I am just referring to the bitter decisions that have been made about how we have tried to rid the various public finances of the trap in which they have only partially themselves, since they have received government and bank encouragement. I also accept the criticism that there are still people today, I refer primarily to individuals who could still wait and rightly expect help from us, but the basic part of the problem, I think, is that we have managed. Then what was the characteristic of the world in the field of employment that we had to overcome? I didn't have much work to do. Minister referenced in his expo, and even the Fidesz lead speakers pointed out that there were 750,000 more people employed than at the time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: in London!]] Then there were 750,000 less people working. In fact, some of those who worked did not pay taxes. We inherited a tax system built on collective lies. On the one hand, it did not encourage additional work, because the extra work was taxed, I am thinking of personal income tax, on the other hand, income was taken from the medium, high earners, and very low earners and the employees at the minimum wage lived exempt. That was the collective lie we built our tax policy on: pay the minimum wage, you don't have to pay, and give the rest to him. Now, that's the system we had to eliminate. Many times we still get criticism from the other side because we have exceeded this system. I've already told you that we've been working on loans without necks, we've been in debt. Obviously, we had to deal with this situation. The country did not have real resources, or at least our resources were very scarce. The main part of the banking system was owned abroad. The utilities and the energy sector were owned abroad. The media sector was owned abroad. There is no time to talk about it, but we have exceeded these conditions, and today we can account for the majority of Hungarian ownership in all sectors. I also mentioned the distorted tax structure when I said that it was built on a collective lie and did not encourage me to do any meaningful work, because the additional work was not estimated by the government through the tax structure. We have overcome this situation by dynamically reducing personal income tax, today with a uniform 15 percent key for those who do work. VAT yes, we always get the criticism of using the highest VAT rate in Europe. This is true that there is no overall rate of 27 per cent, but also taking into account how we reduced VAT in very important areas, this already nuances this image. Obviously, if we are to reduce taxes on wages, we also need to collect taxes in another area, creating room for manoeuvre in the budget. We continue to take the principle that it is better to tax consumption and to reduce taxes on wages. We have reduced corporate tax to 9 percent in Europe, unprecedentedly. So when I've written these eight years down for you, we appreciate it, and I've flashed our achievements there, I can tell you that we've started with a crisis management. They would remind you of the economic policy decisions described at the time as unorthodox by the Hungarian economic policy. Today, these are increasingly accepted in the world. Then there was a growth-enhancing phase, and now that we are discussing this budget, we can think about maintaining growth. Today we consider this to be natural, but it was a very bitter journey by the time we got here. We have the right to characterize this budget by saying that this is a budget for safe growth, and within this safe growth, the budget presented serves four objectives. I believe that the electorate has given us a clear mandate to do so, and I am thinking not only of economic security, but also of protecting the country, state borders and obviously of its economic policy aspects. The other aim is to maintain the growth already achieved. The third, and this consistently follows the last eight years, is the support of families, and the fourth is the pursuit of full employment. I note that this budget builds on security, one of the most important goals of all citizens, one of its most important indicators, one of its most important values when it comes to security - it also shows that the budget increases the level of significant reserves, as said in the Ministerial Expo, one-and-a-half times last year. Yes, because there are crisis phenomena in the world, because a commercial war has started between the United States and the rest of the world, and the Hungarian budget obviously has to respond to that. Conservative Christian Democratic budgetary thinking is when a budget is made with significant reserves. Is it an outcome when the Minister gives an account of the fact that, in the past period since 2013, we have been talking about a turnaround in growth, with an average increase of 3.6 per cent in Hungary? In the current budget, we calculate more than that, but this average, this 3.6 percent average, and I think that a welcome number is always more than the European average for growth. If we can keep these numbers, so that the country can grow at least around 4 percent over the next period, then the trend that the Orbán government has always been able to produce can continue. There is a catch-up between Hungary and the developed Western world. If we look at the period since the change of regime, then this catch-up and convergence does not necessarily prevail, it is certainly not going to work as much as we would like, but I would add that the fall occurred during the period of socialist governance, but during the period of conservative, Christian Democratic governance, there is a substantial catch-up, and the average increase of 3.6 percent reflects this. The Minister also made an important remark that we do not achieve this growth by taking out loans without necks. We don't even hire, we replace loans, we renew old bad loans with new loans. [[11.00]] We do not think about the growth of our loans in this budget year. So we have made a turn for growth by gradually reducing public debt. We hope that the government debt will fall below 70 percent in 2019, and even Minister had an optimistic estimate I hope we can hold on to that - that by the end of the cycle, so in four years' time, we can account for that debt falling below 60 percent. This is a very nice, ambitious goal, and we will obviously also fight to achieve it. Employment. We are now at an unemployment rate of 3.8 per cent and we have 4.4 million employees. We appreciate that this is 750 thousand more people than when the Prime Minister announced this programme. In ten years, he promised me a million extra jobs. I think that more or less will be achieved on a pro rata basis. Of course, employment can be described not only mechanically by millions and hundreds of thousands of people's employment; it is also important that these people who worked there should feel satisfied in that place. I think it is important here to mention the wage agreement concluded in 2016. In itself, the ability of a budget or the governance of a country to negotiate with its partners, employers, for many years in advance, implies trust. I believe that this trust in the current government is in place by employers, which is why they were able to conclude a wage agreement and obviously assume a kind of economic stability. For the long term, for several years, only those who trust each other can commit themselves or those who can commit themselves, and simply as a result of the economic policy that has been followed so far, are confident that what they agree on can be achieved. As a result, real wages have increased in recent years. Minister Varga said that net real wages have been growing for 63 months. This meant an increase of 10.3 percent in 2017. This will continue in 2018 and will be calculated in 2019 as well. Obviously, behind the relatively encouraging numbers of employment, there is a 9 percent corporate tax. Of course, at such a favourable corporate tax level, foreigners want to invest here. The increase in investment activity could lead to long-term economic growth in the country. We're spending 4,000 billion on development. Again, I am referring to the better-speaker when, as a criticism, we get how vulnerable we are to the European Union, when they say that our developments are largely based on EU funds. Obviously, if we are part of a European community, the European Union, where joint management is also taking place, is it natural to build on resources from abroad? , not even abroad - which can be obtained from Brussels. In 2019 we want to pay 2,000 billion to those who make these investments. But we are talking about 4,000 billion in total in 2019. It follows that half of the resources allocated to development are based on domestic resources of 2000 billion. I remember those budget periods where we couldn't dream of spending a naughty penny on development. Either there was a European Union resource to some extent, and it was developed, or if for some reason it had not been before, there were no domestic developments, because the Hungarian economy did not produce them, they were not there in the Hungarian budget. Retail sales are increasing. This is the surest sign that people have more money in their pockets, so they can consume more and spend more. I note here that in order to see this picture nuanced, because when we say that retail sales are growing, we should remember that of course it grows in Spar, Tesco and other large supermarket chains, but Baranya, Zala County and other small settlements in small villages' small shops do not feel this. So when the government will have the opportunity to think that we are not only enjoying the fact that retail sales are growing in general, we try to help retailers in some way where that is not true, because I say that this is true for the retail sector as a whole, but the numbers of Tesco, Spar, Lidl, Aldi and others cover up the not-so-welcome reality that is in Baranya's small settlements with regard to retail units there. I talked about the fact that, on average, the Hungarian economy has grown by 3.6 percent in recent years. In 2019 the government calculates a 4.1 percent increase in inflation of 2.7 percent and a 1.8 percent deficit target. It is important to note that for many years now we have been able to spend only what we have at our disposal on the operation of the Hungarian state. The only reason why we do not have a budget in total is because we accept this 1.8 percent deficit target for our long-term investments. So our shortage is only because we are thinking in the long run and we are investing in this surplus. For policy purposes, because we are clearly still expected to be able to provide additional resources in this context. Of course, it will be possible to say why not more, and if someone else were to govern, there would be more. But I consider it a result that the budget of 19 spends 15 billion more on education, on health care by 101 billion and on public security by 156 billion. I wish it could be saved, and I wish it could be taken in a different direction, but the world is like spending it on this. We are also expected to spend our defence expenditure on the basis of NATO commitments in line with 2 percent of GDP. Other types of thinking in the United States also indicate that President Trump has grown tired of NATO partners not spending enough on the army; but the difficult world along our borders from Baranya we can see this up close for decades. On the basis of our common sense, I say yes, we must spend it on soldiers, armies, border defenses, because we now live in a world like this. Therefore, I welcome these greater defence expenditures. I note that the electorate on this issue, because it was somewhere in the focus of the election campaign, made a decisive decision, and gave us encouragement to do so. Family policy. All our budgetary thinking has been focused for a long time. The Minister said that we are spending 2000 billion on family policy; it is likely that the most of the Member States of the European Union will be by far as GDP is concerned. It's an acceptable effort. We need to do this over many government cycles in order to achieve measurable results. Our family policy has a result right now. If we seriously believe that Hungary's future is not based on economic immigrants, because I believe that this path leads nowhere, then we can only build on ourselves, we need to spend more on family politics, and that is what we do when we develop crèches. Let me highlight the meal. It's always a central question of how many kids eat for free. Let us now record here for the world that this 2019 budget also has all the resources to provide free meals for all children in need, and obviously the free textbook supply programme can continue. I've already dealt with the six-year pay agreement. Here I am just suggesting that as a result, the social contribution tax will decrease by 2 percent in 2019 to 17.5 percent. They're career models. I had a sentence that it was important that the results of the Hungarian budget and economic policy should be reflected in the people as well. This is, in principle, clearly in wages. It is good that the wages of soldiers and law enforcement workers can increase by another 5 percent in 2019 and a further 8 percent increase is expected in some segments of health care. [[11.10]] I am talking about local governments and municipal civil servants; they really need the salary increase that this budget is targeting here, in addition to government officials. The technique that we will use is spent on this, as I see it, 11 billion, and in some kind of tendering system, this amount can be allocated to the less performing, more difficult local authorities. I would have preferred that something normative was in order, but it is also a solution to make payments finally move away from the level where they are and which is already worth exceeding. The opinion of the State Court of Auditors and the Budget Council has been addressed to the State Audit Office for 20 years only, what it says to us Members - it has never said such positive figures about the soundness of the budget, also in relation to the reality of revenue planning and expenditure planning. So I think that there is a budget in front of this House that is well founded, which continues the conservative economic policy thinking so far, so the Christian Democratic Group, along with the Fidesz people, thinks that it is highly suitable for negotiation, even with a good heart to support it, even for consideration to the opposition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was very exciting to hear Mr János Harghitai's speech and comment from Mr KDNP. I liked most of what he said at the end that he had never heard from the head of the State Audit Office such beautiful figures and statements about the budget as he has now. It is no coincidence that an ex-fidesz representative has been appointed head of the State Audit Office. [[Péter Cseresnyés: But it's been six years! Dr. Bence Rétvári: And who is your vice president?]] I'm sure that's one of your duties to highlight the good numbers. But you've had several comments about the last eight years, which again pretty much proves that you are building and living in such a virtual world and never seeing the other side of the medal. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] After all, my fellow Member from Harghita spoke of a reduction in public debt, while he did not mention that the sum of HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds had been stolen, half of it had been spent on debt cuts, and hundreds of billions of the other half had been lost hand-to-hand. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including Péter Cseresnyés: Why do you say stupid things?]] But we can see what these forints and these public funds have gone to, because my fellow Member has also highlighted how much happiness it is that Hungarian property has appeared in the Hungarian economy, in the media world, in the hotel industry. The problem, Congressman, is that we managed to obtain this from stolen taxpayers' money, because if, let's say, the richest gasman in the world would have created the money from his own work, from his own business, from which he would then increase the share of Hungarian ownership in the Hungarian economy, in Hungarian companies, then it probably wouldn't have been such a big problem, just the tapping of European Union money, the monopolisation of state orders, brought the success that I read just the other day that Lőrinc Mészáros was richer than the Queen of Britain. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] So I think that this performance would be appreciated if you could have produced it on your own, say, gas, but we know for a fact that there were a very serious hundred or even a thousand billion missing hand-to-hand. He also did not mention that while he presented employment figures about the beautiful numbers we can see there, but by the way, we have 600 thousand of our countrymen abroad, working abroad. There is a reference to how high the number of migrant children in schools, kindergartens in England and Germany is, but they do not add that a large part of this is a Hungarian citizen, so the child of an immigrant worker from Hungary. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Dr. János Harghitai: Only these are not tillers.]] On average, more children are born abroad than in Hungary. He mentioned VAT. They used to say that it was a tax on the poor. You have raised this brutally, and indeed you have made a reduction in VAT in certain product groups, but we do not see the effect of this, because the VAT on pork has been reduced, and then pork has become more expensive, and the product groups whose prices have increased despite the VAT reduction could be classified. He mentioned the conversion of taxes on labour income, but he did not mention that a significant reduction in capital incomes was also made. That's why it was read that first Lajos Simicska, your former chief friend, takes out billions of forints as dividends and pays the lower tax, and now you can hear what kind of money and dividends the Prime Minister's family members or former gas mechanics are taking out of their companies. It can be said that today in Hungary capital and labour income are taxed in the same way, which is not a picture of fair taxation. But on the whole, on the basis of all these comments, on the budget, my fellow Members, I will state our position. However, the budget is the legislation that is perhaps one of the most important in the whole legislative process of a country, since it sets out the operational framework for a year. It sets out the goals that a government considers important, defining the public roads, financing, and job provision that a government, a state, wants to spend on taxpayers' money in a given year. If we are looking at this, I have to say, on the whole, that this budget is an anti-future budget. You're stuck in the way you think about the past that you're consistently practicing, you're following a social philosophy that allows people with more money to have more. [[István Szilárd Németh: Whoever works more should have more.]] He who is less, as your former Chancellor said, is worth as much. So they get a lot less from the budget, much less from the distribution system than those who are better off anyway. After all, if we look at the key areas, which are still the backbone of public services, education, health, welfare benefits - then we have to establish that welfare benefits have been constantly paid less money or less money for these benefits than in previous years. But if we look at how much the budget is spent on education and health, then unfortunately, we have to find that, in terms of education, the amount of money to be spent on education would not have increased in proportion to GDP, but rather decreased next year compared to this year. [[Péter Cseresnyés: By the way, he grew.]] In spite of spending about 100 billion forints more on health care, unfortunately less will go to health care, while spending the same amount of money to build the Puskás Stadium. So it is quite amazing to think that, by the way, if you earn well, you should pay less tax; if you have children, you should get a greater tax allowance; if you have money and want to buy an apartment, let us help you with this institution called CSOK, because if you don't have money, you can't really buy an apartment. And of course, if you earn well, then take your child to foundation school, pay school, if he gets sick, then go to paying health care and spend that money there. And for those who don't get it, we're gonna dumb down the education system, we're gonna dumb down the schools. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You closed the schools.]] We're gonna bleed out the health care system that doesn't have a GP or a proper doctor anymore. We can see what the waiting lists are, what a tragic situation has developed in health care, and what they have in common; and what remains, you spend on government propaganda, you spend 50 percent more on it; you spend it on stadium building; you spend it on prestigious investments that can be very profitable for entrepreneurs close to you, and on the other hand, they can take advantage of their various hobbies or pleasures. Therefore, this budget is not building the future, because anyone who does not want to put any more into health care and does not want to put it in order is playing with our health, who destroys education and schools, is taking action against the future generation. That's why I'm saying this budget is against the future. [[11.20]] I would like to say a few sentences on the merits of the budget. This is where we heard the eulogy. Obviously, the leaders were there to praise the budget for a reason, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a growth forecast that the government is expecting. The legislation itself proposes a 4.1 percent increase, while both the OECD and the Hungarian National Bank expect much lower economic growth, 3.3 percent. The budget itself was made at a HUF 311 exchange rate, the draft itself, compared with HUF 325-326. Analysts do not rule out that this can go up to HUF 340. This fact may also cause problems, questioning the merits. Now they don't pay much for formalities in the Treasury Department. I would like to point out to my fellow Member from Harghita that while the 2018 budget approved a debt-to-GDP ratio of 69,5 per cent, this draft has a government debt of 70.3 per cent. But in order to comply with the legislation, it had to be included in the text section that the government debt was falling, while the figures did not exactly show this. Because of the criticisms I have mentioned, that this budget and its structure are going to be a past and anti-future budget, the MSZP-Palogue Fraction Association will present a comprehensive budget package. That's gonna be a lot of parts. We will propose a fiscal transfer based on social justice, solidarity. We propose that we have more access to health care, more access to education, more access to the social field, and more access to the development of Budapest, as we can hear what plans there are in Budapest, but we do not see the source of this in the budget. The budget for the capital does not answer problems that are incredibly burning. For example, the housing crisis. Today, not only can a young couple not only buy a flat in Budapest, but they can't pay the rent either, as rent rates in some areas of the city exceed the average income, so they are simply unable to manage it. We will also propose this in our budget package. We propose regrouping in education to raise the wages of teachers, support universities, programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities, because we believe that the planned increase of HUF 15 billion in funding is generally unacceptable. We propose regrouping in the area of health care to raise the wages of health care workers, the promised benefits of rescue workers, the development of hospital infrastructure, and a significant increase in drug support. We will propose that Budapest should not be treated as a place of new stadiums, but that investments be launched to meet the real needs of the capitals, in order to renew HÉV lines, railway stations, underpasses and Népliget. The funding of these is available in the next year's budget, because what Hungarian taxpayers want to devote to propaganda, nuclear power plants, public media, stadiums, prestige investments, we would all take it away and redirect it to the social goals for which it is likely that Hungarian taxpayers will be able to use the tax rate they pay each month in order to make use of such public services in the health, education and social field, as they do not pay the Hungarian taxpayers tax forints to the state that a good part of them disappears in the environment of their families, gas mechanics and other friends. I would ask you to consider our proposals, to take account of the fact that people in Hungary want a fair budget. I trust that this support will be given by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-27-22	Thank you very much. The further explanation of the opinions of the MSZP is from Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin with a few reactions. First of all, I would like to respond to the speech by Dr. Lajos Szűcs, who said that the opposition is irresponsible, because he constantly communicates that they want to argue, but they are not in Parliament, and that they will not argue then. I would like to warn Mr President that yesterday afternoon another very, very important law was debated in Parliament, which is closely linked to the 2019 budget. That was a tax dispute. Well, we didn't have a lot of pro-government representatives here to argue with the better Members, opposition representatives. In fact, the better Members made a suggestion that more than a hundred minutes of the remaining pro-government representatives, which they did not discuss, did not argue with us, with opposition representatives, would be handed over to us, because there would be more to talk about in relation to the amendment of tax laws. That didn't happen, did it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The proportions are determined by the voters!]] I think we can throw this back and forth, see how many Members of the government are going to be here this afternoon and tomorrow. We opposition representatives are trying to argue. My other response to Dr. János Hargitai: he mentioned how much help the VAT reduction was for Hungarian families. I do not know if the Member listened to László Domokos's speech. László Domokos specifically said that he did not achieve any results with the VAT reduction, and he essentially represents that this must be completed and not reduced by VAT, but that VAT should be collected. That's basically how it was said, and then you'll have to look at it in the minutes. VAT should not be reduced, but VAT should be collected in Hungary. Viktor Orbán, György Matolcsy, Mihály Varga, László Domokos, Árpád Kovács in all speeches we listen to Viktor Orbán start preparing the Hungarian people with his communication after the elections for restrictions in Hungary. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In particular, it has also been said today that there can be austerity because there is a crisis in the European Union and a crisis in the world. They're constantly preparing people for this. The budget contains this in essence, because it is not designed more than last year's budget with a penny for welfare expenditure and welfare expenditure. I missed one more thing from Mihály Varga's speech. Mihály Varga literally said that it was careful planning, because because of the threat of crisis, the budget for 2019 had to be carefully planned. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's not what he said.]] That's what Michael Varga said in his speech. I'm sorry. That's what you can argue about. [[István Szilárd Németh: He said it was safe!]] I say, György Matolcsy, Mihály Varga, László Domokos, Árpád Kovács and Viktor Orbán talk about it all the time. But the only thing I really missed was talking about family support. After the elections, Viktor Orbán spoke about his desire to conclude a long-term agreement with Hungarian women, precisely because of what we opposition representatives have repeatedly said, that there is a demographic crisis, the Fidesz-KDNP government has not been able to deal with the demographic crisis in the last eight years. There are not many signs of this long-term agreement in the budget for next year. Mihály Varga emphasized only one thing: that the Women 40, the help of retirement, will be kept in next year's budget. There are no specific examples of what would be a very close agreement on the part of the government to encourage an increase in child births. [[11.30]] Now, let's get into the details. With regard to the 2009 central budget... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs:, 19! .19!]] In particular, it should be noted in relation to the 2019 budget [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] that it is once again a budget... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs:, 19!]] You can speak up, Congressman, okay? [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: I spoke up! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is once again a budget based on non-real figures and indicators already achieved. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: The 2009 was like this!]] We have been adopting the budget for years without discussing the previous year's accounts, we do not see the indicators, we do not know what has happened, and we do not know, for many years now, that the budget will not be presented to the House in autumn, but in spring. At the moment, I can say once again that the precise implementation of the 2018 central budget is not yet known, and I have to say here that if we look at last year's budget, we can see that knowing that they kept communicating that the 2018 budget will not be an election budget or a 19th budget, it has been communicated continuously, and we have seen that at the end of the year hundreds of billions of forints were distributed by the government without being published in the budget in 2018. Well, we suspect that the 19th budget for 2019 will also be the same, that we will be negotiating numbers now, seeing numbers, and then, when it turns out that in 2019, we know that there will be elections and elections in the European Union, then at the end of the year, we will be faced with the government starting to spend insanely, because they want to win these elections. This, like the previous years, is once again a Bianco budget in which the government makes all kinds of promises that it will or will not keep. For example, a promise of a more serious wage increase for approximately 200,000 people working in the public sector, with a rate of 25-30 percent, but this can only be the case in the autumn. It is important to note here that the last wage increase in this sector was in 2008. Minister of Finance Mihály Varga also predicted that there would also be a special amendment to the law, which would completely eliminate all public costs for the employment of pensioners. With this anticipated measure, the retirement social cooperative form linked to Lajos Kósa and his associates appears to fail. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You are not going to fail, you are talking nonsense! Two separate forms of employment! They don't know how to do that. That's why they say stupid things.]] It has to be said here, I told you yesterday that when the retirement social cooperative form was created, Lajos Kósa said that I would facilitate the return of about 800 thousand pensioners to work with the establishment of the social cooperative. From the current figures, we know that about 7,000 pensioners were able to return to the labour market. It is also expected that employment barriers for pensioners will be removed, mainly due to increasing labour shortages. According to the current rules, if a pensioner is looking for a minimum wage of 12 times the minimum wage, he has to give up his pension. This regulation can be abolished by the government next year. Meanwhile, the government doesn't really care about people over the age of 50. [[Peter Cseresnyés: It's not true!]] We also told the tax law yesterday that about half of those over 50 are unemployed in Hungary today, and the government is not doing much to solve this problem, and in recent years we have seen that it has not dealt with this problem. Today, the 50-55-year-olds are the most difficult to find in the labour market, they have been abandoned by everyone, especially the Orbán government. The government promises that next year a new social contribution tax law will be drawn up, including a health contribution. This tax is not likely to be abolished, in order to simplify the tax system. It is clear that the majority of Fidesz will once again adopt a budget that will need to be amended several times before its entry into force. In my remaining time, I'd like to talk about welfare expenses and share some thoughts with you. According to the explanatory statement, the 2019 budget presented by the government was a budget for safe growth, with the national government planning to preserve Hungary's security, maintain economic growth, support for families and achieve full employment. Compared to this, the social area will be reduced again next year. Every year, we stand up and say this, ladies and gentlemen, that since your government, every year there has been less planning for social and welfare expenditure. Next year, the government will expect a 4.1 percent increase in GDP, but the welfare functions will again be reduced on the basis of the table on consolidated functional expenditure of public finances, this year's 26.03 percent draft, and then 25.78 percent of GDP-related expenditure based on the agreed figures, less than 25.19 percent for education, health, pension expenditure, social benefits, family benefits, unemployment benefits, culture and housing next year. When you talk about the importance of supporting Hungarian families, we do not see this in the 2019 budget on the basis of the figures. In terms of the distribution of public expenditure, 55.4 percent of the total expenditure is still allocated to welfare functions. As the state's operational function grows again, we stand up every year and we tell them that they spend more and more on themselves, on the maintenance of the state. Here I can point out that the Orbán government has appointed more than 60 State Secretarys at the beginning of the 2018 cycle, and we will see where this ends. If we go into the figures here, we can see a nominal decrease of more than HUF 62 billion in the other educational functions within the education. The reduction in public health tasks is noticeable in the health sector. Several speakers said that the government spends about HUF 15 billion more than education in 2019 and spends a minimum of HUF 100 billion more than health care in the 2019 budget, but here it has to be said that the HUF 100 billion increase in healthcare will be just enough to put out fire. We keep seeing that the government is constantly pumping billions of dollars to deal with the debt that hospitals are constantly piling up without their own faults, but it regenerates every year. We are talking about 60-70 billion forints, the increase of 100 billion forints is actually good for creating a partial one, so to speak, but we can't really expect an improvement according to the 2019 budget. A few thoughts about family support. We keep saying and submitting amendments to increase the amount of family allowance, child, child, maternity allowance. The last increase in the family allowance was made in 2008. Family allowance is the amount that doesn't depend on who makes what, but is specifically the benefit of the child. Whether it's... [[György Balla intervenes.]] Family tax breaks require work, and hopefully a family should have an income that can be used. Today, more than 50 percent of the more than 4 million workers in Hungary are registered at the minimum wage. I don't know if you think that's okay, that it's working perfectly. Mr Harghitai said in his speech that the governments before 2010 did not work to prevent workers from getting their wages in their pockets. More than half of the employees are declared at minimum wage in Hungary today, which means that... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Which has doubled! Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] Gross, Congressman, gross! [[Péter Cseresnyés: Net has grown even more!]] Yesterday, too, I said how much is gross, how much is net, and they keep saying that it was wrong that the minimum wage was tax-free for governments before 2010. I think that you should lead back to the fact that the minimum wage, the assistance of families with the lowest income, which is more than 2 million people, should be tax-free again and, above all, give new benefits, and that the government should pursue a tax policy that is worth paying more to entrepreneurs, report more to the state than at the minimum wage, and I say to my fellow Member that today, too, workers are still being paid in large amounts. You can tell from the numbers, because there's no such thing as more than 2 million people making a minimum wage. [[11.40]] The amount of appropriations, presumably according to the decreasing number of children, has never been reduced to this extent by the amount planned for the family allowance in the budget table. Now we're talking about 5 billion forints compared to last year. This is also because the government plans to know this too - that because of the failure of its family policy, fewer children are born every year in Hungary, and the main reason why they are planning the most important family allowance of HUF 5 billion now is because it appears from the figures again that your latest KSH came out exactly yesterday, compared to last year, that we are at 1.7 percent, that 1.7 percent fewer children have been born in recent months compared to last year, and unfortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP policy has not been able to stop the decrease in child birth in recent years. I must add that Hungarian children are born, but not in Hungary. One in six Hungarian children see the light of day abroad. We can talk about the fact that in England, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, the countries of Europe... which should be welcomed, because I know that the answer will be that this is one of the successes of the European Union, the borders have been opened, the citizens of the European Union go where they want to go, and it is very good for us. Just fellow Members, you do not talk about many crises. They don't talk about a demographic crisis. [[Peter Cseresnyés: What you caused!]] they don't talk about the crisis in education, they don't talk about the crisis in health care, they don't talk about the crisis in families, but we keep hearing speeches where, quoting speakers before me, they give us a picture of fairy tales and fairy tales here, and while Hungarian reality is long ago not this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-27-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We now have the opinion of the Group of the Democratic Coalition, with the voice of Mr László Varju, the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of the debate, several people called for a real debate on this budget here in Parliament. I think it's starting to happen. I would like to contribute to this, too, by setting the other half of the framework by saying that this budget is unpredictable, uncertainty, a budget of tumultuousness, all of which will cause damage in many respects, or the loss of opportunities for families and businesses. Therefore, overall, if I have to define it in one word, I would say that this is a GPS budget, and by the end of which it must be said that . redesign, ladies and gentlemen. With a few thoughts, I would like to prove this to you in detail, because I see that this is necessary, and now the opportunity is given. The adoption of the budget in the summer of the previous year, the fact that we are dealing with it now, does not increase predictability. The Government justifies the submission and adoption of the budget months earlier than usual internationally, by increasing predictability. This was done for the first time in 2012 in the last eight years. It would indeed be necessary to increase predictability, but experience shows that this would require a different kind of action, not time. After all, the government regularly uses outside interference, opaque opportunities, freezing of expenses, redeployment, tax increases during the year, and what you say about this is very low credibility. The budget adopted in spring is often subject to changes in circumstances or even changes in economic policy intentions. This is also the case for you in 2017, but due to the six-year wage agreement concluded in December 2016, there would also have been a need for significant changes due to the consequences thereof, so budget planning in this form is frivolous. Unlike earlier, the 2018 Budget Act adopted in spring 2017 was not amended, but this year's budget should actually have been redesigned. You have not dealt with this either, because there are so many differences behind the figures, and that is why you are not presenting this factually in the budget debate, because the closing report on 2016 is the only factual document in our possession. The European Union has repeatedly resented the high deficit. By the end of May this year, the Hungarian government was warned precisely and officially that the structural deficit was significantly and increasingly different from the medium-term objective. That's part of what I was just talking about. A similar warning was given to Romania, by the way. Obviously, the government is hiding the growing deficit from overspending on elections and from these considerations, and does not want to deal with it. But despite the sound of opposition from the European Union, I think that you are going to be under pressure this year, and that is why the signs of the crisis and these sentences are coming out. The process of amending budgetary processes in line with the silent correction of Parliament is expected to continue. This makes it possible that, in essence, you, the government, have removed the budgetary process itself from Parliament's scope, and, by the way, you treat it as a private register and act accordingly. We are not talking about a public monthly update of annual runs, which we had years ago, which is why we also see that budget commitments may not be provided for by laws and, if necessary, by regulations. In particular, spending in December 2016 resulted in a larger deficit over a single month than in the whole year. This was to the extent that Parliament could not have been left out. Moreover, it cannot be established how consciously these processes are, how much planning errors are caused, but the lack of transparency of public finances is a reflection of the open conflicts of interest and improvisations that ignore impact assessments that serve economic policy lobbying interests. So it's obvious that this is what you call predictability, and what's happening is the exact opposite. That is why I think it would be worth considering and acting differently for you. You have ignored the budgetary framework, and I have just mentioned this, and I would like to emphasise this again, because it is in the interest not only of the European Union, but of allied partners, and especially of the Hungarian people, that the essence of the planning mechanism, which has been intended to apply since 2013, is that the government must justify the differences between medium-term plans and subsequent draft budgets with factors and processes that are outside the scope of the government. The objective is clear: strategic planning, making prognosis for later years more robust. In Hungary, the first medium-term plan was developed only in 2015. For a period of two years, the expenditures and revenue plans of the budget headings have been specified in detail. Therefore, the 2016 spring presentation of the 2017 budget was a test of the system, and its failure is characterised by a drastic increase in household consumption expenditure as a result of that wage agreement, which is a result of an explicit government decision rather than by events outside the scope. As far as the 2018 processes are concerned, the May 2017 Budget Bill raised the general government deficit to 2.4 per cent of GDP from 1.8 per cent previously projected, while forecasting faster growth than previously calculated; therefore, it is clearly not due to external circumstances but to short-term policy considerations this year. [[11.50]] If these facts are taken into account, however, the main macro-numbers of the 2019 Budget Law proposal have not changed compared to those in the 2018 proposal. In this case, however, the amendment would have been justified, since the GDP growth estimated at 4.1 per cent was also considered by the Fiscal Council to be in excess of the national consensus just a few hours ago. The lack of change is also remarkable because, at the same time as the bill, the government suddenly started talking about the threat of a global economic crisis, which would have justified a reduction in growth forecasts within the logic of the fiscal framework. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] In practice, therefore, the budgetary framework does not have any impact on the long-termisation of the Hungarian budget and economic policy in general, despite the fact that the President of the State Audit Office is looking for this in this budget, he will not find this. In addition to the downsides, one thing must be acknowledged, and this is that the general government deficit in 2019 will be below 3 per cent in the eighth year, to which, if we could touch the declining path, it would otherwise be a result, but safe access to EU funds was also an essential condition. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, described this as a lie, while it is a clear fact that, without EU funding, the anti-growth tax structure that you have put forward before, or the lack of transparency of this budget in this form, is certainly a disadvantage. In order to improve the balance, the impact of EU grants replacing and generating revenue has played a major role, and the analysis of the use of 2007-2015 shows without resources that this would not have been possible without this and that Hungary would have been subject to an excessive deficit procedure. There has been a major contribution to the improvement of the various special budgetary solutions, such as the conversion of private pension funds contributions, which you have hardly mentioned, into continuous budgetary revenue in recent years, and further elements; we could also include growth tax credits. However, the creative solution here is that the government had the burden of electoral economic policy paid by companies to a large extent before 2018 in the same way as before 2014, by means of a tax burden on forced wage increases. The downside of these techniques is particularly long-lasting: it leads to a deterioration of the ability of corporate profits, competitiveness and thus economic growth. Hungarian fiscal policy shows pro-cyclical operation in 2017 and 2018 for electoral reasons. While the European Union does not impose sanctions to meet this objective, as I have referred to the strategic framework here, a lower deficit during the recovery period, and a higher deficit at the time of recovery, would be an economic prerequisite for countercyclical economic policy if it were to be observed, but you do not want to comply with it. Otherwise, under the circumstances of the deteriorating economic activity, it will not be possible to increase budget expenditure. In part, rationality, partly the European Union's decisive action, may have resulted in the Prime Minister talking about an earthquake-proof 2019 budget. The threat to the global economy crisis, with partial truth content, mainly due to the peculiarities of the Hungarian model, is about psychological preparation for the withdrawal of an illusory economic growth of more than 4 percent, which you have projected here for the coming years. The budget does not simply consist of the conversion of expenditure items with a fire-fighting character or with a release-resolver, it should be a clear strategy, and very important changes could be made in a few years. It can also be seen in the large Community institutions that they are both underfunded and incorruptible. The reduction in their budgetary weight did not result in an improvement in their efficiency, but rather a deterioration in overall care. Development decisions are professionally unfounded, conscious redevelopment in different areas, for example, railway wing lines, outdated health institutions, government failure to take on board. The state-led centralised decision-making mechanism has not resulted in strategic planning, there is no more efficient and responsive supply of institutions. Instead, it has triggered a drift of inaccessible lobbying interests and led simultaneously to under-planning and wasting the budget, gigantic development ideas and decisions. Non-conceptuality is well demonstrated by the regular assembly and subsequent consolidation of hospital debt stocks by the state, while its causes are neither eliminated nor taken any action. The lack of reflection on the operation of large distribution systems is designed to cover and hide large developments. For example, during the constantly changing concept of the super-hospital in the capital, there is no longer any mention of removing or at least converting the volume limit that hinders the use of capacity. Over the years, the level of wage pressure, foreign employment, labour shortages and, as a result, domestic wage competition in many areas became unsustainable. The inevitable wage increase typically finances an outdated, inefficient institutional structure, but, for example, it now exerts irresistible pressure on public finances to increase public finances in health. Similarly, developments supported by the European Union and financed by the budget, for example, included a significant part of sports facilities, which, after their completion, require significant maintenance costs. In addition, as the resources available from the European Union have been used without a fragmented substantive concept This, particularly in the areas of education, health and public administration development, has hampered breakthroughs and resource use resulting in structural changes. In particular, health systems need additional resources to limit their functionality, sometimes even beyond them, but without these reforms, they can only stabilise earlier, inefficient operations. One of the main problems of Hungarian public education is that the number of early school leavers is constantly increasing, especially among Roma children, instead of reducing, the educational segregation of Roma children is increasing. Secondary education, including the conversion of vocational training, the establishment of vocational schools and vocational secondary schools, and the transformation of secondary secondary schools, are a major step backwards in addition to many formal elements, with significant elements for a non-knowledge-based society. Based on the deteriorating results of the PISA surveys, it is not possible to expect well-prepared professionals from this school system in the medium to long term. All this requires the transformation of the entire education system, not just one of which is the increase in resources. While there is no technical debate, social debate on the strategic transformation of large distribution systems that underpins future budgetary decisions, coup-like, meaningless and even particularly harmful restructurings will be included in the budget, as in the case of the 2019 budget, in connection with the nationalisation of the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The fight against state bureaucracy has been on the agenda for many years, but since the state is focusing on deleveraging, not on over-expansion resulting from the essence of the Hungarian model, it seeks to overcome the problem with further centralization and restructuring, but it only increases the problems. [[12.00]] For example, I see the inclusion of public procurement in a single organisation in the capital city, and the unification of disaster management has led to daily malfunctions. This former operation has already led to the elimination of the organism, by the way. But let us also look at a few items from the expenditure side of public finances, which, in terms of expenditure, is more likely to generate tensions. The budget is very surprisingly HUF 311 in 2018 and HUF 311.3 in 2019. The exchange rate is weaker, while oil becomes more expensive. Accordingly, inflation was underestimated at 2.5 percent this year and 2.7 percent next year. While the adoption of the budget in 2017 would not have significantly changed the assumption for the 2018 projections, the subsequent preparation for the 2019 forecast could be a much more realistic set of conditions in autumn 2018. I will repeat it again later: so in autumn 2018 we could prepare next year's budget much more realistic. It is true that this may be solved by the government's own powers through redeployment, and it may be formally managed, but this is done by excluding the public, and it can be seen that this is how a transparent debate on the budget is being organised from Parliament. The functional expenditure of public finances in relation to GDP changes in 2018 in a structurally unfavourable direction: they still reflect a state-oriented, non-knowledge-based economic development concept. The main change is the increase by 1 percentage point in spending on the state's operational functions, while the share of spending on welfare functions and education is reduced by 1 percentage point. Gentlemen, you spend more on yourselves and less on people. Within welfare expenditure, the share of education is reduced by 0.3 percent. This is one of the worst changes. Health, by the way, doesn't change at all. It's about living up to the future. This is being spread, this is what you are recommending to the Hungarian people, and this is being presented to the Hungarian people. The share of support for cultural activities is slightly reduced, but it does not change into sport. The share of expenditure on economic functions is increasing by 0.2 percentage points, but environmental protection is being reduced. Structurally negative changes are taking place and continue in 2019: they follow an even stronger state-oriented and non-knowledge-based economic development concept. My fellow Member from Harghita was very proud of the increase in police expenditure. While the cost of welfare functions is falling, while, as I say, you are significantly increasing police expenditure. They are preparing for what could be the result of a crisis. However, inflation is expected to exceed the government projections in 2019. I think that you cannot ignore this statement by the Hungarian National Bank, and that is why you must deal with it, and this must be addressed. The general justification for the 2018 budget states that until the end of the first quarter, the total amount of aid available for the period 2014-20 has been announced in order to ensure that most of the aid is paid by the end of 2018. It follows, of course, that the general justification for the 2019 budget states that the annual expected payments will be reduced; the increase in revenue is also in line with the government's objectives. But if all this is spent by the end of the 19th day, then the process of implementing EU programmes is one of the pillars of economic growth, my fellow Member, Lajos Szűcs. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As in the previous cycle, the speed of spending has perhaps become even more priority over the efficient use of the lack of resources. In addition, there is an increased risk that the rapid exit of aid will lead to an increase in investment tides and cyclical fluctuations in growth in the years following 2020 at the beginning of the new period, which will certainly allow for significantly less funding. In addition, a number of development goals independent of EU funding are Paks II, Budapest-Belgrád railway construction, Liget programme, sports facilities -, development idea, development implementation irrational. At the same time, the substantial increase in business investment is very uncertain. Although labour shortages and technical progress would require a wide range of improvements, they will receive much less development. It is feared that part of the implementation will be achieved only through further increases in subsidies. As a result of the deteriorating Hungarian economic environment, in recent years the share of individual government-led investment grants and subsidies in relation to the promised investment has increased significantly in terms of the new employment undertaken. In recent years, support for domestic companies has become increasingly important, and such an increase in subsidies is obviously closely linked to the specific Hungarian business environment. Due to the deterioration of the investment environment, on the one hand, foreign investors need more compensation and, on the other hand, the system can provide outstanding help for the preferred Hungarian companies. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian economic path has significant risks. In addition, the accelerated drawdown of EU funds suggests a strong, further slowing economic path, and the deterioration of external economic activity is also to be expected. However, the structural deficit that remains high in the case of corrections and the still loose monetary policy will be inadequate for the implementation of countercyclical economic policy, where there will be a need for tightening up when it is necessary to relax. The average annual GDP growth over 4 per cent, 4.6 per cent consumption expenditure and nearly 5 per cent investment growth projected in the Convergence Programme and in the 2019 budget outlook appear to be unsubstantiatedly optimistic. This is the case for processes, which would require an improvement in productivity, competitiveness and willingness to invest, which seems completely unrealistic under the circumstances of the Hungarian model. In addition, there is great uncertainty about the new budget cycle of the European Union in 2020. The main risk is, therefore, the development of a Hungarian economic policy moving from 2020 towards the European Union's periphery, which is not improving in its competitiveness, which is lagging behind in the region. We therefore need to draw attention to what the government can and should do to prevent this. The government does not do and does not honour the promises made by the European Union earlier. In the spring 2017 convergence programme, the Hungarian Government promised that by 2020 its structural balance would reach the medium-term objective of 1.5 percent of GDP. On 22 June 2018, the European Commission adopted the evaluation of the convergence programme and reform plans submitted by the Hungarian Government at the end of April, which was already published on 23 May. According to the Council's official opinion, the fact that Hungary did not comply with its commitments in 2017 shows that it will not comply with its commitments in 2018 and that it does not intend to comply with its commitments in 2019. [[12.10]] In addition, we have to say that the government is not only acting with its federal partners, but also the government is not complying with the budgetary rules under Hungarian law. Article 4 of the Stability Act. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act states that if both economic growth and inflation exceed 3 per cent, it is necessary to comply with stricter rules in the Finance Act than are otherwise in force. The government expects a 4.1 per cent increase in GDP in the draft budget law, setting inflation to 2.7 per cent, i.e. according to the government the double condition for the Stability Act is not met, so it is enough that the debt ratio is reduced only to the minimum that can be detected. However, on 19 June 2018, honourable State Secretary, the most competent inflation report of the Hungarian National Bank was published, according to which inflation will be 3.1 percent in 2019 and the double condition will be met, the second half, so the stricter rule must be enforced. According to the Budget Act, the debt ratio of the central subsystem in 2018 cannot be maintained in this way. The requirement for sound budget planning follows in this case, and I will say three things here. Instead of the 2.7 percent inflation in the proposal, the fiscal law must be converted to 3.1 percent according to the National Bank of Hungary, as since the preparation of the draft budget law in April significant changes have occurred in the macro-environment. For example, a depreciation forint should be considered. It is necessary to withdraw this budget, to recalculate the margin provided for by the budgetary rules on the basis of the new inflation plan number, and to take into account the rule laid down in the Stability Act. First, the appropriations linked to inflation should be revised and then the budgetary rules should be enforced by appropriate measures and by amending the statutory appropriations. This requires a tightening of 300-350 billion forints. Otherwise, the budgetary tightening is fully in line with the consequences of loose policy followed by international organisations, experts and the Hungarian National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen. This budget is therefore not eligible, withdrawn and re-submitted in accordance with their own laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-27-27	[[The representative wears a circular red button, in which the inscription is "Hang.hu"]] Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, A budget is a mirror, a mirror of the person who submitted the budget. It shows what kind of social image it represents. Let's face it, Fidesz-KDNP is doing very badly in this, because this budget is not a solution to Hungary's biggest problems and does not prepare the Hungarian economy for the challenges ahead. It is a worthy continuation of the budgets of the past years, as it continues to take the same directions, which continue to lead to deteriorating competitiveness, increasing corruption and the most severe and fragmented society. The result of this budget is that young people who want a safe livelihood and a safe existence will leave the country in 2019 as well. This budget is not on a thank-you basis with reality. He does not recognise the problems Hungary is facing today. This budget could be written in a departmental study based on statistics and mood reports, since it does not respond to anything a Hungarian person is facing today. If someone is walking with his eyes and ears in Hungary today, he sees that there is a wage crisis, a housing crisis, and he sees that there is a demographic crisis. You see that emigration is an unsolved problem, you see that there is an imminent economic crisis and an imminent pension and climate crisis. This budget does not provide a solution to these problems, but makes them even worse. This budget is the biggest loser of the future. In these years, with such budgets, Hungary loses the chance that the XXI. The 20th century also offers a sustainable growth path for society to become a growing, growing, united country in Hungary. For years, we have seen Fidesz not govern, merely using government responsibility as a set to provide an amazing amount of money for his narrow circle of friends and to make life easier for his dear upper tenteen. In the meantime, the Fidesz-KDNP Association is not interested in the collapse of health care, the breakdown of education, the fact that complete families move abroad, and Hungarian colonies are created in large European cities. Fidesz abandons young people, teachers, doctors, nurses, nurses, rural farmers, pensioners, women, public service workers, foreign exchange credulists and domestic entrepreneurs. Hungary is experiencing serious crises and is facing even more serious crises. The state can numb, handle, slow down, even better, or top them and speed them up. The majority of society is abandoned by Fidesz when he presents a budget like the one we have now. This process has been going on for years, in which the poor become even poorer and the rich become even richer. In the system of Fidesz, this unjust process is supported by everything. With a single-key tax, the government creates a perverse redistribution, where the top tenth, the top tenth in the economic sense, is much better off, while the lower layers of society are constantly sinking into a lack of prospects. The rich are studying in elite schools and private teachers, while the majority are trying to perform within crumbling walls in overcrowded rooms, unfortunately weaker and weaker. Today, the place of birth of a child in Hungary will determine what education and education it will receive. This is a serious injustice. And the situation in health care is similar, where public care is on the verge of collapse, and those who can and unfortunately very few can do so turn to private care. Parents who have been trying to raise children for 10 years under the same family allowance have suffered severe injustice. The system is unfair to those who raise their children alone, who are on minimum pensions, who care for their sick relatives and children 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and the state does not recognize it as work. There are no sides of this budget from which there is no injustice, no chapters that will reduce social differences in Hungary. And that's the most serious omission. The first, most important and greatest crime is the government's cuts in education next year. The HUF 15 billion announced by Mihály Varga in real terms means that instead of placing as much resources in education as possible, the funding of education cannot even keep its real value, it cannot even follow inflation. There is no other country in the world where they think that there is no need to spend it on education. On the contrary, all international experience shows that there is no successful country without successful education. Here, too, it is worth remembering that Viktor Orbán's words rarely meet with his actions, he said so himself. It talks about innovation and high value added jobs, but in fact experience shows that the Parragh plan is still being implemented, education is being subordinated to vocational training and cheap labour to serve multinational corporations. They should have learned by now that car manufacturers and similar businesses would be the first to collapse if the crisis came. Well, that's getting closer. Anyone who wants a assembly plant from the country will continue where socialist-free democrat governments stopped in 2010. [[12.20]] The Parragh plan prepares the country for the past, and it should be for the future. Education is the best way to build a just society. Higher education means not only higher income, but also openness and better cooperation, which can later be used in the labour market as well as in civilian life. Unfortunately, Hungary's education does not reduce, but increases the disadvantages from home, thereby essentially creating barriers in certain regions, where a child born today has an extremely high chance of becoming a public worker. Unfortunately, education has not been seen as a priority either by the present or by previous governments, and this is how the Government feels that it can do so without penalty in 2019 and that it does not hold its funding in real terms. The LMP is the most radical in the Hungarian Parliament on this issue. We would not simply replace the sums taken in recent years, but we would even try to finance it above the international average. Education is our number one priority, because it has everything that makes a society better, more successful and happier. The education system will be able to reduce differences and contribute to the building of a just society if both teachers and students are given everything they need to deal with what needs to be taught by the former and the latter learn. This requires a significant increase in the wages of teachers, and the same should be done with staff who support education. We believe that the local people know better what makes a school work well, know better what is needed and what is not, and that not all decisions can be made in Budapest. It's not effective. Schools should be returned to municipalities with adequate funding and the role of participation should also be increased. With the involvement of parents and students, decisions about schools must be made. For LMP, the countryside is of particular importance, and the school and later the university are typically institutions that the settlement, the city, needs in order to keep its young people and keep their intellectuals. As we would like our rural universities to be high-quality, attractive alternatives, we would also like to preserve the excellence of the capital. Last but not least, the independence of education and science for LMP is a principle that cannot be allowed. It is unacceptable for the government to take away the funding of MTA researchers. This is just like the attack on CEU you've been carrying out. Higher education, science, research and development, innovation capacity, they are all the cornerstones and key areas of Hungary's transition to sustainable development and a sustainable economy. The destruction and bledout of education takes away the opportunity for our country to be part of the economic and social transformation that is taking place right now in front of our eyes in the world. As well as successful education, Hungary is not successful without successful Hungarian businesses. We will never be one of the five most livable states in the European Union if economic policy is to make Hungary the assembly plant of the wealthier Western European states. We do not want to serve, but we want to catch up with and prevent these countries first, but this requires successful and strong Hungarian businesses. Hungarian businesses will be successful if they are finally seen as strategic partners by the government and not by foreign large companies. Just think, fellow Members, how many jobs a small family business could have created from the amount of money that multinational companies have received for job creation. I think if you make that comparison, you'll know very well that the LMP is right. The LMP believes that tax incentives and huge job creation subsidies should not be granted to foreign companies, especially when the government recognises that dark clouds are gathering over the world economy. These companies will immediately pack their bags and move on to the East if their profits so require. We believe that small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses, are our long-term and predictable strategic partners, who do not leave even when the economic situation is more difficult. Last but not least, we need to create an environment where Hungarian employers can give workers enough pay. At the moment, the competitive disadvantage affecting small businesses limits the possibility for small businesses to create well-paying jobs. The wrong economic policy of Fidesz is responsible, and unfortunately, the budget does not show and the budget does not show any intention of change. The government is committing the second major crime in the next year's budget against the most vulnerable Hungarians, treating them as invisible. It says a lot about the social policy of Fidesz, who he did not think about when drawing up the budget. He did not think of the family of about half a million single parents, but he did not think of those involved in home care, as the Hungarian government does not devote a single forint to increasing home care support, nor did we read a single sentence in the underlying budget plans to recognise this activity as an employment relationship. When you came to Parliament today, dear fellow Members, I am sure you met young and older parents raising their sick children, husbands, wives and parents. and who have made the request to increase funding for home care. The request has been made, honourable Parliament, honourable Parliament, to acknowledge as an employment relationship the work they do not do from 8:00 to 4:00, but 24 hours a day, Monday to Sunday, without holidays, and I am asking you to do the same. I think that you may now decide, honourable Members, that, in fact, following Christian values, you will see the voice of those in need. I think that a Christian Democratic community and I are not using it sarcastically, so don't get me wrong, you can't let those needy people who are out of the labour market because they're raising their sick children, don't support them. Dear Fidesz-KDNP association and pardon the opposition - they can now decide to accept the LMP amendment proposal and raise home care allowance to a minimum wage and decide to recognise this extremely large work as an employment relationship and thus ensure the more relaxed retirement years of these selfless people. Unfortunately, we have to see that Hungary's other heavy burden, the wage crisis, has been tearing the Hungarian economy apart for years. Today, the situation has become unsustainable in many spheres. Public service workers who have not changed their salary base since 2008 have been in an unworthy situation. Several protests could not convince the Hungarian government to correct the civil servant's wages, even though if this continues, local governments could become inoperable and ultimately the country itself, but a large part of the doctors and nurses are already abroad, there is no waiter or waiter for Lake Balaton, and the performance of the Hungarian industry is increasingly limited by the fact that there is no suitable professional or even more auxiliary workers. This government is very proud of the constant decline in unemployment, but does not talk about the rise in labour shortages in many professions at the same time, nor does the government talk about the fact that emigration is the strongest factor behind the decline in unemployment, nor does this government talk about what it can do or what it wants to do to bring these young people back to find their livelihood at home. The solution to the wage crisis is a fairer tax system. A single-key tax system is a system in which at least 70 percent of workers suffer worse, which is neither fair nor sustainable. Today, there is not much of a country that would experiment with a single-key tax and see economic prosperity in it. [[12.30]] The LMP would introduce a simpler, fairer and sustainable tax system, with which everyone would be better off by three times the current average wage. And yes, dear fellow Members, millions of earners would not benefit from this, especially in response to yesterday's debate, I would like to send a message to my colleague, István Happy. Significantly more money should be left to workers and low-income people should be better helped. It's a fair state redistribution. For years, the government has been playing with the question of VAT on basic foods. I think that one item, selected in a way, does not, in whole or in part, solve the problem of Hungarians having difficulty buying healthy food today. Because tell me, fellow Members, what makes UHT milk healthier than peppers? It's not comparable, is it? We're talking basic food. The principle that you do not want to tax income is entirely in line with the fact that we do not tax basic foods that we do not see anywhere in the world to this extent. I am sorely lacking in the budget to address the issue of minimum pensions. Tens of thousands of our elderly countrymen are struggling with some tens of thousands of forints. For a decade, the government has refused to change the minimum pension amount. Moreover, their number is increasing, as more and more people who retire now receive humiliatingly few pensions, and this is a direct way in which old age is synonymous with poverty. I think that it is all our responsibility in this House to do something about it. Family policy could have been the cornerstone of this budget, since it was said that 2018 was the year of families. But I was just talking about home care, but this budget doesn't answer to them or anyone else. Next year's budget will not bring the desired and otherwise desirable demographic change, except outside Hungary, because today the number of children born abroad is increasing, while the number of children born at home is decreasing. I think everyone outside the government understands why this is so. The government refuses to respond to the housing crisis, even though a rental-building programme, such as a rental-law, could significantly improve this. Until the first child receives the same amount of support from the Hungarian families from the budget, they are not interested in the birth of the second child, because raising the first child puts a burden on the family register without dare to risk the second and third child. The government said it was planning a demographic governance, but according to the budget, it was once again a propaganda-focused budget. This would require stopping emigration, which would require higher wages, tackling the housing crisis and a whole new family support system, and there is no trace of this in the budget. The government's family support system is as narrow as its entire social policy: it only supports a very thin layer generously, I add - it gives almost nothing to anyone else. Family housing benefits, tax incentives are primarily tailored to large families with three children, while smaller families need to reach the three children, and two more are usually born before the third child. According to the LMP, it is not fair and it is therefore not acceptable for the government to distinguish between children and children, depending on the family it is born into, the number of parents arriving in the family and the number of parents raising them. All children are equally important, and, as in all other cases, LMP has the principle of justice that people in need must always be better supported. Family support is an important part of the budget, and there are directions that LMP can fundamentally agree with. Such a course is, for example, to help you access the apartment. However, we already have reservations about the way and extent of this. On the one hand, the CSOK should be transformed in any way so that a significant amount can be obtained even with the first child, since today the vast majority of young people have to choose between building an apartment or having a child. Until these problems are solved, do not expect the birth numbers to rise substantially. The most important thing for us in our family policy foundations is that all children get equal opportunities. Family tax incentives should therefore be extended in such a way that all child support can be provided to families in the case of a child. It has been a serious weakness in the budget for years now that it still refuses to ratify, for example, the Istanbul Convention, which could specifically save lives. Today, we live in a country where every week a woman dies of domestic violence. It is completely incomprehensible what is preventing the Hungarian government from creating conditions for women, children or even men to receive real help, not contempt, condemnation and indifference. However, one of the most painful items in the budget is the lines that constitute the foundation or continuation of environmentally destructive investments. The Paks expansion stands out, which is the biggest attack on the future generation. An unnecessary, expensive, dangerous investment that will sell to all Hungarian families for years will deliver the country to the Russian Empire and Vladimir Putin in person. The capital increase in next year's budget is just another amount of public money that Fidesz-friendly oligarchs can steal, as that investment has no other purpose than filling the pockets of buddy companies. Only in the meantime, Hungary loses the historical chance of modernising its energy supply in such a way that its economy benefits, and thus, let us say, prepare Hungary for the 21st century. The second half of the century. Hungary's natural potential would make the country perfectly capable of providing its energy supply with renewable energy, and its construction could create up to a hundred thousand new, crisis-resistant jobs throughout the country. In Europe's most developed countries, the green economy with the greatest potential for job creation is already the renewable energy industry and the increase in energy efficiency, waste management and the recovery of secondary raw materials, as well as the sustainable agricultural production. Hungary's opportunities in this area are almost unlimited and, unfortunately, they are largely unused. With a tax discount, the transformation of the regulatory system and the support of the creation of knowledge centres and folk colleges presenting good practices abroad and in Hungary, we could help the green economy to develop quickly in our country as well. In order to protect climate change and reduce sustainable household expenditure, we would not support the burning of fossil fuels, but the saving of fossil fuels, because it is the cheapest and cleanest energy that does not have to be used. Thermal insulation and energy modernisation of dwellings could create self-sustaining market jobs in the order of tens of thousands with minimal public spending, using CO2 quota revenues, targeted EU subsidies and savings advanced by energy suppliers. By the government, the Paks II. Instead of building a nuclear power plant, a national public energy efficiency support programme should be launched. The LMP considers spending for protecting the environment not as a luxury of the rich or a mandatory task to be carried out at the minimum level, but as an investment for the future, which is guaranteed to pay back in quality of life, healthy years, but also in most cases in HUF, to bring direct or indirect benefits, or to prevent higher costs later. There is no funding for environmental remediation in the 2019 budget. This is one of the state's most important environmental tasks. There is no energy policy and climate action direction emerging from the draft, as if this problem did not exist for Hungary. Environmental education is not one of the budgetary targets, and we are probably alone in Europe. There is now almost no country that has not recognised that climate change and its consequences are not a science fiction, not a danger of a distant future, but are happening here and now. And if we don't take care of it, we're just going to accelerate the unpredictable, but surely unsustainable processes. For years, agriculture has felt that it is impossible to adapt to the weather, but the types of storms that have not been handled today are also ongoing. Plus, it's just the tip of the iceberg. Land productivity is constantly decreasing, as is the case at global level, water supply problems, in Hungary hostel dust causes thousands of diseases, and the line could continue for a very long time. [[12.40]] Unfortunately, from a rural development point of view, the 2019 budget will continue with cuts and empty promises. As Minister Varga said, the least can be called cautious, since rural communities have been left without rural entrepreneurs and rural development resources. These were allocated for political reasons before the elections. Instead of being predictable, it will be the year of empty promises 2019, as the Prime Minister promised in the days before the election the programme "Modern villages" but there is no trace of this in the budget. The government can therefore continue to break down and depopulation the region of North Hungary, North Great Plains, South Transdanubia, despite the fact that there are four Hungarian regions among the poorest in the Union, the government does not seem to be in a hurry to catch up with them. But not only in rural development, but also in the distribution of resources from the local government, it can be seen that the Hungarian government has renounced Hungary in the countryside, although there is nothing more important than the living, pulsating local community, which is setting out its problems and solutions from the bottom up. Of course, the Hungarian government is thinking exactly the other way around, deciding everything at the highest possible level, and then pushing it on people; now it is only from Kossuth Square, perhaps from the Castle of Buda next year. Local governments could be small circles of participation if we let them live and breathe, which has two conditions: substantial room for manoeuvre for local development, local budget [[István Szilárd Németh: There is still a minute and a half!]] and effective decision-making powers for those living there. Today, I think that everyone knows that a significant part of the development in the capital is decided here, within the walls of this House, rather than at the Metropolitan Assembly. This budget does not put the Hungarian economy on its feet, and because of the upcoming crisis recognised by the government, this would be necessary as soon as possible. In order to do this, we would have to stop unnecessary investment and finally spend it on things where the proportion of Hungarian suppliers is 100 percent, and not in case 70, as in the case of Paks. The range of Hungarian suppliers must be replaced, because as long as Hungarian suppliers are represented by only one person, Lőrinc Mészáros, Hungary remains a loser. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-27-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers presented their views. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2018-06-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, who are following us now through Parliament's website or the Facebook pages of Dialogue. Fidesz's 2019 budget was a budget of an unjust country, and the period from 2010 to here was the era of missed opportunities, fattening of Fidesz thieves and building a Fidesz party state. On the part of the Dialogue, we would like to break off with this fidesz world, and therefore we are putting amendments on the Parliament's table that allow us to reduce inequalities and to set up a future-friendly budget and present an alternative to social democracy. Let's see what led us here, how we stand here in 2018, after eight years of Fidesz government, why do I say this was a time of missed opportunities? We have to say that there is growth in the Hungarian economy now, indicators are improving, employment is increasing, but we also have to add that this is not due to Fidesz's economic policy, and even against it. This is due to the growth of the international environment, the favourable international economic climate and thousands of billions of EU funds. What Fidesz did is, on the one hand, that while the surrounding countries came out of the crisis in 2010, we had a so-called W-shaped crisis, so we fell back into the crisis because of the incompetent, incompetent, fidesz economic policy. [[Ferenc Koncz: When was this?]] 2011-12, if you ask my fellow Member. What is thanks to Fidesz again is that, in the last three years, Hungary has taken the following positions in terms of the speed of growth: the sixth, the eighth and the fifth of the eight have taken place. So much for this wonderful growth, and let us add that next year's growth is also planned beyond the budget, the not too hostile Hungarian National Bank predicts an increase of nearly 1 percentage point lower than the government. What is again the result of Fidesz is that our competitiveness is stagnating at best in international comparisons, social inequalities are growing, and nothing has happened that has served to improve long-term competitiveness. No investment has been made in people, no investment has been made in education, health, wage development, social security improvement, but in what they have invested, concrete and steel, unproductive investments, luxury investments that have not benefited in any way other than prestige. What is also due to Fidesz is that the Hungarian forint has lost nearly a quarter of its value in the last eight years, today the exchange rate of the forint is 23 percent lower than in 2010 compared to the euro, and this is not a characteristic of such an area, because the Czech koruna has kept its value against the euro, and the Polish złoty or Romanian lei have strengthened around 10 percent against the euro. Of course, it is understandable that this failure, the failure of Fidesz, is, on the one hand, that if an economy is robbed of 500-1000 billion forints a year, it cannot be tolerated without consequences. If the rule of law and democracy are shattered, the economy will not work well there. If they take away their private pension savings from people, they beat it, and even so, the government debt increases by HUF 10 000 billion, it does not help the situation of an economy again. Let us look at what has been spent in this period and what is being spent now, and compare the structure of the 2010 and 2019 budgets. What we're spending a lot more on is state functions. This has increased from 14 to 18 per cent of the budget expenditure in the last eight years, so the so-called economy Fidesz state is costing Hungarian taxpayers HUF 823 billion a year. That's what I'm saying. This is the construction of the overweight Fidesz party state. This costs us more than HUF 800 billion a year. The other thing that is spent much more in Fidesz's kleptocracy is the state's so-called economic functions: from 13 to nearly 20 percent of the costs of this type of expenditure, 1400 billion HUF/year, which is an extra cost compared to 2010. What are they spending this on? For example, such as crowding out foreign or government-related owners from different sectors, buying up loss-making companies, renting them out for public money, and then selling them to Fidesz buddies cheaply. It's a very expensive entertainment. So these two items total HUF 2222 billion per year. The majority of this has, of course, been taken away from social functions, education, health care, wages, social benefits, but this is such a line that the basic income proposed by the Dialogue could be introduced with exactly that amount of money. But let's see a few more interesting changes from 2018 to 2019, what the nice government colleagues have come up with here! What changes from 18 to 19? For example, the cost of education is reduced in proportion to GDP, the cost of health care is reduced, the expenditure on pensions is also reduced, family allowances and children's allowances are again reduced, housing subsidies are also reduced in proportion to GDP and social support is reduced in proportion to GDP. There is only one welfare function in the Hungarian state that shows a substantial increase from .18 to.19, and this is inventive! sport, which will receive more than 27 percent more money, because so far, stadiums and football teams that are dear to the Prime Minister's heart have been so badly released that it is necessary to throw a bonus of nearly 30 percent. What does not increase in 2019, however, is most of the benefits, most of the subsidies that affect people, they care because they go in their pockets. There will be no increase in family allowance, child care fee, per capita amount of public health care, regular child protection allowance, substitute parental fee, child protection fund, support for social civil society organisations, support for sign language, care of the homeless, homes of autistic homes, homes of mentally impaired and cumulative disabled people, community benefits, street social work, crisis centres, children's homes, and even institutional children's meals. [[12.50]] At a time when inflation is expected to be very high compared to the previous years, it is expected that inflation will be 3 per cent, so that the benefits that have been left unchanged will lose 3 per cent of their value, in fact, that is how much less those who have been entitled to such aid. Some further changes, which have rightly raised the issue in recent days, such as the reduction of the social contribution tax, which at first glance seems to be a positive step, since it leaves 100 billion forints, but not for people, but for businesses. Not workers' taxes are falling, but employers' taxes are falling. So when Fidesz talks about representing people's interests against companies, he's obviously lying again, and here's a spectacular piece of evidence. Another such change is that by 2019 they will virtually kill the cafeteria system, which most workers will once again feel in their own pockets. Up to tens of thousands of forints per month may be the loss that you will have to suffer because of such a tax increase. But fortunately, the salaries of ministers may increase to 5 million forints a month, and all this depends on Viktor Orbán's favor. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] It's in the law. In addition, they will lose support for employment for people over 55 in return for increasing the money to be spent on unemployment benefits. I think it's exposing itself and the consequences of the action again. It's still hard enough to get a job over 55, even if the job protection plan has been set up so far. And, of course, as we have grown accustomed to in the last eight years, hundreds and hundreds of billions more are going to make pointless, even harmful investments. The most irritating of these are the Paks II investment, which will cost us more than 100 billion forints next year, or the Puskás Arena, which costs 90 billion. And then there's the move of the Government of Orbán to Castle. Only the transfer of the Ministry of Finance from the budget to the Castle will cost us HUF 13.5 billion. Looks like the offices we've had so far haven't been that good, I'm sure they're a lot better off a mile away. I'm sure it's worth the taxpayers' money. I think this shows that Fidesz's 2019 budget is a law of infinite injustice, which the Dialogue considers totally unacceptable. On the other hand, we have created a budget for social democracy, which is a future-friendly budget that reduces inequality. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] We are going to put packages of modifications on the table in the next few days that will bring down the fidesz kleptocracy, the party state, and give hundreds of billions to education, health care, or even increase social benefits. For example, we spend nearly 1 percent of GDP on education, 300 billion forints more. We return the HUF 28 billion of MTA, which is not particularly important as a budget line, but as a guarantee of the independence of science and research. We increase the wages of healthcare workers, and we have allocated 140 billion forints and double the family allowance, which costs more than 300 billion forints, but there is also a budget for this. You can reduce personal income tax to find a way to replace the cafeteria. In fact, there has been a hidden multi-key tax system in Hungary, in Hungary where most of the voters, the majority of the Fidesz voters, support fair multi-key tax and not Fidesz's unfair one-key tax. The return of this, the income tax-free up to HUF 100,000, will also be included in this amending package. We increase the care fee, as it is amazing that seven days a week, 24 hours a day, they are able to transfer 50,000 HUF humiliating allowances to these people to care for a sick family member. This should be raised at least to the minimum wage. In this package, we will increase the resources for children's meals, because I think we can agree that we cannot be a hungry child in Hungary today if we are supposed to have such economic success. Nationalising the part of the Zugló model on housing support [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Forint 50 billion is used to prevent homelessness, because after the collapse of housing loans, Fidesz was unable to handle this social crisis. We also pay attention to single - parent families. In Fidesz's draft budget, the amount spent on the advance payment of child support is reduced by 28 percent. This mainly concerns divorced moms. I do not understand why saving a few hundred million forints would endanger the safety of the most vulnerable single - parent families. Increase the support of civil society organisations. We would spend HUF 90 billion on residential energy efficiency programmes, and we will also allocate a framework for holding a referendum on Paks II. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government ranks.]] On different lines, more than half a billion forints are set aside for wage increases, and we would use 120 billion forints to solve labour shortages in certain professions and areas, re-training and other employment tools in addition. In fact, in a budget amendment, we also show that the basic income supported by 70 percent of Hungarians could be introduced from one year to the next if Fidesz really meant the term'security'. Obviously, the question is, how would we fund all this? Well, I'll tell you. On the one hand, the Fidesz billionaires, the super-rich, have to be taken away. We would tax offshore companies, which Fidesz exempted from taxation in 2011, in one of the first areas of its actions, because it seems that the offshore knight is only unpleasant as long as he is not in the ranks of Fidesz, and they have been friends ever since. In the same way, the oligarchs can be well taxed. Big owners can be taxed because we can see that EU subsidies go to the giant estates and the Butchers and the Csányiks. You can tax banks and big corporations because they have never seen profits, luxury pros, as you would say, in these companies. They are now making their taxation easier, and in recent years they have reduced corporate tax, which can now be called one-key again. Just as the single-key tax in personal income tax is unfair, so is the single-key tax in corporate tax, just as the corporate tax benefits are to be financed by the Prime Minister's favourite football team. We would also tax environmental pollution and climate change activities. Rather, you have shown yourself taxing environmentally friendly products, thus hindering, say, the spread of solar panels or wind power plants. We know they're doing this as Putin's surrogate, which continues to be a continuing treason, according to the Dialogue's assessment. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Well, that's what a decent government's smart, responsible, future-friendly budget would look like. A budget for social democracy. It's a dialogue budget. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-27-30	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány, another lead speaker of the Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-27-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Madam and Lords, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, There have been several arguments here in favour of the spread of Hungarian economic data. Allow me to make some important additions to this, and to rebut some of the views of my fellow members who are pro-government. Let's start with one of the biggest problems of the Hungarian economy, the weak forint. Compared to 2010, the forint weakened dramatically by more than 20 percent compared to the euro. The weakening of the forint means that money is actually being stolen from people's pockets, as people who live on wages and salaries and other contributions can buy less goods in shops, and pensioners' benefits are less. The government's references and attempts to weaken the forint can be compared to the medieval king's method, when the rulers tried to minimize the precious metal content of the money, cheating it from its value. [[13.00]] So the weak forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints could only be wanted by weak people. So far, the opinion. What numbers are behind this and what the consequences of this quote are, and allow me to quote you from the recent news today. Yes, the weakening of the forint also means the depreciation of wages and, by the way, the depreciation of pensions. According to recent data published today, Hungarian workers earn about 7 percent less than Slovak employees, they earn 11 percent less than Czech workers, they earn 16.5% less than Polish employees, and Slovenian salaries I dare not even quote here, they are light-years away from Hungarian salaries. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] And while Hungarian wages are increasingly being devalued by weak forints, they do not pass the cafeteria benefits, while they also allow ministerial salaries to be increased to up to HUF 5 million. Several figures have been said about the losses of cafeteria reduction for workers. In order to avoid the number war, I would like to quote today's number of advocacy organizations, which, according to calculations, means HUF 88,000 a year minus for employees, the elimination of the current cafeteria system. It is clear that one of the consequences of weak forints is weak Hungarian wages, and otherwise this is not necessarily a plague of God, it is not legal that the forint should be weakened, as my fellow Member from Torda has already pointed out, during the same period the forint weakened significantly more than the Czech crown, the Romanian lei and the Polish złoty. So it is not that this is a general Eastern European curse, that it is the result of a global crisis, simply the result of the Hungarian National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, and the economic policy of the Hungarian government since 2010. That's one of the things I'd like to say. The other thing I would like to say is that, although you talk a lot about sovereign debt, there is no doubt that public debt is manageable when it comes to GDP. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] At the same time! You don't have to be as proud of this result, and it's not as positive as you'd like to see it. Which is why we should not be proud of this number, that every time you tell me how much you have reduced the public debt, I would like you to always add that, yes, we have reduced it by taking 3,000 billion from 3 million people, and thus reducing the Hungarian government debt, only that you have taken away 3000 billion of pension savings from 3 million people, they never add that. Without this number, this decline would not be impressive at all. Otherwise, the Hungarian government debt ratio will even increase slightly, and this is already the result of your activities, as Eximbank has to be reported to the banks of public finances, the results of this bank have to be included in the balance sheet, and it is regrettable that you have used Eximbank in recent years to lend to Andy Vajna, for example, to buy TV2. As a result, the Hungarian government debt increased according to Eurostat data, since such a commitment is obvious public money and public debt. As a result, instead of continuing the trend of government debt in recent years, it will, as a result, even slightly increase in your calculations. I'd like to keep an eye on that. And this is the result of your activities, by the way. As far as Hungarian economic data are concerned, I would like us to paint a realistic picture here, too. The fact that the EU Member States, the former socialist countries that have become members of the European Union from the Eastern European region, are growing to a much greater extent than the traditional, old members of the Union. This was the case before 2010, and has been the case ever since. On the one hand, when Viktor Orbán talks about the fact that Eastern Europe is one of the drivers of economic growth in Europe, he is partly telling the truth, but he does not add that this has been the case for many years, and one of the Union's aspirations is precisely this, which is why there are cohesion funds and other EU funds to help catch up, and that is why EU funds flow dramatically to Hungary, among other things, from which Hungarian economic growth feeds not only Hungarian economic growth, I add - that is precisely the aim. The fact that this goal has been achieved should not give rise to hurrahoptimism in itself. All the more so, because if you look at the same countries that have become members of the Union, together with us or at a similar time, their economic growth, you will see that the numbers of Hungarian economic growth are modest. If we look at the economic growth indicators of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia after 2010, we can see that Hungary is lagging behind in terms of economic growth in many of these countries, and that Romanian economic growth is so severe that Hungarian economic growth cannot be seen from the rear-view mirror. In this sense, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth being a little modest for all of us, especially for the parties of government. And if we look at the price at which these economic figures and economic results, which have now been a little more realistic, have evolved in recent years, then we have come to the most serious problem, because these figures, which I have said and nuanced for you, have evolved in such a way that, after 2010, you have ripped Hungarian society into two. After 2010, those who are doing well in this country are getting better and better, and those who could expect modest state aid, and those who are getting worse and worse. To say a few numbers: the value of the family allowance was not increased by a penny, the salary, basic salary, multiplier, and pay table of the public sector employees, the minimum pension was not raised by a penny, the minimum pension amount was not increased by a penny. So your policy, which, in terms of its economic results, is realisticly questionable, your policy is based on a price that should not have been paid to Hungarian society. The Hungarian society has been torn in half by you, and those who do not belong to the privileged ranks of the top ten thousand are becoming more and more separated from it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, This budget boasts economic results that we should see much more realistic and have social consequences, social consequences that should be rejected by a well-informed Member. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-27-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. Congressman, please.
u2018-06-27-33	Danke Sehr. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/503. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist wenn es gesagt werden kann fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.10]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express my views on the 2019 Central Budget, T/503. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. My comment on the draft budget law, if you can say so, is now traditionally starting with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe:. The tolerance can only indicate a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let me briefly interpret Goethe's quote on ethnicities in Hungary. From the perspective of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they just tolerate, tolerate their presence. For centuries, they have added their knowledge, their work, their talents to the prosperity of the country in which they lived and whose citizens they were. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for Hungary! So acceptance is not enough; only acceptance is, in itself, an insult. We want more, we expect more recognition! Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition. We're still working on it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Let me therefore start with a little reflection on the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the last term; what and how we have been able to move forward in the previous four years; where we are today; what tasks we have ahead of us, because without having a sufficient knowledge of these, it is not possible to assess the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2019 in a realistic way, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. Nearly four years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that we are at the same time in an easy and difficult situation. The easy situation was caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian nationalities had little to do with the drafting of the budget laws of 2013 and the previous years and decades, so that we could give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. On the other hand, I was in a difficult situation, because that first minority parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than 20 years earlier, so we have to eliminate almost two decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be classified, for decades, what an unworthy state the nationalities in Hungary had been forced to live and operate. Just as an example and as a reminder: the so-called gender frameworks available for the operational support of national minority civil society organisations, support for national minority programmes, have practically not changed from 2002 to 2014 and did not cover a fraction of the incoming needs, 10-15 percent. The budget of HUF 30 million at the time for the native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying for two dumplings of ice cream per minority child. On average, the annual operating support of the municipal self-governments was HUF 222 thousand gross, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. At national national minority authorities, economic, financial and administrative costs have steadily increased with changes in public finance legislation and various legal requirements, while the aid remains unchanged. In summary, it had to be said that until 2013 the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation. However, there have been positive positive changes from 2013 onwards. Among these, the most important change in 2013 is the fact that the support was significantly increased and normative not only in the case of national education institutions, but also in the case of national minority self-governments and their associations. On the other hand, with the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation has been granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which has opened up new opportunities for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the previously less than HUF 4 billion and, for many years, unchanged support by around HUF 2 billion and by more than 50%. Less than half a year later, in the 2016 Central Budget Act, we were able to achieve another significant increase of HUF 2 billion of HUF 63.4 million, then HUF 678.1 million in the 2017 Act, and finally HUF 1 billion of HUF 689 million in the 2018 Central Budget Act for the 13 Hungarian nationalities. As a combined effect of the four years, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. First of all, we have raised the operating and ethnic cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs from HUF 110 million to HUF 500 million, i.e. significantly, more than four times. Secondly, we were able to raise the 30 million HUF budget to more than 13 times the national minority mother tongue student camp. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this significantly increased framework is objectively still covering only part of the realistic needs. I'll talk about this in detail for the next two days. Thirdly, we have doubled the so-called task-based differentiated support framework for the general operating support of local ethnic authorities more than three times. Fourthly, we were able to raise the support of institutions maintained by national minority authorities and national minority media and national minority authorities in 2015 and 2017 and thus address the most pressing funding problems. Fifthly, we have been able to provide a complementary minority support framework of several individual decisions in important areas, such as the promotion of ethnic theatres, ethnic theatres, local minority self-governments receiving the maintenance of nationality institutions, and complementary support for public education and cultural nationality institutions taken over by local ethnic authorities. Sixthly, lastly, but what is also a top priority for our future is that in the 2015 budget, we have been able to open a new title order to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering framework of the minority public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments and associations. I will also discuss this in more detail in the next two days. However, even at this point in the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act, I concluded by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited changes, we believe that this is a moment when all the problems, tasks, problems, and unreserved thanks must be said. And that's what I'm doing right now. On behalf of the nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament for their support over the past year. Thank you for unanimously voting on all amendments to the law tabled by the NEB, except for the daily topics of political battles, all factions and all Members of Parliament. [[13.20]] At the same time, the aid increases in the previous cycle should be managed and evaluated in place, in addition to the specific figures, by a full review of the situation of nationalities living in Hungary. As early as the preparation of the Central Budget Laws 2017 and 2018, we have faced the situation that, on the one hand, who looked at the very positive changes in 2015 and 2016 compared to the previous ones, looked at the figures and only knew them, he saw them, and he had the full right to suggest that the nationalities in Hungary received a serious increase in support over these two years compared to the general increase in the budget. And from that point of view, they are undoubtedly right. On the other hand, who has seen the situation of nationalities in Hungary comprehensively, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started to maintain our mother tongue, our identity, our traditions, our transfer to our children, and how much we are in the last hour, it also knows that the last four years have only been enough to hold on, to have faith again, and to take a new impetus on the path that ensures the survival and survival of the nationalities in Hungary. The consultation and understanding of these two viewpoints, opinions, and the establishment of an appropriate consensus have also been a feature of the process of national consultation on the proposals for central fiscal law in 2017 and 2018. Thirdly, it should be pointed out that in the last cycle there have been very intensive discussions on regulatory issues, there have been noticeable and practical differences, the opinions of the relevant wallets and Hungarian ethnicities at NEB and ONÖSZ level differed from those of the specialists on a number of substantive issues. That is why I believe it is important at the beginning of the new parliamentary term that the united position of the nationalities in Hungary, its essence, be made clear here and now. On the one hand, on several occasions in our Parliament's speeches in the last term, we have already mentioned that, as clearly positive changes have been in the numerical increase in national minority support, sometimes there have been, in our view, wrong efforts and sometimes wrong decisions in the regulatory areas. In particular, the management rules of municipal authorities were automatically drawn to local minority self-governments, which is completely unviable. On the other hand, national self-governments have been tried to include or classify among civil society organisations supported by the application system, which would significantly limit their self-management and are incompatible with the principle of self-government, the cultural autonomy of nationality. Thirdly, instead of encouraging economic, long-term farming, by prohibiting the continuation of rational savings, annual accountability makes it difficult for national authorities to fulfil their basic tasks, forcing them to wasteful farming. Rethinking and regulating all these issues has been accelerated and urgent by the new system of the 2017 budget. Finally, we came to a compromise, transitional regulation that was acceptable to us. At the same time, we agreed with NGM and EMMI that the 2017 rules on the granting, use and settlement of aid are temporary and that, based on the experience of the Central Budget Laws 2017 and 2018, we will re-examine and generalise the regulatory issues relating to minority self-governments. We consider this to be one of the most important tasks of the parliamentary term that we are about to begin. I would also like to stress that we do not, by chance, want to oppose transparency or any level of control, order and rank, on the contrary. Whether it is an audit by the Treasury, the State Audit Office or the Ministry of Commerce, we accept and even require it in every respect. At the same time, we will take action with all our might against unnecessary, pointless, parallel checks, only bureaucracy increasing administration and the costs involved. After all this, we have reached a new parliamentary term and the draft central budget law for 2019. In the draft central budget law of 2019, except for Roma ethnicum in the new governmental and ministerial structure, the 12 other nationalities in Hungary were transferred from the Ministry of Human Resources to the Prime Minister's Office, where, as Minister without a wallet, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén became the 12 ministers responsible for ethnicity in Hungary. As a result of this change, support for local and national minority self-governments in the draft central budget law of 2019 remained in Annex 9, but was broken down for all appropriations in Annex XI. The Prime Minister's Office has a chapter on 12 ethnicities and XX. The amount of Roma subsidies left in the chapter of the Ministry of Human Resources. The national minority grants under ministerial competence and the support of national minority institutions for investment and renovation grants were also transferred to the XI. Prime Minister's Office chapter. In this way, two ministries and two ministers will be responsible for national policy in Hungary. We look forward to the new solution with positive expectations from the Hungarian nationalities, we feel that we will receive special attention, and we sincerely hope that, after learning the detailed rules and procedures, this can bring further progress for all 13 Hungarian nationalities. The nationalities in Hungary's budget requirements for 2019 were discussed in advance with the national minority self-governments, national minority advocates, and discussions with the parliamentary factions and the purses responsible for nationalities are ongoing. On this basis, 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 5 billion HUF 120 million amendment to the 2019 draft budget in the following areas of focus. Half of the funding needs, 49 percent, HUF 2 billion 520 million are used to provide the investment and renovation application part of the building and construction stock of the national governments and the institutions they maintain, so it serves our future. In the case of national minority authorities and the media, we will increase the operating aid of 20 per cent and 10 per cent in the case of their institutions. I would like to point out right here that in 2018, there was no increase in support for national minority self-governments. 30 per cent of the support needs are the second step of the national education programme launched in 2018, according to which the nationality allowance is increased from 15 per cent to 30 per cent, and we provide a specific framework for the education of national children. Eight percent of the demands, HUF 405 million for national minority associations, organisations and schools, are raised. Finally, a 10% increase in the operating support of local ethnic authorities amounts to HUF 188 million. I will explain in detail the justification and justification of all these points in the next two days, but, of course, I am asking for the support of all parliamentary groups and independent representatives to accept the 2019 ethnic needs of Hungary. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. If there are no candidates, there is no need for a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, Ministry of Finance. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.30]]
u2018-06-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dear Parliament, I believe that in the debate on the draft budget law for next year, the situation of the Hungarian economy and the direction of the budget have been made with statements that I believe are completely lacking knowledge of the real processes, the processes based on statistical figures. Therefore, allow me to address these broad findings in a few sentences and try to refute these allegations. One of the fundamental statements about the policy that has been defining economic policy, budgetary policy and thus the 2019 budget was that this economic policy has led nowhere, we have not stabilised the economic situation, we are dependent solely on EU resources and the external environment, so that if there is a crisis next year, then Hungarian economic policy is vulnerable, the foundations are bad, the ideas on which we have built next year's budget are bad. However, let me recall that, in the context of the statement that we have not stabilised the economy, we have been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure after nine years. Hungary is one of the European Union countries that have been able to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio year by year, with Eurostat following, for example, a procedure that we believe is not transparent in this Exim dispute and where Exim's expenditure is to be accounted for among the items of the Hungarian State. In parentheses, why do I say it's not transparent? Because Exim-like organisations operate in most EU countries. In some interesting ways, in some countries, this ex is part of the state, elsewhere outside of it. I accept Eurostat's decision if it does so in a transparent manner and publishes the arguments that led it to make this decision in one country and the other country. But this has not happened, which is why I think that the procedure used by the EU bodies in this regard is not principled. However, together with Exim, the Hungarian government debt ratio decreased in every comparison. Not to mention how the structure of the public debt has changed. If we are talking about how the forint/euro rate changes, we can also say that we have been able to reduce the foreign exchange debt of families, we have been able to virtually eliminate the problem, there is less than 1 percent of the debt in the retail loans in foreign currency, and only those families where income is available in foreign currency can have foreign currency debt. In addition, I think it is particularly important to assess that the foreign exchange ratio of public debt has also been reduced from over 50 per cent to 20 per cent, and that is the way we are going, as appropriate, in next year's draft budget law. But what is the situation with the economy? Are the foundations on which we build good? I'd like to continue with the over-deficit procedure, after the debt, with the current account. The vulnerability of an economy is also demonstrated by whether or not there is a deficit in the current account. I report that in the past, the Hungarian economy was twin-deficit, the current balance of payments was also lacking, and there was a great lack of public finances. That's what economists are afraid of. The situation is quite the opposite now; employment figures have been said many times and growth figures have also been made. I would like to turn to whether or not we depend solely on EU funds. I apologise for the wording, but I feel a little unworthy of this debate between the walls of this House, because we are conducting it year after year. When we ask whether EU funds determine whether a country is growing or not, if we accept this narrative, should we not see these countries soaring for more than three decades in the case of the EU Member States and net beneficiary countries, Greece, Portugal, Spain? I ask the question: shouldn't we have seen, after our accession in 2004, that there is a very significant, fast real convergence? I also always ask: if EU subsidies automatically bring growth to a given country, then shouldn't countries that are so-called net contributors, such as Germany, suffer? And if we ask these questions, then I think that we can still achieve that the quality of economic policy basically determines whether there is growth in the longer term, whether there is real convergence, whether there is a pay gap or not. I must say, on the basis of the figures, that I am confident that we have built next year's draft budget law on the right basis. As regards the so-called countercyclical nature of economic policy, which has also been spoken of by the leaders of Jobbik, and I am pleased to see in the absence that left-wing organisations are also concerned about the so-called structural deficit, I must say that in the context of so-called countercyclical policy, when there is substantial economic growth, it is appropriate to reduce the deficit, just in order to reduce public debt to a greater extent. That's what we're doing. This is what the budget bill of 19 is about. We're calculating a 1.8 percent deficit. Indeed, I am not boring this House with debates about the structural balance, because it is a concept that economists have had long debates among themselves: what is the potential, theoretical growth of the economy? What are the one-off items on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget to be corrected? The important thing is that, in our view, next year's draft budget law estimates a 1.7 percent deficit for such a complicated, so-called structural balance, and this may fall to 1.5 percent in 2020. What I think is very important is that, in our opinion, the deficit indicator and the debt indicator that everyone is watching is going well, by which I mean a substantial deficit reduction. It has often been said that we believe it is realistic that by the end of next year, the debt rate will fall to 70 percent. Another comprehensive criticism of the draft budget law was that this budget is unsustainable, and I have also heard of Jobbik's side and left-wing factions - which meant unsustainable processes in terms of demographic processes or, for example, the process of emigration. Then let's look at the numbers. On the one hand, it was said in the case of family support that over HUF 2000 billion is the total amount of tax relief and direct support that, if accepted by the Honourable Parliament, is available to families in 2019. This represents an increase of 80-90 billion forints compared to the 2018 plans, but also compared to the adopted 2018 budget. I think that, indeed, family policy measures also have a role to play in the fact that the rate of fertility that has been seen before 2010 and which is decreasing year after year has been put on a growing path: it is around 1.5. We are a long way from 2 or above, but we still need to see that this fertility rate has steadily deteriorated before 2010 and has been improving ever since. Please look at the European Union figures: this is a substantial increase in international terms, which I think we should be happy about, and from this approach, yes, next year's draft budget law is moving in a sustainable direction by extending these subsidies or tax incentives. As for emigration, let's look at the numbers again. In addition to the fact that EU accession has brought with it the free movement of labour, with some delay, we must see that, yes, it is statistically measurable how many people leave a country in a given year and how many people go back. Let's look at the Hungarian data in an international outlook! According to Eurostat data, 5.2% live abroad for Hungary in the 20-64 age group. I often hear Romania as an example: 19.7 percent. Let's take a look at the area. The figures are higher than the Hungarian figures, the Slovak, the Polish indicator, the Baltic countries, over 10 percent, Ireland 8.8 percent, Luxembourg Luxembourg! 8.1 percent; for comparison I say the Hungarian indicator: 5.2 percent. Of course, we are working to ensure that as many people find their calculations in Hungary as possible. But, honourable Members, I think that from one year to the next, the level of real wages, the level of economic development, cannot be brought up to the level of the most advanced countries in the European Union. Trends need to be looked at and seen as a substantial catch-up, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of real wages. I think it is also due to this fact that, based on public statistics, more people came home in 2017 than they had gone. I commend this respectfully to the honourable better Members. We're working on making sure that as many people find their calculations at home. And if I have already said demographic issues in sustainability, that is why in next year's draft budget law, the amount of family benefits is also increasing, and the benefits of the two children are also increasing. All family benefits can reach more than HUF 360 billion. This is a measure that we could not see before 2010. And home-building grants reach the highest level, above HUF 240 billion. These are two new measures, which have been decided under civil governance, and the sum of the two measures exceeds HUF 600 billion, which is intended to enable as many people to find their calculation at home. [[13.40]] It was a comprehensive statement from the left that this budget was an anti-future budget. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] Here is a confirmation, and with respect to left-wing Members, I ask how the budgets before 2010 will be classified. It has been classified as a future budget because education, health and welfare functions are not considered to be available with sufficient resources. Let me now say the figures: Since 2010, when we look at the 2019 bill, education and health expenditures have increased not only nominally, but also in real terms, corrected according to inflation. Then let's look at the medical expenses. On the basis of OECD statistics, I stress that, based on OECD statistics, health expenditure per capita decreased between 2003 and 2009 and increased between 2009 and 16 years. I didn't do the summation, it's OECD statistics. So when the government is called to account for what it does in these areas, I think it is worthwhile to have a baseline. And what we can say for next year's budget is that the funding of these areas is increasing. It has often been said that this is only HUF 15 billion in education. Then I think it is important to point out that this HUF 15 billion increase is a combined change in EU and domestic resources. Due to significant investment in EU funds, subsidies are falling, which is overcompensated by the extra expenditure on education, which is purely domestic. Thus, there is a much higher surplus from purely domestic sources, which is available in the field of education. Prosperity functions, it's also an old debate. I think it should be welcomed that more and more people are able to live on work and that less resources must be provided for aid. If we look at the individual areas within the welfare functions here, then in pensions, which is nominally one of the largest areas, next year's budget will carry on the government's commitment not only to preserve the real value of pensions, but also to count on the payment of the pension premium as a result of economic growth exceeding 3.5 percent, this could amount to nearly HUF 30 billion. There was also a general statement on next year's budget that it was not based on real figures, as we do not know the closing accounts. Well, with all due respect, I have to ask you what your opinion on the budgets before 2010 is. How real were those numbers based on? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I can hear your comments from Mrs. Congresswoman, with all due respect. [[Dr. István Apáti: It's quite unpleasant.]] I apologise to Mr President and the Parliament, but I have been charged with serving as best I can under my oath. I joined the Ministry of Finance in 1998, and I worked to the best of my ability, I might add, not in a state leadership position. I would have had the opportunity to accept such a request before 2010 for reasons of principle. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I repeat, I was working under my oath in the service of the nation. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can't see it.]] I'm glad that back then those ministers and leaders knew what my personal attitude was, what my view was... I could do my job at a certain level, I could do it in a certain position, and I didn't have any retortion. And I am pleased that from 2010 I will be able to work for a government that shares my core values: families, a nation's prominent role. And I am pleased that I am not here to report to you on the fact that we have been under the excessive deficit procedure for nine years, and I am not going to go to Brussels to handle it because our deficit is 6 and 9 percent, but to withdraw EU funds from us, but to say that the Hungarian economy has been characterised by a stable budget in recent years, and I hope that this will also be the case in 2019. I apologise to the Honourable Parliament for not being able to stop myself from saying this personal part about multiple contributions. In addition to the welfare functions, Mr Csárdi spoke for a long time about the care fee. Therefore, in fact, let me say that from 1 January 2014 the amount of the increased care fee increased by 15 percent. The special care fee was introduced, from 2017 and from 1 January 18, the amount of all this type of care increased by 5-5 percent, and from January of this year, the support of long-term care providers in the elderly was created as a new benefit, which provides their child with a monthly allowance of HUF 50,000 in addition to the old-age pension for at least 20 years. So, with all due respect, I ask the representatives of the opposition factions that when a claim is made in a single area, they should look at what happened specifically and see what the figures show. It is a question of exchange rate and inflation. Mr László Varju quoted precisely that, compared to the government's 2.7 percent inflation projections, the central bank expects a 3.1 percent inflation rate in its latest document. At the same time, it should be noted that in this respect, all organisations have only prognosis and do not have factual information on inflation developments. Of course, there are also risks in terms of inflation. There is an estimate of how the oil price develops, there is an estimate of how the external environment develops, what the so-called imported effect is in inflation. But precisely because the level of inflation cannot be precisely set in place, and we see that in the global economy, whether in the real economy, I am thinking of the waves of the trade war, or in the money market area, I am thinking of the changing level of public debt financing in many European and global areas... the government is calculating the increased amount of reserves in the next year's budget. Of course, we have carried out an analysis of the risks involved in moving from the planned level of inflation in one direction or another, or in shifting the exchange rate. That's why we've been planning bigger reserves. Of these larger reserves, HUF 90 billion can be used only to keep the deficit target in the government. Among the keynote speeches was the question of whether it was appropriate to take a decision on the budget law or tax laws six months before the beginning of the budget year. Again, there was a reference to global economic processes, or to the fact that we do not know the numbers. 17. I must first say that we know the figures for 2017 in terms of both growth and public finances and other real economic developments. We know that last year's deficit was 2 percent compared to 2.4 percent. We know that public debt decreased by 2.6 percentage points in proportion to GDP. [[13.50]] We know how the number of employees turned out. This does not mean, of course, that the Parliament should not be familiar with the closing bill in addition to these figures. The bill of discharge will be submitted by the Government to the Honourable Parliament in accordance with the law, within the relevant legal deadline. I would just like to note that the discussion of the closing account does not therefore mean that we do not know the 2017 base and that we do not know the expected processes for 2018, for which we have planned the draft budget law for next year. Of course, a different prognosis could be given six months later for some macroeconomic figures, but that is why we have been counting on substantial reserves since spring fiscal planning and parliamentary approval became a practice. I think the last few years have shown that this budget has stood the test of time. With regard to what Mr Varju said that the budgets were amended, I would like to say factually that these amendments were made both for 2016 and for 2017 because the budget situation was better than originally calculated. If you like, in the words of Conservative Congressman Harghitai, a Christian-democratic-spirited budget has been made in this sense a Christian-democratic-spirited budget. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How's that?]] , and the additional revenues gave us the opportunity to carry out additional expenditure in such a way that we can keep the deficit target. In this spirit, we have therefore also prepared next year's draft budget law, which, I think, responds to the challenges facing us, whether those are negative real economic or money market processes that may come from the European Union or the world economy. I trust that this budget will respond to the challenges facing us in the demographic field, which can address the problems of protecting the country. Of course, we have a lot of work to do, but I think that with the adoption of the budget, we can solve at least partially the problems that we have identified. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-27-36	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his very detailed position. At the same time, allow me to thank you specifically for expressing your personal convictions. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches from our representatives. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, Member of the Fidesz Group, will be speaking.
u2018-06-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, on June 13th, the government presented our country's budget for next year in the interest of safe growth. Before I go into detail on the topic which is the main line of my speech, namely the situation of the world of domestic businesses in this regard, allow me to briefly reflect on the speaker's speech. Unfortunately, the fact is that he has not changed the usual image of the last eight years, it seems that neither is the fact of the outcome of the April election. In other words, the previous practice that the government, together with the ruling parties, sees a completely different reality in Hungary than that which, in connection with the opposition representatives' speech, appears before us here as a vision. In a very simple way, perhaps all Hungarian compatriots can compare the two images of whether it is true that we live here in Hungary, which has come to the brink of falling, breaking apart, and perhaps not even worth tomorrow, or whether it is the reality that it is the image of a country that is moving one step at a time, building day at a time, moving year at a time, which, by the way, appreciates, wants to work and is able to do what is real. Whether it is normal for the government and the governing parties and the opposition to see the future so differently, everyone should judge for themselves and also judge what country is really around us, whether we see it building up and beautiful, although there is much to do, or whether it is the image of a country that is standing still. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] We are convinced that the budget we have just submitted for the past eight years will continue to work in the right direction. Of course, it is not necessarily our duty to always confront our opposition representatives with the only absolute standard shown by an election result, and which supports the fact that of the two visions that the country is being built or broken down, the vast majority of people still see a building country around them. He has commissioned both the ruling parties and the government itself to continue this further journey. This is reflected in the budget. But that was not always the case, it is also remembered not only by our fellow Members, but probably also by the country. We cannot stress it, because a budget is part of a process, a mirror of the past and a vision of the future, that if we remember, eight years ago, the country really was in a completely different picture, in an economic situation that was not comparable to this one. Indeed, it would be very simple, but perhaps it is fitting that several of my fellow Members have already stressed here, even to bring the comparison with Greece to Parliament. We see that Hungary was in a situation similar to Greece in 2009-2010, thanks to the economic policy of former socialist governments. The new government, which was founded after 2010, has chosen a radically different economic policy, rather than being advised by the European Union or by large financial investors, and if today we compare the development of the last eight years with that of Greece, then I think that everything is pointing to us in the direction that we need to continue with the economic policy of the last eight years, since Hungary has made significant progress over the last eight years. While we may have read in the days that Greece is being removed from the ventilator that was put on at the same time as Hungary was to be put on it. Compared to the fact that most of the indicators of the Hungarian economy have been 4-5, some indicators have indicated that Hungary has been over the economic crisis for 6 years. The civilian government, which took office in 2010, set the transition of the aid-based economy to a work-based economy as a priority, which, as a result of joint results and efforts, has indeed made the expected progress. The stable economic situation in Hungary, the competitiveness of the economy, the reduction of public debt, and not least the fact that Hungary can today be one of Europe's best performing countries. As I have indicated, I would essentially like to analyse the 2019 budget from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it is important to say that the country's budget for the following year is always of crucial importance in the life and functioning of a business. At least from the point of view of how stable and predictable it is, because if an undertaking wants to implement its plans, it must not be based on a specific moment, but on processes and trends. Unfortunately, a number of budgets were made before 2010, which did not ensure this stability and predictability for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. However, the right business environment and predictability are driving businesses to further progress, so it can be said that this requirement is also underpinned by the budget that is now being submitted. Why can we say that the winners of the current budget and tax laws are entrepreneurs? Allow me to give you three examples. The multi-annual wage agreement with entrepreneurs concluded in 2016 will allow for further reductions in labour taxation next year, so that we can take further steps towards full employment. As regards the results, it is worth noting that there are 750 thousand more people working in Hungary today than in 2010. Not in the same way, in view of the circumstances, as in the case of socialist governments, when workers' contributions were increased, labour market contributions were imposed, and even pension workers could be subject to the levy. [[14.00]] The simplification and transparency of the tax system is also essentially in the interest of businesses. In this context, the rate of the social contribution tax is expected to fall by another 2 percentage points to 17.5 per cent next year, depending on the evolution of real earnings. It is important that the new legislation also covers income that has previously been called a health contribution, so that this tax is essentially abolished. This is also in sharp contrast with the tax policy of the governments before 2010, when in Hungary it was almost everyday that taxes, tax rates and rushes are changing even in the course of the year, and the number of taxes is not decreasing, but is increasing, and their rate is also rising, not as it is now. And let me give you one more example, specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, also by transforming the kiva that has been developed over the past eight years. Next year's tax system will be available up to HUF 1 billion in revenue, which we hope will simplify the tax process for thousands or even tens of thousands of companies. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] The tax reduction policy of the Hungarian Government started in 2010 will therefore continue in 2019. A proportionate tax system remains an important element, and I think that the principle of making more money is an acceptable principle for all Hungarian citizens, along which the budget is organised. Thus, the tax burden on work will be reduced and businesses will increase and, not least, families will benefit. It is also important to bring here, when analysing the budget, that we want to continue to use development resources in our country in a targeted and effective way along the budget. This means that 60 percent of the amount available will be used to increase employment and competitiveness. This will significantly help the economy to grow, we hope, help investment, and indeed increase our competitiveness through employment growth. In addition to EU funds, an area of economic development is worth mentioning: perhaps here the objective that the government has previously set in relation to the Irinyi Plan, i.e. the industrial strategy objective that has set the target of at least 30% of domestic industry's GDP by 2020, is essential for this to be supported directly by businesses in sectors identified as priority sectors. This is necessary because it is those companies that are able to enter the international market that are able to appear in market segments that ensure the country's long-term competitiveness. Let me add that the most important thing for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is, in addition to the stability and the existence of resources, to ensure that consumption is properly expanded. Here, Minister, in his exposé, it has also been said that, in a very welcome way, domestic consumption has been steadily increasing in Hungary for fifty or a few months, since this internal consumption is ultimately the market for domestic businesses. As long as there is internal consumption, while families can take more home thanks to the budget and the tax system, they will spend more than domestic businesses. This resource is available to businesses, which can generate profits, increase efficiency, increase employment. So it is not only for self-serving, although it could also be for self-serving support for families, but through the strengthening of the market, through the strengthening of internal consumption, it also means the future and expansion for all small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Analyzing next year's budget, there is therefore no doubt that the government remains committed to sustaining economic growth, reducing the ratio of public debt and preserving the stability of public finances. Of course, it is not once again in a thank-you relationship with the budgetary policy of the former socialist governments, which, in the spirit of the stability of public finances, was synonymous with continuous tax increases and the imposition of new taxes. I think that the results of economic policy measures in recent years are now indisputable. Economic growth is above the EU average, public debt is constantly declining year after year, while the general government deficit meets the European criteria. This is in stark contrast to the economic situation before 2010. That is why we can certainly support this budget, and we can say that once again for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, this budget is the best condition for stability and for certain growth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-27-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, it would be good to put some things in order, because we are likely to have the same or even stronger critical remarks about the Balliberal Governments and the budget they have prepared, as do you, my honourable members of the Government. But it's 2018. We're arguing about the 2019 budget, pointing it back for nearly a decade, or even slowly for a decade and a half, isn't that the right thing to do, and you would have liked to have them accounted for anyway? ! So you don't have to troll around in a budget debate, but if there's so much momentum, why didn't you just count the people responsible for Balliberal governments between 2010 and 2014? They didn't do anything to do that, they failed completely. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that between 2010 and 2015, they had a two-thirds mandate for five years, almost for five days. Now, for the third time, they have won the elections by two thirds, they have to measure themselves to their two-thirds potential, and we are not trying to compare themselves with the Balliberian governments, because between the two approaches, I do not think there is any need to explain the difference. Yet you are constantly doing this feedback before 2010, which, as time goes by, suggests an increasingly weakening argument system and a weakness despite their two-thirds mandate. Although I am not an economist, honourable Secretary of State, I would argue with some of your statements, even with regard to public debt. I think that we are not as good in the sovereign debt defence war as you are trying to prove, because according to 76 per cent of the debt-to-GDP ratio or another calculation, the government debt above 80 per cent, about 83 per cent, is mainly not too steely in the light of the fact that the share of the HUF 3000 billion of the private pension fund assets that have been stolen is someday we will find out what proportion of debt cuts have been pumped into, and yet this debt has been regenerating. No wonder it doesn't look good, anyway, it's an international loan shark that you can never come out of. Just as another form of our legal loan shark, the status of foreign exchange credentials, the current situation of foreign exchange-based credentials, Mr. Secretary of State, is not as good as you have outlined. Although I generally felt in your reply that Hungary is somewhere between Switzerland and Kuwait, so it outlined such an artificially generated dream world, which may exist in your imagination, and it may exist in certain districts of Budapest... of course, the paper, of course, is easy to cure the most serious illness in laboratory conditions, only in reality, in hospitals, patients, flesh and blood people are difficult to cure. The same difference between theoretical calculation and practice. Mr. Secretary, I'll give you another interesting series of data. The Hungarian average salary is approximately HUF 200,000 net. Let's say this is 10-20 percent higher in Budapest. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is the lowest, net, 138 thousand forints, but when I say that, if a sabolcs man heard this, he would ask, "Where is that net 100 thousand or where is that 90 thousand forints net, because many people don't even earn that much, many people earn up to 52 thousand forints. [[14.10]] On average, it can therefore be said that the situation is not so bad, although I note that in terms of current housing costs, food costs, child-rearing costs, even 200 thousand forints is not much, let alone 138 thousand forints; or that by the time the 100 thousand forints is enough, please explain it to a Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county employee, Honourable Secretary of State. Possibly... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Of course, statistically, of course. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The branch of science is statistics...]] The other very important question before I go to constituency problems... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Press the button and answer it like that. In one region of the country most affected by unemployment, in general in the North Plain region, especially in our county, there on the eastern end, unemployment is the most severe labour shortage, which, in particular, affects agriculture and partly the construction sector. This is also closely linked to the current organisation of public work, the current state of public work. Before you try to misinterpret my words, I'm not saying there's no need for community service. It's not that Jobbik is against community service. However, the current system of public work should be changed, as it is nonsense that there are hundreds of people in a settlement of five thousand inhabitants, such as, say, in Csenger on public work, Mr. Secretary of State, while local entrepreneurs, whether they are construction contractors or small and medium-sized family farms, are in a labour shortage and, where appropriate, have to bring in labour from tens or hundreds of kilometres. It's completely incomprehensible. As regards the time constraints, I have to move a little more rapidly on the problems of the constituency, here I have presented three major infrastructure proposals concerning investments in health and other infrastructure. Two out of the three demand a Prime Minister's promise, related to a former Prime Minister's promise. I'd say that in ascending order. Please pay attention, and I would ask my fellow Members in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County to support these proposals, so that not only the hospital in Kisvárda should be developed, the people in Kisvárda deserve it - but to develop the hospital in Mátészalka a certain 750 million forints that would be sufficient for the replacement of ultrasound and X-ray machines, the replacement of the outdated CT equipment, the purchase of an MR machine, please give it to them, because as the people in the more developed region of the country deserve it, the people in Szatmár deserve an equal chance of healing, and the same testing opportunity on the spot, without hundreds of kilometers of travel. Now, the two Prime Minister's promises, maybe three and a half minutes. One of the smaller volumes was promised by Viktor Orbán in Csenger on 4 May 2017 at the inauguration of the district school in the morning, before the construction of the rain, namely the prison in Ring. He said, literally, that, as he and the government have always been able to count on the people in the area, people can count on the Fidesz government and Viktor Orbán, and that the Bv Institute in Bell will certainly be built. Now, that's a plan gone up in smoke for now. At the planned location of the prison building, the deer and rabbits are running around at the moment, and the pasture-ploughing area has not lost its ploughing character, of course, from an agricultural point of view it could be a good one, but there is no sign of construction there today, even though the repeated public procurement procedure has been successful. We would need about 11-12 billion forints at least to build this bv institution, but nationwide it was shut down according to our information. Disprove him. I would be very happy if I were wrong, by the way, if I were wrong, and I could ask Mr Kontra, State Secretary, what is the situation here. 250 people were promised jobs three years ago. At least 80 people left their former jobs in the hope of a career. According to my information, they are now being recommended to move from Chenger to, say, Sopronkőhida, the Bv Institute there. Thank you so much for this kind of career. [[Lajos Korózs: It's close!]] Of course, they were sent next door right away, sent from one of the easternmost cities of the country to the western border. I don't know if you guys had been given job offers or job opportunities at the time, I wonder what they would have said. By the way, the commanding officer in charge of recruitment has been transferred to Nyíregyháza. So it looks like nothing's gonna happen. They promised the people, the bells and the people in the area this, until they, say, voted for Fidesz, and then something, it wasn't that important for you to think on the basis of. And an evergreen hit that is promised to the area by a quarter of a century, and actually affects not only the area of Satmar, but also a significant part of the county, although we are obviously directly involved in the M49 bypass. My third motion is to build this. There have been many promises made in this regard. I'd like to give you some specific data here. Orbán first promised this in late autumn 2016, in the wake of the Romanian election campaign. Then the second promise was also made at the inauguration of the ominous school on 4 May 2017 that the construction of this was to begin. We know of such things, that planning, impact studies and the acquisition of permits are underway, but one metre of road has not yet been built, although according to the data of a 2006 pub count, 10 324 vehicles have passed 24 hours in the three thousand settlements. In 2010, this figure was already around 16,000, and since then this figure has only increased, so the figures have deteriorated in this sense. Both the Bingersima border traffic and the Tiszabec border traffic passes through a small part of Győrtelek, in the entire area of Kosord and Mátészalka, there is a huge risk of accidents, road safety is in very poor condition, the condition of the interior property has deteriorated significantly, the walls have cracked, the roads are narrow, the roads are depressed, and commercial and economic considerations would also justify the need for this construction. So I would ask you very nicely to support both the development of the hospital in Mátészalka and the construction of the Bv Institute in Ring and the construction of the M49 bypass road, because this is a county interest that is in excess of the political debates. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Földi, KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-27-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The stakes of the April elections were, in addition to our security and development, a stable and predictable budget, which we can also take note of, since the Fidesz-KDNP government has placed on the table the draft that is characterised by predictability and growth. I am convinced that it is easy to identify with the draft budget for 2019. Take a few examples to support my statement. Hungary's budget for next year is characterised by safe growth. In the body of today's Europe, a migration siege, we can say without exaggerating that we Hungarians operate the necessary organs together with the Visegrad Four. It cannot be said enough that we first recognized the danger of migration and said it first, and now one of our basic credoes is that there is no prosperity without security. The successful economic policy and proven good strategic decisions of the past eight years will allow us to ease the burden of the Hungarian people by further tax cuts in the future, as well as by extending the family support system, we have reason to trust that more children will be born in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, Most of us here in this room are mother, father or grandfather almost five times, so when we decide to build a family-friendly Hungary, my heart is pounding, and I welcome the government's measures that are committed to encouraging childbearing, extending support for families raising children, and improving the quality of life of families. Here, let me give you concrete examples of my own environment. One of my colleagues does not pay taxes with three children, for example, because they do not have to, because it is not necessary on the basis of his income; or how much success the free textbook has had in schools, in the school where I taught for a long time; or women can retire with 40 years of service, so how much they can help young people, their children, their grandchildren. So I think we can say that with these measures Hungarian families will receive exemplary support in the European context as well. In addition, as a representative of the three-thirds government, the parliament elected by the two-thirds majority points out with all my heart the strategic objective, ambition, which aims to enable every Hungarian person who wants and can and is worth working at home in Hungary. So it's no less than reaching full employment. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak a little bit about sports and talk about the importance of sport through my own city, Cegléd. In addition to the visual team sports in the first and second classes, our city is also successful in the field of martial arts. In the past Olympics, the athletes in Cegléd performed excellently, we have a long history of sport, present and hope, compared to the size of the city. The primary objective of sports facilities provided or under way in the city, which may be planned, is not to serve the top sport, but also to provide supplies as a place for everyday physical education and daily exercise. The best example of this is a completely renovated urban swimming pool. The success of Cegléd athletes beyond the excellent teamwork and the perseverance of a determined, impossible, unknowing heart of athletes is something we politicians have decided to expect sport as a strategic sector and look at it that way. I believe that the most important objective of the sport sector is to turn Hungary from a sports nation to a sports nation. This will, of course, focus attention on further improving the health status of the population and increasing the number of regular athletes, which will have a direct effect in the long term of reducing health expenditure. I believe that every HUF spent on sports, sports development and sporting events is a net profit, whose primary beneficiaries are unlikely to be us, but for future generations, our grandchildren, surely. I consider the educational and gym programme, which started in 2014, to be of particular importance, and I hope that in the coming years more institutions will be able to access such facilities. I think it is very important that in 2009, budget support will become a flagship international sporting event in the country, which will take the good news of our country, since the world competitions held in previous years were exemplary, exemplary and have received very positive criticism both internationally and at home. In addition, the budget provides funding for support for recruitment programmes and for the development of academic systems. Sports programmes, student and higher education sports, and the promotion of sports for people with disabilities, as well as for disadvantaged social groups, are also a key role in the field of sport. Resources can be found in the draft budget for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the draft budget for 2019 serves well the objectives set out by the government and Parliament in 2010 and that I recommend the draft budget to the House for adoption. I hope this will happen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, in the debate, is giving up its additional parliamentary term for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. [[Delight and applause in the opposition benches.]] Thank you for your opinion. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Dear Parliament, On behalf of all of us, I welcome our dear guests from the Vácegres residence, who are seated in the gallery. Welcome. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-27-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I begin my specific speech, which concerns the budget for the defence portfolio and the area, let me read a news report here at the time of the budget hearing, because I think it is a rather timely news, given that this morning the Government, the State Audit Office, the Fiscal Council and everyone has said how well this budget is and everything is great. I'd like to tell you what the article is called: "The Forint is broken, the exchange rate is approaching a historic low point. On Wednesday, the forint weakened near the historic low against the euro in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. The euro was registered at HUF 327.32. This is only worth noting to you because if this continues, this budget should be thrown out, withdrawn, and probably submitted to Parliament in September before the final vote on the budget. If they want to comply with their own laws, because the Fiscal Council cannot have room for manoeuvre in this regard. If the budget is accounted for at this level, then it cannot be approved by the Fiscal Council, and you know it, and this decision will be ahead of us in the next few days. Dear Parliament, There is a huge gap between government propaganda and reality in almost all areas of life. This is particularly true with regard to the Hungarian Defence Forces. While Fidesz speaks of nothing but the protection of the country, one of the biggest losers of Viktor Orbán's government since 2010 was the Hungarian Defence Office. In the 2010-14 government cycle, a huge withdrawal of funds was made, and the percentage of defence expenditure was reduced to less than 1 per cent and 0.7 per cent to barely reaching. The shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been unprecedented, and no major weapon system has been acquired in seven years, while the depreciation of equipment is increasingly undermining the ability of the assets to operate. Although a well-functioning reserve system is needed, its structure and enormous expansion of defence capabilities did not substantially improve, while the modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the uploading of the professional personnel of the forces were not sufficient. Following such precedents, they are trying to present a slow increase in defence spending in 2016 as a huge turnaround and a worldwide victory. However, this is hardly enough for damage relief, let alone for defence modernisation. The additional resources provided a major part of the extra salary increase which would otherwise be necessary due to previous leasing freezes and the reduction in the dramatic shortage of staff. In addition, the HUF 80 billion expansion planned for 2019 is obviously insufficient to achieve substantial organisational and military technical modernisation. This is shown by the fact that, despite the increase in resources, the increase in accumulation costs is far from as spectacular and that, in the light of previous constraints, it is not even considered sufficient. For example, in the light of the helicopter capabilities development plans that have been promised since 2013, which we remember, Csaba Hende said could be launched at the touch of a button in 2014, the HUF 8 billion budget for the development of the air force seems completely frivolous. It is memorable that in 2012 one of the biggest restrictions in the history of the Government of Viktor Orbán was implemented at the Hungarian Defence Office. After sending the Hungarian Defence Forces to the ground, they committed themselves in a government decision to increase defence spending by 0.1 percent of GDP annually from 2016. Then, in recent years, great promises and vows have come to speed up this pace, and by 2024 defence spending will reach 2 percent of GDP. What are we looking at? This year as well as next year, the share of defence expenditure in GDP is only growing by 0.1 percent. In short, only the mandatory minimum previously agreed is included in the draft budget for next year, with protection at the level of propaganda as an absolute priority and supposedly the economy is soaring. [[14.30]] When does the government plan to make a sound of their promises, if not now? In the future, even according to the government, there is an economic crisis to be prepared, as the Minister said in the keynote speech, Hungary's support for the EU is also falling, so the overall fiscal margin is not expected to improve. In view of all of this, how can the government only increase the share of funding to a minimum as decided in 2012? So how do you plan to achieve the 2 percent ratio required by the Government Decision by 2024? At least, according to math, that's not gonna work out. Despite the victory reports, it is clear that the Minister for Defence is not proud of this budget and is reluctant to accept it. It can hardly be explained by the fact that there has never been so little concrete, so little data contained in the defence budget. After 2010, Csaba Hende first extracted public figures from the Budget and Accountancy Act, but by now we have reached the point that a comprehensive presentation of personal, material and accumulation expenses at chapter level is missing from the explanatory statement, which can be obtained from the budget of individual addresses by interested citizens. It is typical of the chapter justification that, unlike in previous years, it does not even record the proportion of personal benefits, expenditure in rem, and expenditure on accumulation, considered to be an important indicator. Unlike in previous years, the chapter justification also does not mention running development programmes. The continuous reference basis is the Zrínyi 2026 program, but it is not clear what purpose the sources appearing under this fantasy name actually serve. HM is already making it a tradition to use some kind of fantasy name for development programs, as if it were a new, large-scale, multi-annual conscious development program. It used to be the Military Plan, in the 2017 budget they talked about programs running under the HSZP of the Defence Policy Programme. The new magic word for the 2018 budget is the Zrínyi 2026 program. In the 2019 budget, the author has reached the point that, where he provides any additional resources, he refers only to Zrínyi 2026 at the point of explanation, and that includes anything. The chapter justifications for the stipending, the already running development programmes and any possible improvements have arrived. According to the justification, Zrínyi 2026 has 64 billion HUF available for its implementation. What they are planning to spend so much money on is still unclear. Of course, my fellow Members should think that the members of the Defence and Police Committee will have a greater view of this. If that's what they think, they're wrong. At a closed meeting of the Defence and Police Committee held in 2017, the Ministry of Defence was only able to present an extremely poor presentation as Zrínyi 2026 programme, which lacked strategic objectives and priorities. Nor can the actual impact of the development of a thousand people in the budget proposal be seen from the proposal. It is not clear in which areas the development of the workforce is planned, in what proportion it affects the number of soldiers, and the rest. The question, for example, is whether the development of the reserve system will also appear in this staff. The main question, therefore, is not clear from the figures whether, in terms of numbers, the Hungarian Defence Forces are closer or further away to a more professional, more modern force. Unfortunately, due to the weight of the propaganda elements and the over-dimensionalisation of the reserve system, we cannot have too many illusions about the answer. Overall, therefore, the lack of transparency in the 2019 budget is now so high that it cannot be voted by a responsible Member. However, what can be seen from it does not give rise to too much satisfaction. Although some elements, such as continuing the stipending of soldiers or aiming to reduce the shortage of staff, are welcome, this budget is more stagnation than the budget of moving forward for the Hungarian Defence Office. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-27-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-27-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to confirm that I believe that the 2019 budget is a budget for secure growth, and that if we focus our attention only on education, science or research and look at these chapters, then the figures there clearly support this. This is due to financial stability and sustained economic growth resulting from forward planning. In order to carry out public education tasks, there is some more money, a budget of 15 billion. Compared to the support appropriations of 18, we are experiencing an increase of roughly 6 percent, and the growing items include elements such as additional increases in teacher careers and qualification, about HUF 7.1 billion, or the surplus due to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which is 7.6 billion, but increases in the Klebelsberg Scholarship Programme or Unlimited! The extra funding for the programme will also increase, and let us not forget that the state will continue to provide textbooks free of charge, which is once again a small item. The recovery economy needs a continuous and growing supply of skilled labour, and it is therefore important to further strengthen the functioning of vocational training centres, to broaden the training and retraining supply of vocational training institutions, to expand and to further increase employment. To this end, cooperation between vocational training institutions and economic operators should be further strengthened in order to adapt more flexibly to changes in the labour market and to ensure the effective functioning of the vocational training institution system. The appropriations for adult education in vocational training centres in 2019 represent a HUF 4.3 billion surplus compared to the current one, and overall this framework is a HUF 12.3 billion item, and this would be a top-up fund, if necessary. Vocational training and adult training grants are included in the chapter of the National Employment Fund for the basic part of training with an amount of 31.9 billion, which, I think, is quite remarkable and impressive. This appropriation provides funding for the Szabóky Adolf Vocational Training Scholarship, with a budget of EUR 9 billion; the aim of the study scholarship is to encourage those who opt for the skills gap and to reduce the drop-out, which will allow for 10-15 thousand forints of scholarship per month per student and, at the same time, training to catch up with those who produce a low study average. The number of students who received such a scholarship was 35 990 in the academic year 2016 and so it can be seen that this is a very serious number. But the Vocational Training Bridge program is also included, here we can meet 8-10 thousand HUF/month scholarships, which require roughly 1 billion HUF. Companies have a significant interest in supporting investment-enhancing training programmes and workshop development. Supports for the development of workshops, which can be granted through individual ministerial decisions, also generate a large number of new student contracts, which is therefore a direction that is worth continuing. In 2019 the funding needs are 8 billion projects, currently running 45, and there are negotiations with 41 others. The objective of higher education is to further improve the competitiveness of the sector by 2019, to better address the needs of the economy and the labour market, to increase technical, IT and scientific training, and to increase the weight of teacher training. Higher education also carries out research, development and innovation tasks in addition to training and education, which serve the task of providing talent and training. The instrument for achieving these goals is the promotion of talented students, doctoral candidates, teachers, researchers and the funding of institutions on the basis of tasks and quality. In addition to their educational and research activities, higher education institutions play an important role in and have a significant impact on their narrower and wider areas. This is the so-called third mission; it includes both an indirect direct economic role and a cultural function. The funding of higher education institutions' investments in the following year shows a surplus of HUF 19.4 billion, and the Stipendium Hungaricum programme also increases, the funding of higher education courses or the funding of the PhD students' training and scholarship framework will also be increased, as will the students' social scholarship, which was based on the agreement with HÖOK. Non-state higher education institutions can count on a surplus of around 7.7 billion in 2019. In the case of higher education, the support for 2019 is around 11,1 percent higher than that of this year. [[14.40]] Science, research, innovation is also an important field. Following the April 2018 election, the new civilian government, established with the establishment of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, established an organisation responsible for the uniform management of Hungarian science policy. This is not without precedent, because the government has already started to set up a system of so-called thematic excellence grants for higher education institutions with the aim of coordinating their research in an inter- and multidisciplinary manner, thereby strengthening domestic innovation, cooperation with companies and economic engagements. This has resulted in a significant increase in higher education institutions' own income from the market. Based on the experience gained so far, the strategic coordination at the level of higher education institutions, broken down into institutions, can better ensure that the entire higher education system is engaged in R &amp; D &amp; I, i.e. R &amp; D innovation, its effective functioning, and its ability to generate increasingly significant own revenue beyond the public budget. The ability to raise capital already visible at universities was essentially due to the scientific coordination activities of the State Secretariat for Higher Education, when state budget research and innovation resources were distributed between EMMI, the National Office for Research, Development and Innovation under the Prime Minister's Office and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. At the same time, research results in higher education, cooperation with the corporate sector, indicate that it is useful and necessary to manage Hungarian science policy in a coherent way. Consequently, it is useful and necessary that budget support to finance the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation tasks be planned in one place at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, i.e. HUF 29.1 billion of higher education institutions for R &amp; D, HUF 12.7 billion of OTKA and the research activities of the institutions of the academic research network can therefore join the Hungarian R &amp; D &amp; I for a highly important policy purpose. In the initial 2019 expenditure allocation, the HUF 20.1 billion of the HUF 37.2 billion budget of the research institutes and supported research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is named at the ITM chapter. This fact has become a political hysteria in recent weeks, as has the introduction of the Chancellor's system in higher education. Even then, the opposition was concerned about freedom of science and research, but they did not mention that research and development were at some point made impossible by the constraints of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, they pushed higher education into serious debts, and made the operation of academic research institutions saver. Thanks to the chancellors, universities today have money in their accounts, and they're not rolling debt in front of you. Now the opposition fears the independence of the Academy and the freedom of science. Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to remember that those who shed crocodile tears today because of a technical amendment of a budgetary nature, that the funding of the research network of the Academy of Sciences is named at two chapters, even ten years ago they wanted to eliminate the Hungarian Academy of Sciences itself. On 29 April 2005, János Kóka, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Gyurcsány Government, said that it was unnecessary to finance the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that did not bring real added value to society. I quote the words of the liberal minister János Kóka at the time; the quote follows:. The areas of the MTA that do not serve competitiveness directly must be made equal to the ground, because they produce only dusty documents. Interestingly, István Hiller and Zsolt Gréczy did not object to this at the time, nor did any left-wing MEP who is still sitting in Parliament. The MSZP-SZDSZ government questioned the validity of the MTA. The part of the 2019 draft budget concerning the Academy does not call into question the existence of the Academy of Sciences, but also wants to strengthen it through financial means. Overall, the resources allocated to MTA increase from 60.8 billion to 64.1 billion in 2019, so no matter how I look at it, this means an increase in resources of about 5.4 percent. At the same time, in the field of basic research and the majority of academic research institutions, which are not directly exploitable economically, it is important that international embeddedness is strengthened, it is important to define areas in which critical mass is available in Hungary, both in research numbers and in research results. At present, according to scientific analyses, Hungarian research is active in a number of areas, which must be supported and maintained in terms of freedom of research, but its performance is considered average, apart from some case-by-case exceptions. Therefore, by supporting and respecting individual research freedom and initiatives, the aim is to identify certain priority research areas and to support existing ones, along the lines of the existing national brain research programme. These programmes should always be part of the critical mass in the field of researchers, the expected significant international research results, and, where possible, even economic recovery. Contrary to the political statements which the left-wing media and the opposition hysterized, which are not due to reality, the 2019 budget is not that the Hungarian state would take over, terminate or relocate the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or even want to interfere with their operation and life. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences continues to operate its own institutions, and it is up to you to decide how to break down its resources for projects, research institutes and researchers in each area. With some changes to the funding system, we would like only to increase the relatively low innovation capacity so far. It is necessary to identify the areas of research that should be prioritised when allocating resources. To do this, a working group of scientists, academics and university rectors, together with the Academy of Sciences, must be set up. Academician Gábor Náray-Szabó wrote, and I quote: "Everyone can search for what they want, but the necessary resources must be provided by someone, the state, the actors of the economy or private people. There's no reference to a research source. The funder's heart has the right not to finance the topics he likes, the less-like ones he likes, and those he doesn't like at all. This is how it works all over the world, from the United States to Germany and Britain to India or China. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, the part of the 2019 budget proposal concerning the Academy of Sciences is not about something that we do not want to finance, or something that needs to be cut off, but only about the fact that R &amp; D &amp; I budgetary resources and grants will be integrated into the uniform coordination of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The fact that certain sources of research and innovation are in one of the government chapters does not undermine the freedom of research and science. Allow me to quote two examples to support this. As part of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, OTKA became part of a government office, which took place years earlier and was under the Prime Minister's Office. Back then, many researchers, with arguments in the current argument system, strongly protested against it, ending the freedom of science and so on. [[14.50]] Well, the practice of recent years has shown that the OTA's tender system, its independent and objective system of criticism, has not been compromised, and that OTKA's resources have even increased significantly from 7 billion to 12.7 billion. Another example: Between 2015-17 the Hungarian Academy of Sciences received HUF 58 billion for research other than the National Research, Development and Innovation Office under the Prime Minister's Office, i.e. nearly three times the amount currently included in the ITM chapter. When this not insignificant source was received by the Academy, no one objected to the fact that it was directly from a government unit under a ministry and related to specific research areas. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the 2019 budget shows an increase in resources, both in the fields of public education, vocational training, higher education, research and science, which is to be welcomed and supported. I hope it will be the same when we vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-27-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, Democratic Coalition. You have the floor.
u2018-06-27-47	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are many ways in which the representative ladies and gentlemen have spoken about the Hungarian budget for next year, let me take a few points. When we talk about a budget, I think we should ask ourselves if this budget is stable. The question should be asked whether the budget is pro-growth not only in terms of the growth of the Hungarian economy, but also of whether it promotes the growth of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian families, and whether it promotes the approach that I think we, at least here, in the Democratic Coalition and on the opposition side, definitely consider desirable, so the approach to the European standard of living. The question should be asked whether it brings up the most defenseless layers and whether there are messages that are important to Hungarians, messages that tell Hungarian citizens that, yes, in these areas, you are important to the government; last but not least, whether the Hungarian national interest will appear in it. If we look at the issue of stability, my fellow Members have already talked about the euro exchange rate, I left this morning, it was 326 forints, as we have already heard, 327 forints, and the budget debate is not over yet, who knows what will happen tonight. Similarly, inflation has been mentioned, in which the government talks about 2.7 percent inflation, the government led by Fidesz talks about 2.7 percent, while the Hungarian National Bank ruled by Fidesz talks about inflation above 3 percent in its own prognosis. László Varju mentioned in his speech the missing 350 billion forints, which should be managed somehow. Today's news is that although the budget itself talks about the need to increase the number of Hungarian defences, for example, and this is planned, it is just now reported that the number stop was announced in the public sector, despite the fact that the trade unions already claim that there is a 10 percent shortage in this sphere. So it's very difficult to call this budget stable. Does it bring us closer to Europe? I know that you do not really like the declining West and Europe, but the truth is that today it is still a reference, at least for the European-minded democrats, that the world is not only in terms of Christian culture, but also in terms of living standards in Europe. At the beginning of the year, we listened, of course, to Mihály Varga's campaign that a single-digit tax rate could soon be possible if there is a stable and growing economy and an improving labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, this is self-religion, it is a confession to the fact that there is no stable and growing economy, there is no improving labour market, because there will also be two figures of personal income tax next year. Let's talk about another tax, which I think is crucial in the life of Hungarians, and this is the 27 percent VAT. Yeah, I know, and I appreciate the fact that there are basic foods whose VAT is falling, but obviously you don't go to the store. If they went to the store, they would see that this decrease in VAT does not appear at the price of any of the goods, even in the case of discount products. I know that in recent years, a lot of efforts have been made to lower these prices, and I must tell you that, unfortunately, we have failed. Of course, there is a step back on these issues, there is a step backwards from the European standard of living for all Hungarians who have stayed home. Those who have left the country may have made progress. Does it catch up with certain social groups? I think this is a very important issue for the budget. It doesn't catch me up at all, it actually breaks me down. We've seen it, we've talked about it a lot over the past few years, that the cafeteria system is basically going out. This will affect all Hungarian workers. This in itself is a step backwards for those who have sought work and found work in Hungary in recent years will be a huge loss in their pockets. Of course, the elimination of the tax relief for those who are about to retire does not help to catch up in Hungarian society. You may or may not be putting these people in a ditch. It's not surprising that you have an attitude towards retirement. I would like to remind you that in the case of a service pension, it is this government, this Fidesz government, which has essentially ignored the soldiers, policemen, firefighters, and has abolished the service pension, turned it into a service contribution, as if degraded the work of these people. I find it quite outrageous that those who have sworn to protect the country at the cost of their lives or risk their lives have been treated like this on your part. Of course, in terms of catching up from this budget, because not only such catching up must be considered, but also in terms of the challenges of the future, it is not apparent that this government will start or start catching up with the Hungarian economy on challenges such as automation. I have also silenced the speeches and statements by the government, and I am quite surprised that you consider government before 2010 as a benchmark, not your own eight years. I think we should work on this around their own house, because eight years has been exactly enough, and now we're in the ninth year to change certain processes, so it's not very successful. Then let us finally look at the question of what this budget says to the Hungarians. He said to the Hungarians that the future of Hungarian students, the future of Hungarian education, is not important. While freedom of education, money spent on education in Europe is the basis of society, it is the basis for economic growth, it is not important for the current Fidesz government. While it is possible to heal in Europe, for the Hungarian government, healthcare is not important for the Fidesz government, this is what it says to Hungarian citizens. As we have already silenced here in a previous speech that it is actually only a technical issue in relation to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, I think they have sent a pretty clear message to the Hungarian scientific world that it is not important for you, and I often see that science and scientific curiosity and scientific research are a disturbing factor. What do they say in the budget, though? What's important? What do they say to the Hungarian citizens? That it is important to continue Goebbels propaganda, because this is what the extra cost comes to, and, of course, it is important for the Prime Minister's hobby, football, because there will always be budgetary resources for this, as long as you are in government, we hope, not for that long. Last but not least, we need to talk about the Hungarian national interest, because I think that it needs to revisit the Hungarian budget, and in principle I think that in the creation of all important laws or almost all laws, those who write these laws, what is the Hungarian national interest. You have proved in recent days that the Hungarian national interest in you often coincides with the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, Árpád Habony, Viktor Orbán and his buddy, friend and family circle. I think we need to think a little bit more about this. They talk a lot about safety. They always talk about how important it is to ensure that Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, is safe. When it comes to safety, there are several types of security. The first is the matter of legal certainty, in which you have played your part many times over the past few years, it is enough to think only of your granite-solid basic law that, in the context of the budget, we have not once experienced the debate in this House and in the committees, and then, towards the end of the year, the government came and, with all sorts of amendments, simply changed the budget numbers and distributed additional funds. So you often feel that, of course, we are discussing the budget for 30 hours, it is not yet the first of July, but we are debating next year's budget, which you will then be able to reschedule at the end of the year if you think you can. [[15.00]] In addition to legal certainty, the issue of life security is obviously very important. It is clear from this budget that there are layers in Hungary that could be the engines of Hungarian development. There will be tens of thousands more leaving Hungary, so I would like to tell you in the interest of the Hungarian national interest that it is not towards the East, not towards Russia, but towards the West. I often listen to statistics where people talk about more coming back than they do. I think you should sit down and review these statistics again, because factually, there is no such thing as what you say. But speaking of security, all we have heard in recent years is how important and outstanding the protection of Hungary's national sovereignty, the protection of Hungarian borders, and how important it is that we have heard the role of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this matter in recent weeks. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The debate on the budget hasn't even started yet, the pro-government representatives have already hacked through the entire potential media spectrum by spending a great deal of money on the Hungarian Defence Office. My fellow bellsman has already told me how much of a lie this is, because in fact, in recent years, between 2011 and 16 you have regularly spent under 1 percent of GDP on the Hungarian Defence Office. According to data, this was 1 percent in 2017, and in 2018 the final figures were around 1.7 percent. Next year, it is planned to spend 1.1 percent, 1.17 percent of GDP on the military. I would like to be precise because so much has been said here, especially the Secretary of State before me, for the last eight years, the period before 2010, perhaps the Secretary of State remembers, because you were part of that process. In 2009 he spent 1.22% of GDP... [[Ferenc Koncz: There was no GDP! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] He spent 1.22 percent of his time on the military, it's the whole year, and at that time, [[Noise.]] Obviously, the Secretary of State doesn't know much about this area, but I do help, during that period there were improvements in Hungary. For example, the development of the papal base airport took place during that period, which is obviously not known by the defense secretary sitting in front of me. But you know, you should know that in December 2014 Csaba Hende, then Minister, spoke about the fact that for HUF 172 billion 30 helicopters will be purchased by the Hungarian Defence Office, in January 2018 Tibor Benkő, then Chief of Staff, said that 40 helicopters would be purchased, and now a new line in the budget of spending HUF 8 billion on the development of the air force. About how many new helicopters can be purchased out of 8 billion forints. Zrínyi 2026 has also been mentioned, which is an important programme because it is based on the protection of the country, the security of Hungarian citizens. What I can tell you is that the Zrinyi 2026 program is like Columbo's wife: no one has ever seen it. The relevant government decision is that the Government has negotiated, accepted and implemented it according to schedule. So much so that I've been searching for the Zrinyi 2026 program in the budget of the defense wallet myself. Imagine that keeping the Gripen fighter planes you bought at the time is also part of this Zrinyi 2026 program. It is therefore apparent that the development that you are talking about does not exist, the HUF 80 billion will be about enough to keep the barracks from falling on the heads of the soldiers; it will not be enough to achieve modernisation in accordance with Hungary's sovereignty. You know very well that there is a need for new helicopters for years, and it would be necessary for years to achieve some kind of airspace protection in this respect. It was your government that wrote to me that they experience almost every day at the border section of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County that foreign aircraft are crossing the border illegally so much about your great border protection - and neither the Hungarian Army nor the Hungarian police are able to respond to these questions. What we see, and we would almost support, is that you want to develop the Hungarian military industry, and I live with the suspicion lawsuit, that this is another area you want to pass on to your friends and kissers. If there are no steps in the military budget to guarantee the security of Hungarian citizens, that it is indeed modern, I do not expect it to be the largest in Central Europe, but a little more modern army, let us see what you are doing, for example, in terms of border protection. What we've seen at the National Defence and Police Committee meetings is that if you bring up the crisis caused by mass immigration, it's definitely the end of handing over some kind of public procurement to one of your buddies. This is what we see again in this budget: 15 billion HUF is on this item. I will now tell the ladies and gentlemen here in this House that most of these will be spent on something that has nothing to do with the security of the Hungarians, but it will certainly help someone. I'm living with the suspicion that the 25 billion-dollar counter-terrorist fight will go exactly the same way. What is most important, and what we have talked about a lot, and I would like to end with this: on cyber security issues, I would not see very much of this government pinching itself. Perhaps it is not a coincidence: you want to take Hungary very far from Europe. You wish to bring Hungary close to the interests of the Russian state. This budget removes Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, from the European world, which is based, for example, on Christian culture, which you so love to talk about. This does not serve Hungarian national interests, which is why the Democratic Coalition does not support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-06-27-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Ferenc Koncz. You have the floor.
u2018-06-27-49	Mr President, Dear House, The 2019 budget presented by the government focuses on maintaining Hungary's security, sustainability, economic growth, support for families and achieving full employment. Over the last decade, left-wing governments have led Hungary into an economic, financial, social, political and moral crisis. I listened with interest to Mrs Vadai, who said that we should not talk about the last eight years while she kept talking about it. [[László Varju: Talk about the last eight years!]] , trying to divide negative GDP. You know, for the first time, I was a Member of Parliament between 98 and 2002, and I remember the shock of 2002 and the subsequent Medgyessy government, whose biggest problem and biggest concern was that the money that the previous Conservative Government, the previous Orbán government, saved was ran out. From these speeches, Bence Tordai, Ágnes Vadai made it clear that our dear social-liberal friends had not forgotten or learned anything. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Left centre!]] Then I remember the period between 2006 and 2010, when I was vice-president of the county assembly, and the news came that János Veres may have said to the 2007 budget: I don't even understand why you are scolding him, perhaps because you don't know the 2008 figures yet. The way I see it, we have wonderfully preserved the abilities of our social-liberal friends in this area. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Left centre!]] Since 2010, however, under the leadership of the civilian government, our country has regained its economic self-determination, stabilised its financial position, kept responsible budget management, kept the public deficit permanently low, put public debt on a declining path and achieved lasting economic growth. In Hungary, we have seen environmental, social and economic development in the last eight years. [[Dr. István Apáti: Now we will lend it to the United States!]] In the field of nature conservation, progress is ongoing year after year, whether in terms of habitat conservation or habitat reconstruction programmes. Environmental and health protection plays an important role in national development and local development. The civil government's economic policy has created the basis for the reduction of the overhead, the predictable, inexpensive and secure energy supply. In addition to continued economic growth, we are experiencing fiscal balance, predictability, increasing economic room for manoeuvre, an increasingly healthy economic structure, the spread of environmentally friendly technologies, and the reduction of emissions. [[15.10]] The 2019 budget ensures that the positive processes and developments of the past years continue to improve the quality of life of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families. My fellow Members have made clear efforts to make the rich believe that they will not take away the money they have promised to the poor. In recent years, we have been talking about launching and continuing investment from significant domestic budgetary resources and providing support for economic growth, which will also significantly help to increase employment. That's what road development is like. According to the government's road development concept adopted in 2016, the total amount of European resources available for road development will be used for driving motorways to the border, for connecting regional centres to the motorway network and for regional development elements. In addition, a total of HUF 1000 billion of domestic budget resources will be provided in seven years. With the construction and development of remaining road connections on motorways, it will be possible to reach any point in the country in 30 minutes, which has an important role to play in the development of rural settlements. The government provides corporate investment aid. The government decided to support the investment of large-scale small and medium-sized enterprises with a potential for growth and expansion on the external market, capable of contributing to the government's wage catch-up objectives, as well as of large-scale small- and medium-sized enterprises, as a result of the planned investment. These companies contribute to the modernisation of the Hungarian economy, to the improvement of its performance, to the use of new environmentally friendly technologies and to the growth of public revenue. The government has established a supplier development programme. The aim of the programme is to connect Hungarian-owned companies with low value added product structures and low profitability to the development, production and productivity enhancement of products with higher added value, in particular with the use of the. Between the 2019 budget appropriations, HUF 0.5 billion is available for the continuation of the supplier development programme as operating expenditure and HUF 2.5 billion as a source accumulation expenditure. Let me say a word or two about the programme of,, Industry, 4.0. Among the appropriations for the 2019 budget, HUF 1.5 billion is allocated to the programme. The programme supports the digitalisation of manufacturing and infocommunication technologies, the service sector based on smart tools. Technological modernisation and efficiency of the construction sector will also be enhanced. Among the appropriations for the 2019 budget, HUF 6 billion is available for this purpose. The government's objective is to support the sustainable development of the construction sector based on modern technology in order to enable the dominant sector of domestic industry to meet the growing demand of customers. The budget is also about tourist development. Tourism is one of the most important sectors with a driving effect, which can contribute to the economic recovery of less developed areas, the preservation and exploitation of natural and cultural values, and the improvement of the living conditions of the population. Among the appropriations for the 2019 budget, HUF 28 billion is available for tourism operations and development purposes, and an additional HUF 56 billion is available as accumulation expenditure. Our budget is also about digital infrastructure development. The government pays particular attention to digital developments, as this is an important factor in the competitiveness of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to support the adoption of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019, as this is the budget for safe growth, the budget for sustainable growth, which serves the further strengthening of Hungary and the further improvement of the quality of life of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-27-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn of the LMP.
u2018-06-27-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House of Parliament, In the agricultural budget planned for almost 206 billion dollars next year, we cannot see any big changes in perspective compared to this year's budget. Unfortunately, the government's priorities remain the same, as is the indifference to the problems of people living in small towns and villages. That's why in the budget, it's more of a talker that's been left out and not what's in it. Continuity is only the empty promises, the further dismantling of the countryside. Rural entrepreneurs and farmers have been left virtually without development resources for the coming years. Small and medium-sized family farmers who are vulnerable to exports, remote markets and buyers will remain dependent on the situation they are facing. The fruit and vegetable sector will continue to suffer from 27 percent VAT, and the intention to boost the dairy sector cannot be seen from this budget. Undivided common land is a major disadvantage for farmers, and the resources for measuring them need to be quadrupled from the existing 2.5 billion, as, despite the promise, the government has barely made any progress since 2010. The source of the farm development programme is also 1.1 billion euros each year as a communication bocret, and the real demand of the Hungarian farm population would be many times more than once a year. The LMP and the New beginning call for a budget for agriculture and rural development, which can be the winners of the country as a whole, i.e. the Hungarian countryside, small towns and villages; one that is suitable for supporting the future for families living outside cities and for the environment. It would be necessary to establish a public land bank. State lands cut down in 2015 and 16 represent a huge loss for small and medium-sized family farmers. The task of the State Land Bank is to buy agricultural land, so that it will have land scattered throughout the country, preferably in all settlements, from which each local resident, every municipality or village community can rent a certain maximum quantity. The landowner state can only manage its land for receiving compensation, but its ownership remains. Fidesz, while considering the land use interests of large-scale farms and oligarchs, ignores the preservation of the viability of individual farmers and local communities and ensuring access to land. A demographic land programme would be needed to optimise conditions for young people who wish to thrive in agriculture and rural small towns. This could be achieved through a national funding programme based on public land. The creation of a separate budgetary resource, a financing background for the programme promised under the Secretary-General of State of József Ángyán, is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, One of the important stakes of the Parliamentary elections in 2018 was whether the government that makes all power outside of it, independent of it, would remain in place. [[15.20]] We and I are also thinking of the New Beginning Party in the LMP alliance because we wanted to do something about it. We have seen that the government continues to bleed out and evacuate the local government, and sees us as not a partner, but an enemy. We seem to expect nothing good from the new government, but our responsibility is significant in drawing attention to one of the key pillars of democracy, its local government and its preservation, and we should try to protect it as much as possible. The people who sent us to Parliament expect us to fight for our values in our election program. That is why I am here in Parliament, because I am convinced that living in this country will be good if people can really participate in shaping their own destiny, and they have the opportunity to make decisions on their own. All this can be given to people by a municipal system that builds on the participation of members of the community, which knows and can use its resources, and the financing of which is not dependent on the convenience of the central government or even the pro-government representatives. I consider it extremely important to involve mayors in issues that determine the fate of local governments, such as the "Modern Village" programme. The communities of various municipal associations, the TÖOSZ, the Hungarian Village Association, the KÖSZ, MÖSZ and others form an excellent platform for this. Our biggest regret is that the part of the budget for this year's municipalities is not going well either, as the norm has barely increased in recent years. The type of procedure cannot be interpreted if and if, in the previous year, the Government recognises that funding and additional support is not sufficient for a given task, it shall not be included in the basic aid in the following year. Once again, we see no financial cover for the civil servant's salary increase that has been delayed for more than ten years, as the civil servant's salary has been HUF 38 650 for years, which would need to be increased to HUF 60,000. And it should also be mentioned here that, rather than there has been no increase, it was the withdrawal, let us think of the abstract 13th month's wage or the dress support, which also does not apply. Unfortunately, the civil servant pay table does not offer a positive change either. We must be aware that there will be no workers in the civil servants and civil servants sector, as wages are significantly lower than those in the competitive sector. The majority of municipalities, in particular joint municipal offices consisting of small settlements, are unable to finance possible hijacking from their own revenues. There are many municipalities that cannot collect enough local taxes, and for years the state has taken 60% of the car tax, which should remain in the settlement in its entirety, but at least 70%. And here we didn't talk about the fact that all the administrative costs are borne by the local governments, since the purchase of cheques, postal costs, enveloping and everything else is the responsibility of the local government. However, it is not a solution that, for years, only a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage will be added to the wage alone. Slowly, all local government workers get only the guaranteed minimum wage, regardless of age. This is particularly true in small settlements and in rural areas. You are right, Mr Tállai, as you said a few days ago: decent wages must be paid for decent work. I agree, and I also ask that we apply this to the workers mentioned above. We can do this by, for example, raising the number of recognised civil servants. It is an extremely serious problem that the number of civil servants of a metropolitan district government and a similar size of urban government shows a disproportionately large, nearly 50 percent difference, of course in favour of the district authorities. We must not forget the poorest workers, they are the public workers. I was the mayor of a village for 12 years, so I saw poverty at close range. Ladies and gentlemen, You must know that in 2011, a public worker brought home HUF 47 029 net, a skilled worker carrying HUF 60 600. Today this amount is HUF 54 217 and HUF 70 859 respectively. So in seven years, these people received a raise of HUF 7188 and HUF 10 259. And now you can scold them, you can call them lazy, you can say anything, but if you knew them, you wouldn't do that, and I'm sure you'd be convinced that these people, besides being stuck in this strange and underpaid community service for years, are simply in such a mental state that they can't get out of it without their help. And although the number of public workers is on a downward trend, it is worrying that the public employment budget is falling from HUF 225 billion to HUF 180 billion. From the difference that you have abstracted, it would be possible to increase the wages of the public workers, or programmes that will help them to get out of this primarily mentally. It is very shocking to go to such a family, to have children, and, for example, all food at home is a half - cocoa snail, and they have no money for flour, sugar, or any basic food. Believe me, I saw this up close. It is important to note that for years there has been no increase in the norm for social meals or home assistance. Local government associations find it extremely difficult to resolve domestic care mainly in small settlements, which is increasingly needed, since the elderly are left alone, young people leave abroad, and it is much simpler and cheaper to solve home care for the state, of course - than to accommodate in a home. Overall, an increase in the norm intended for this would be essential. In the scheme, it was fixed that the number of recognised civil servants in the municipality's management office decreased by 30 percent. However, the work on the mayor's office has not been reduced to this extent. In many cases, it is almost impossible to ensure the provision of tasks with this number. It is impossible for one or two civil servants to carry out a hundred and fifty tasks, as they cannot properly be absorbed in any of them. This is particularly true for small settlements with significant guest traffic and for offices with multiple or large customer numbers. In 2013, with reference to the commitments, settlements have been drastically reduced from the central budget and, unfortunately, this is the base of the budget ever since. In the case of Manfa village, in 2006 there were 65 million state aid, which is now 30 million. Even though the minimum wage has risen, the VAT has risen, and we know that this is very strange, so drawing the belt very tight, the villagers can barely get their expenses out of the budget. It is no coincidence that local taxes have increased significantly since then. For example, many were forced to introduce communal taxes in settlements where they were not. Credit consolidation has not helped in many settlements either. Local government debt was only a small part of the debt of small settlements, about 10 percent. In the case of municipalities, savings in previous years or the sale of municipal assets may only provide operating costs for a short period of time. Unfortunately, the system of task funding still fails to take into account local specificities, local authorities have different characteristics based on their territorial location, size, economic capacity, traditions, population, demographic composition, transport geographical relations and their social situation, and mandatory tasks are performed according to these circumstances. By focusing solely on the financing of mandatory tasks, the current system of municipal funding eliminates local initiatives, the buoyancy that has operated the settlements in recent years, despite over a thousand billion forints of mobility. In most cases, revenues calculated on the basis of support for the provision of tasks related to the operation of settlements do not cover the most basic activities. There is a risk that the current funding will start an irreversible process in the municipalities, since the liquidated, discontinued supply will be possible at a later stage either not at all or with significant additional costs. [[15.30]] The next most important step would therefore be to guarantee the resources needed to carry out the real tasks. Otherwise, the number and quality of local public services will continue to decrease significantly and may lead to rural depopulation. For this reason, a sustainable approach is also included in the central budget, which aims to create the conditions necessary for rural development. Substantial resources are needed to renovate the lower roads. You know the riddle, it's stained on the back, it's never had a needle in it, what is it? This is no longer the cabbage, but the Hungarian lower roads. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. According to its data, the status of national roads is 53,4 percent poor. Where there are no high-quality roads, the residents escape. Next year, motorists and carriers will pay more on toll roads. Next year, the renovation of the road network halved the costs. But the construction of new roads and motorways is on the move. As I mentioned earlier, there was no separate amount among the lines of the budget for the "Modern villages" programme, even though, before the parliamentary elections, Viktor Orbán contacted the mayors of small settlements by letter at the time - in which he explained: "I personally believe it is important that every small establishment retains its independence, which I have supported and will support in the future. I would like our villages to be able to keep their inhabitants, so after 2018 we have to announce the programme "Modern villages," which aims to develop and strengthen small settlements. The Prime Minister's statement. The villages have no more time, and they cannot wait any more years. In order to halt and reverse negative demographic trends, integrated and complex developments are needed, building on local resources, mainly on the motivation of villages, small towns and the population of small towns. In order to ensure effective change, local challenges need to be identified, addressed individually and development coordination in the region. As far as rural development is concerned, I think it is a coincidence that just before the elections 106 billion EU funds were announced. For the municipalities, the government should not only provide development opportunities during election campaigns, but also continuously. It is vital that predictable, safe and even development is achieved for all settlements. At the same time, it is a big question of what will happen to the countryside until the next financial cycle. Complex, well-thought-out, LEADER-like developments for the small regions; I recommend the immediate launch of the program, at least HUF 150 billion in the next year, and then HUF 200 billion a year with the involvement of local government associations. The amount referred to by me is about one third of the amount allocated to the programme "Modern Cities" programme. All in all, I must say that this budget is unacceptable from the point of view of municipalities and agriculture, because it is a budget of locality and slow agony. There is no attempt to address the problems recorded in the system, and there remains a culture of vulnerability, goodwill and lobbying of the Fidesz MEPs, redistribution and alms. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-27-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Szilárd Németh, State Secretary.
u2018-06-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The debate has been going on since 8:00 a.m., almost 8 hours ago, and I left the room for a minute, so I listened to all the comments and tried to decode them all, but I actually concluded that my fellow members of the opposition from Jobbik to MSZP, LMP and Dialogue until Ferenc Gyurcsány DK had practically nothing to learn from the elections in 2018, since they continued where they left off. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Teach me more, master!]] In effect, those who spoke and here the lead speakers were the most interesting to me - they all asked us for the programme of their own party, the budget envisaged by their own party, why we did not implement the budget. Of course, all these voices ringing, these analyses, but it's weird that you guys were driven away. So on April 8, 2018, they said thank you, we don't want any of this. So what you're offering the country doesn't need [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got three thirds, didn't you, Szilárd?]] and Fidesz has been given the authority to represent the interests of the Hungarian people here in the Parliament. This budget is not made on the basis of ideologies, on political séances, on the basis of something that you would like to impose on us in any way. On the other hand, I see that the budgetary debate is as far away from professionalism as possible. They're using it for nothing but to keep hitting the government, and they're trying to keep causing trouble. Technically, if you look at the promises you have made here, they have reached the limit of the promise of free beer and eternal life, so it is very difficult to argue this way, especially in the field in which I am now forced to speak because at first I thought I would get away with it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We also hoped for him!]] Because your keynote speakers, I have observed, have never mentioned security, border protection, the fight against migration. [[Márta Demeter: Yes, you can. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You weren't just out for a minute!]] ...so they never once spoke on this issue. A sentence, a word has not been said on these issues, and I think that it is the most important issue, when we say that the budget for safe growth is the 2019 budget, then we use the word security not only in terms of economic and social security, but also, of course, in terms of the country's physical security, the sovereignty, peace of Hungary, the preservation of the security of the Hungarian people. And as Ágnes Vadai and Tamás Harangozó mentioned, the main depositary of the country's security is the Hungarian Defence Office and the Hungarian police. Well, what they said in this area was wind, rain, crickets, bugs, and apologizing for how important this question was in their time, and that was definitely beneath criticism. Let us look at the facts, and I will read the facts from the budget, and I think that with these figures, I would like to emphasise once again: these facts cannot be debated. So, cynical lies, bluffs that have been told here on this subject, about Hungarian defence, I think that only numbers and facts can be operated on. Now, let's look at this 0.1 percentage point increase in GDP. It is clear to everyone, and I think it is clear to you, Madam Member, and also to the Member, that this is now rising by 0.1 percentage points in the second year, and this will now reach 1.17 per cent of GDP and by 2024 the 2 per cent required by NATO. But we are not really interested in NATO regulations, but in the security of the country in this regard, and if it is necessary, and if the country has the economic power to do so now, the country has the economic power to do so - then it can be up to 2 percent higher than this share, which, by the way, we can devote to the security of the country, which we can devote to the Hungarian Defence Office, to the development of the Hungarian army. If we look at this, what you said was that it was 1.23 percent, it was really that much in 2009, minus 6.7 percent GDP growth, i.e. 6.7 percent GDP decline. GDP growth over the last four years between 2014-17, i.e. these four years plus 3.6 percent, and the 2019 budget with a very well-founded growth of 4.1 percent accepted by economic analysts, OECD, the European Union [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: Euro exchange rate?]] So he's expecting an extra 4.1 percent increase. [[15.40]] This now represents an increase of 85.5 billion in the 2019 budget compared to last year, which is a 20 percent increase in resources, making the chapter budget 512.8 billion. So I would like to point out once again, 512.8 billion. This is the amount of money that has never been spent on the Hungarian Army. We could continue with Zrinyi 2026. So the government decided on 2026 in 2016, it's a long-term, extremely complex, we could say that the most comprehensive, complex development plan of the last quarter of a century [[Márta Demeter: Too bad it doesn't exist!]] its military development plan, because the defence is made up of people on the one hand and there are the necessary tools to be developed on the other. This is what the long-term programme for [[Márta Demeter: It's not ready!]] all its resources are available for the next ten years. So resources, both human resources and financial resources are available, and this defence and military development programme is broken down into annual levels. In the planning of the resources, there was also a great lie that there was no money for development. In terms of resources, we represent this ratio in the 2019 budget and until we reach the level that the Hungarian government has set in terms of our defences, we use the 40-30-30 percent ratio. 40 percent goes for personal payments, 30 percent for operation and maintenance, and always 30 percent for development. So we're going to keep this ratio in any way. To give you a number for this 30 percent development, this is 149.3 billion, not 0.8 billion, as we have heard here. By the way, it is very difficult to listen to developments, its criticism of them... By the way, you were the Secretary of State for Defence, I understand that when Ferenc Gyurcsány was just, let me just give you an example: 77 P72s, very modern and easily modernized military cars from Hungary. So that's how you've been developing your forces, so you've been very serious about this. By the way, full range of weapons and forces have vanished in your time, not just real estate. Not only could we say that during this period the army itself, the defense itself, was morally depraved, but they sold practically everything they could. This applies to barracks, equipment, and everything that's been touched, it's either broken or it's gone. This is the time when we can talk about the appearance of whiskey boxes full of these colorful papers, and we can talk about the fact that, by the way, completely empty bottles of whiskey were covered here, over there, especially when we had to talk to the minister at the time about an international event. I could also say that the most important objective, in addition to technical development, is the development and purchase of military, technical, weapons, cyber defence, anti-aircraft and armoured capabilities, but also the renewal of motor vehicles. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 250 SUVs were last delivered to the military. But the so-called rigid and rotating wing, i.e. the acquisition of aircraft and helicopters and the renovation of helicopters, because it was the most economically appropriate, and the best way to improve the military's capabilities, you would have thrown these helicopters out, and these helicopters would have been delivered. I wouldn't look so far down on the development of the barracks, because in the coming period, this year ten barracks will be developed, in Tata, Kaposvár, Szentes, Debrecen, in military cities that you have evacuated. I recently spoke to the head of one of the military cities, who now offered to the military the barracks that had been handed over to an entrepreneur, and the contractor passed it on to the municipality, may now be returned to us. It's amazing what they left behind. So they've left a world like this, and they've been trying to throw everything around for the past few years. It's a fitting. As far as salaries are concerned, we're totally fine. [[Márta Demeter: Ask the file for this!]] Ask the soldiers, I don't think it's a coincidence, the soldiers voted most likely. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Do you know who?]] We don't know. I'm guessing the soldiers voted because they have that right. Perhaps you would have taken that right away from them. However, it is convincing that in recent years, the period of salary increases will be completed next year, which means that soldiers' wages will increase by 50 percent. You have completely lost your salary. Here, in this development, to talk about pensions, so about the retirement of a certain service pension, please think, fellow Members, that 40-year-old people in full power could retire, but with a crowd of them, whether the country can handle it, whether the country can handle it or not. The way I see it, there's nothing wrong with that. You're the only ones trying to pull this off. This has been accepted by everyone, and society fully supports the need to change this system, because this system has been completely unfair. Everything's fine in terms of numbers. By 2019 we expect that the professional stock will grow by 1000 people. Overall, the Hungarian Defence Office has 28,000 employees, and has a budget base to reach 28,000 people. The voluntary reserve system. Here in the last few days, I mean, a man with a power relationship before 2010 if he dares to talk about it, I think that really sucks. There were 17 volunteers, 17 voluntary reserve soldiers in 2010. It's 6700 today. So here, I think that this competition doesn't have to be particularly explained when we hear these two numbers. Or in terms of training: those who have removed all military colleges from talking about how dare they dare to speak out about it at all? In Debrecen, a new secondary school and college, this Károly Kratochvil, started negotiations, and we are well beyond that, and it is certain that in Hódmezővásárhely at the latest in 2020 students can start their military careers. The defence industry. They didn't tell me that, and that's what they could've told me. Technically, it's set to zero. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] So in 2010, we stood there that the Hungarian Defence Office could not obtain Hungarian weapons, Hungarian military tools, and tools produced in Hungary. It had to be reorganized again, the whole thing had to be restarted. Now we're going to be able to open a weapons and ammunition factory soon. It is a very important investment that will not only provide small arms to the Hungarian armed forces, but it is also likely to be able to produce for export. Missions. In terms of missions, in recent years both NATO and the European Union mission, so we have been involved in any constellations abroad, the Hungarian soldiers have always been spoken in superlatives, in the most respected way. I would also suggest to you here that not only our missionary soldiers, but also those who have carried out armed service in the last three years in order to guard and protect our borders, who have guaranteed our security, our peace of mind, rather than trying so hard to insult the whole system itself, we should thank them again, and not enough to guarantee not only our country, but also the sovereignty of Hungary, but also the peace of Europe. I'd like to thank them here again. [[15.50]] So, for international missions, let's think about the fact that there are thousands of people serving in 14 countries on 4 continents. They speak for themselves. Another country with such economic performance, a country with a GDP of EUR 114 billion, does not maintain such a foreign mission outside Hungary. We should be proud of that, too. This mission activity will also be fully covered by the 2019 budget. All that you have said here, contrary to what I see, and who actually reads the budget, looks at the numbers and looks behind the numbers, and takes the trouble, goes away and talks to the Hungarian soldiers, everyone can see that if you really do, then in the teleologic thinking, in the aim of ensuring security in Hungary, the most important thing is to guarantee the sovereignty of the country, then we can see that the Hungarian Defence Office will be the biggest winner of the 2019 budget with Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2018-06-27-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to László Földi's speech. I'm sorry he's not here. In his speech, he mentioned how important it was for him as a representative to support sports, and he mentioned in particular in families, in support of children, the educational and gym development program, what a success it was for children and families, for the settlements. There's something I need to clear up here. In 2014, the government announced the school development and gym building programme. Then they promised me 24 schools and 25 gymnasiums. These facilities did not reach HUF 10 billion in support and hold on, and until 2018, they failed to build all 24 and 25 gymnasiums and training rooms. According to data requested in 2017, 8 schools and 16 gymnasiums were handed over. Eight of the 24 schools and sixteen of the 25 gymnasiums. But it may not even be the biggest problem if we have not managed to build so many gymnasiums in four years, while we see that we have spent hundreds of billions of forints on empty stadiums in the country. But imagine that these gymnasiums can't be used by children. In my own settlement, where I live, and in the surrounding settlements, because the municipality owns it and does not belong to KLIK, so the municipality can only lease it to KLIK, KLIK does not have a budget for the operation of gymnasiums and educational schools, so only children of the 5th and 6th grade can play gymnastics in the brand new 300 million forints gymnasium. Now, this is a huge success, fellow Members, when they build something, they refer to the support of Hungarian children, the support of families, and they cannot use it! Congratulations on that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-27-56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes.
u2018-06-27-57	Mr President, Dear House, As this should basically be a professional debate, I try to refrain from the signs and ratings that are characteristic of Szilárd Németh. However, if you are here and are already active, I will address the question to your fellow State Secretary, because you believe that the cost of operating the state will increase by HUF 177 billion in the following year. I find it quite amazing that, while there is insufficient resources in this budget for economic development, housing for young people and establishing a demographic-based turnaround, this is the case. To highlight only one factor, this budget does not cover the support of the so-called flask baby programme without a ceiling. We are not saying that this system has not moved in recent years, but I am saying that it would be expected that a Hungarian family who tries to do something like this would not have to count on a waiting list, nor would it have to expect expenditure to exist in the current system. This 177 billion-dollar increase in terms of the extra spending on the operation of the state calls for an explanation. But I also have to say that the amazing movements in the exchange rate of HUF/euro affect a lot of budget lines. Now a euro is moving towards 337 forints. I would like to ask you a clear question and a clear answer. When preparing this draft budget, what exchange rate did you expect? At what exchange rate were the series of numbers that were in front of us established? After all, it is quite clear that if the forint's exchange rate deteriorates at this rate, it will have serious implications for the entire budget, thus proving once again that it is not appropriate to discuss next year's budget without closing accounts, without knowing the facts. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-58	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada.
u2018-06-27-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Szilárd Németh has been clearly persecuted by defence knowledge in recent years, but he has not caught up with him. [[Defiance.]] Because if you had caught up with him, you wouldn't have said so much nonsense about the Hungarian Defence and the opposition representatives, or at least the Democratic Coalition's position on defence. Secretary of State, no one criticized the performance of Hungarian soldiers. We criticized the performance of the Hungarian government, the Orbán government, the Fidesz government. That's a huge difference. Don't try to identify yourself with the army. If you had listened and read the budget lines in the past period, you would know precisely that in 2007, even in the year of the crisis, the then government spent more on the Hungarian Defence Forces than you did in any year between 2011 and 2015. The $80 billion extra resource will not be enough to eliminate this deficit, which has been accumulated in many, many years. I would add that the Zrínyi 2026 program, which also attempts to continue the development and develop new capabilities, is worth some 64 billion HUF, so to create new skills, is next to you. Increasing the salary system, which is not a skill development, but a natural thing. Developing the recruitment system, which is not a skill development. Language training, which is not a skill development, certainly not in the sense that it is the tool park of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and you know it, we have been listening to it for years at the Defence Committee meeting, it is outdated, and it should be improved. And the development of the voluntary reserve system is not the type of skill development that you imagine it to be. Renovating a bathroom, a toilet in a barracks doesn't mean developing skills. Today, we face challenges in the world such as cybersecurity issues, which you have not reflected in any way, and we have even found that, in contrast to the Hungarian national interest, the Fidesz MEPs in Budapest often represent Russian state interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2018-06-27-61	Thank you very much. I would like to make a more general comment. I do not want to teach party history in this place, but the LMP was formed in 2008 as an opposition to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, and Jobbik served as an opposition to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. So we're a little bored, although I don't want to speak for Jobbik, but I'm sure I'm bored with this constant past eight years. In 2009, what you're talking about, I was just about to graduate. There are some Hungarian citizens who are my age and pay taxes, and this budget is also about them. So what I am asking is that if you have criticism of the former governments, which the Hungarian people have already taken a few opinions about, and I do not want those governments naturally back, just like we do not, then discuss this during the coffee break. But it's not part of the budget debate. One Member already spoke about the difference between the Medgyessy government and the first civilian government. It's a good thing you didn't start discussing the 2018 budget with Kálmán Tisza! So I would like to ask you to e-mail me and discuss your problems with such a previous period. But I do not think that this is relevant for the negotiations on the 2019 budget in 2018. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-27-62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We are going back to the normal order of opposition, so I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, on behalf of Fidesz. [[16.00]]
u2018-06-27-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As a Member of the National Assembly of Győr, one of the cultural centers of the Western Hungarian region, and as the Vice-President of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, I will be speaking to the cultural area in the next few minutes, highlighting some of the major investments in the light of the budget. It is an important and high priority for the government as part of national culture to support art, for which nearly a hundred cultural investments have been launched in recent years. If we look at the draft budget for 2019 and compare it to this year, the cultural area will have a HUF 70 billion higher amount. Cultural investments cover national priority national institutions as well as rural cultural institutions. The professional management and supervision of the cultural sector include around 56 large projects from predominantly domestic sources, the total number of projects, together with the investments of the Liget Budapest project and the projects of the Makovecz programme in total 96. In my speech, I highlight six of the draft law on the central budget for 2019, in the chapter under the supervision of the cultural sector of EMMI, which includes the renovation of the building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road, the investment of the Modern Opera, the preparation and implementation of the Liget Budapest project, the preparation of the investment for the implementation of the new building of the Metropolitan Grand Circus, the development of the Makovecz Imre Fund and the Thália Theatre and the Microscope Theatre. The most important investment in art is the renovation and modernisation of the building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road. The aid amount for the investment is HUF 30.7 billion, fully financed by the government from domestic funds. The amount of aid planned for 2019 is HUF 8.2 billion. The Hungarian State Opera House is one of Hungary's only opera and classical ballet institutions, the Andrássy building of the Opera House, the Ybl Palace is one of the most valuable, emblematic monuments in Hungary, with more than half a million visitors every year, the last renovation took place between 1980 and 84. This appropriation is intended to finance the complete renovation of the Andrássy Road Monument building and the provision of modern technical conditions for the institution. Within the framework of the project launched in 2016, the lobby of the Andrássy út building, its main staircase, its spectator room, a wider orchestral trench will be built, and the upgrading of the service facilities will be completed, and the facade renovation of the Opera House will also be carried out. In the Opera House, closed a year ago, the construction is in progress and the deadline for its implementation is 1 May 2019. Through the renovation and modernisation, the Hungarian State Opera House receives an environment worthy of its artistic rank and significance. Second, I mention the Modern Opera investment, which aims to create an opera house with 700 people capacity without company, which, unlike the repertoire of the prestigious Hungarian State Opera and Erkel Theatre, provides an international standard reception space for contemporary and baroque opera performances. According to the government decision adopted in 2016, the government agrees that the Modern Opera, designed by BMC, the Budapest Music Center Cultural Service Limited Liability Company, is required to provide an additional HUF 1 billion in the central budget of 2018 and 2019 to implement the Opera X building. The new institution is expected to be opened in the autumn of 2021 or 22 The infrastructure background is provided by the Modern Opera X investment, the Modern Opera is located in the new building section to be built on adjacent plots as an extension of the BMC's Mátyás Street centre. The total project costs HUF 4.8 billion, to which the central budget contributes HUF 2 billion between 2017 and 19 respectively, the remaining part is provided by BMC's own revenue and loan. The aid amount included in the bill submitted for the 2019 budget is HUF 500 million. Third, the government decided in 2015 to implement the Liget Budapest project. One of the main objectives of the complex development between 2015 and 21 is the restoration of the public park Városliget as a landscape garden and the comprehensive cultural and tourist development of the Városliget with the implementation of ten project elements: the renovation of the Roman Hall of Fine Arts, the implementation of the National Museum, Restoration and Warehouse, the restoration and development of the Csillag Fortress in Komárom, the establishment of the House of Hungarian Innovation with the reconstruction of the former building of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, the implementation of the Bartók Centre, the Hungarian House of Music, the implementation of the plans to win the new National Gallery at the international design competition, the implementation of the concept of the Metropolitan Circus building, the implementation of the new building of the Museum of Ethography, the reconstruction and recovery of the Olaf Palme House and the restoration of the City Park Theatre. The Liget Budapest project has been awarded budget support of HUF 173 billion exclusively from domestic sources. The HUF 29.2 billion appropriation for the year 2019 included in the proposal of the Budget Act ensures the time-related coverage of the implementation of the Liget Budapest project, including for the public park and infrastructure rehabilitation project Városliget, the establishment of the underground garage on Dózsa György út, the reconstruction of the Olaf Palme House, the construction of the new buildings of the Ethnographic Museum, the House of Hungarian Music, and the design and implementation of the new National Gallery, as well as Városliget Zrt. the source necessary for its operation. Fourth, I mention the selection of the new building complex of the Metropolitan Circus, which is a priority task. A location suitable for the establishment of the National Circus Centre, capable of accepting all the functions of the Metropolitan Circus, is in progress. The renewal programme of the Metropolitan Circus will implement the European-scale centre of performing arts and circuses, the classic and modern contemporary circus and the modern educational base at a new location to be designated by the government. The government authorised the use of HUF 18 billion of the amount provided for the implementation of the Liget Budapest project between the years 2016 and 2019. The amount of aid included in the bill on the 2019 budget is HUF 2.5 billion, which is intended to prepare and implement the headline development objective. The 2015 Government decision on the care of the Makovecz oeuvre established the Makovecz Imre Fund in order to implement the plans of Imre Makovecz's oeuvre and renovate the buildings, which I would like to mention as the fifth. In addition to the worthy care of the work of the Hungarian architect of special quality, the programme for the construction and implementation of the buildings designed by Imre Makovecz offers development opportunities primarily for the countryside. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Makovecz Imre programme takes place in 24 settlements, a series of projects involving 28 buildings such as village houses, churches, cultural and educational institutions, as well as three stage works of Béla Bartók, and the reconstruction of drinking fountains on Sárospatak. The implementation of the projects per location is ongoing, and the 2019 support for this project includes HUF 1.4 billion from the budget. As sixth, I mention support for the development of the Thália Theatre and the Microscope Theatre. As a result of the investment supported by the Municipality of Budapest, the development programme enabling the professional and physical integration of the buildings of the two theatres will be implemented, in which the two theatres will become an organic unit. The Microscope Theatre can also function as a 450-person venue, thanks to the new mobile stage and mobile viewing space, new lighting and sound systems will be installed. The theatre buffet and the cafeteria will be able to serve the non-theater visiting audience, so some of the earlier forced solutions will be eliminated. [[16.10]] The HUF 1.3 billion reconstruction programme of the playground in the maintenance of the Metropolitan Municipality in 2018-19 requires a HUF 985 million grant according to the government decision, which is included in the draft budget for 2019. I would like to briefly mention another investment and development in my constituency, and this is the complex renovation of the National Theatre of Győr, which is not only the building of the theatre, but also its surroundings. Pope John Paul also contains space. This investment will be carried out within the framework of the Modern Cities Programme. The instrument of support for the investment has been handed over and the renovation will begin shortly. I note in parentheses that the theatre building was built in 1977-78, so the renovation is definitely timely. Ladies and gentlemen, It's often said that culture costs a lot, dear, and I think it would really cost us all if it weren't. Culture is not a profit, it is a part of something large, a force of beauty and joy, a force of communion. The original meaning of culture means care and preservation, taking care of something. The old Romans used this word to describe the relationship between man and nature. It was thought that nature should be cultivated and nurtured in order to become habitable to man. And it's no different today. Culture lives when we cultivate it, when we take care of it. That's what we're doing now, and that's what we need to do. Of course, I propose that the budget be adopted in its entirety, not only by appropriations for culture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lu-kács.
u2018-06-27-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It may not be surprising that I wish to speak on health and on the health part of the budget. However, it is essential to clarify at the beginning of each such speech what a budget should ideally be if we are talking about health, i.e. what it should be suitable for, what it should have. And it is very simple to tell you what the main elements that health needs to fulfil, and therefore everything that finances Hungarian health... and in this case, the budget finances a very large part of health care. It should therefore be suitable for people to benefit from the most extensive expansion, to use it at the highest possible level, and to use it at an affordable price, i.e. an appropriate remuneration for a service. However, it is important that the budget also has to respond to certain challenges, and when I looked at the budget figures, I also looked for answers to them. An important question, such as the ageing of society, and this is a very high pressure on the health care system, is it an answer or is the budget somehow prepared? Or the need to keep up with technological progress, because, fellow Members, there are health diagnostic options that are unfortunately not available in Hungarian public health care, although I could be the most modern and perhaps one of the most important healings. For example, for individual cancers, molecular diagnostic tools or options that are already available on the market range from HUF 1.3 million to HUF 700 thousand and enable someone to tell how fast their disease is or what therapy should be used against it. It is possible to determine with precision how therapy can be used with as little suffering as possible, with the greatest cost-effectiveness and with the best results. Well, that's not what the Hungarian public-funded health care knows. But maybe it's just the cream on the cake, so you shouldn't be stuck in this. But the question is whether or not it really responds to the pressure of technological change or to the pressure of an ageing society. And here, we can look at the state of health and the state of the health budget in the international comparison or in the previous domestic comparison, and it is true that there is a HUF 101 billion surplus this year compared to the 2018 budget. However, ladies and gentlemen, the international trend points in the direction that public expenditure on health must be increased, not in this proportion, but at a much higher rate and at a much higher rate, precisely because of technological development and pressure, the ageing society. In many cases, public expenditure is defined as GDP. It's safe to say that we're a 1.5-2 percent behind. However, if we look at it in real terms, we are still seriously behind the European average or the international average, as we are not only looking at Europe, but also looking at an OECD average, which would show a health care service that is not the best quality in the world, but perhaps in a country of the same level as Hungary. This would give Hungarian society so much protection that in this society, for example, Hungarian society should not have one of the worst statistics of one of the world's worst and most developed countries, as it is now. So the whole point of this would be, and the whole budget would have to do it, is that what people expect, the real expectation of health, is something that the government is trying to do. And it seems that this surplus of HUF 101 billion can be written for your benefit, which, compared to the previous year, is shown in public health expenditure, can be a cure at some level, but only to a certain, very narrow extent. After all, we see that progress is constantly eroding this amount, and there is constant spending on the other side of it, a spending pressure. As a critic, it is usually formulated, and I would like to say that one of the problems of public funding for Hungarian health care is that it is still tax-based. So, basically, we're paying it out of the budget's tax revenue, and not mostly from some labeled amount. So the planning, the predictability, and even the ability of people to see what they actually make out of their paid contributions, their paid contributions to health care, and how the provider buys them, it becomes completely untraceable. I mentioned underfunded. Perhaps another problem is that with the innovative resource creation, which started somewhere at the public health product tax and ended there in Hungarian fiscal policy, we are at odds with it. It is true that the neta, with this shortened name, counts for an ever-increasing amount of public health product tax, but the otherwise 30 and then 50 billion dollars, to which this increase is perhaps a little less than 50 billion - this alone is not enough to replace this huge set, this enormous expenditure pressure. Therefore, other instruments should be found and, for example, I would encourage the government to consider whether tobacco products have already been mentioned as a professional issue or whether it is a similar public health product tax for alcoholic beverages or gambling, all of which are socially harmful activities that need to be compensated in some way. Now, just for a quick calculation of the budget line for excise duty revenue, you can see that about HUF 30 billion of extra income can be obtained from this. And by the way, this could compensate for the lack of it or compensate for the damage to health that is being done to these activities. I think it is a very serious problem that our health care has relied too heavily on EU funds. The European Union's funds have been worth 500 billion forints in recent years, but, my fellow Member, 330 billion forints of this has gone into concrete. It became glass, it became a building, but it was not about internal content, it wasn't about diagnostics, it wasn't about the quality of care, so it wasn't enough in itself to contain the problems caused by the budget and to complement the deficits found or caused by the budget. Institutional amortization is very rarely mentioned, but within the framework of the. Healthy Budapest, if all is true, a background study took into account the shortages of hospitals in Budapest, for example. In addition to being in debt, beyond the fact that the buildings were inadequate, he found a state of amortization of nearly HUF 100 billion or a deficit. This means that the assets there, the infrastructure there, are now struggling with a huge shortage, which I think, in itself, will not be met by the Healthy Budapest. We see that there is a separate amount of money, and it is also slowly kicking to half a hundred billion forints, which the government has planned for, but this alone is not enough to replace the assets there, the very worn-out, damaged assets and infrastructure. [[16.20]] Here come the coded problems. In the case of coded problems, if there's little money, it's a little like soccer, it's a little money, it's a little football, it's the same thing, if there's not enough money, then in health care, the same few services appear, and it's got to be caught from somewhere. That is why wages have not, in essence, increased at a pace that keeps pace with the race in Europe, hospital debts have increased at such a pace that hospitals are now unable to deal with this properly. According to the latest news, Mihály Varga, we can say that he sent silk cords to all the hospital directors, who, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, are your most important constituencies, because earlier the chancellor system in the health sector failed to ensure that fellow Members in the constituency system were more important to maintain peace than to force these hospital directors into some form of prudent and good management. But, I might add, it's not their fault, because they are often not necessarily an internal management error, but an external management imperative. This is the other thing that needs to be improved, and the budget does not provide any positive explanation for this, nor does it give guidance on how it tries to eliminate this anomaly, i.e. that hospitals have been tragically, chronically and now underfunded for a long time, all the activities they should be able to perform cannot be provided with this money. However, we could also say so important and to be clarified that, in relation to basic care, there is no need to increase the norm of primary care. It's just a drop in the sea. However, we can also point out that the issue of home care, for example, is still on the same page, and funding for them has not been willing to rise for years now. In relation to hospital debts, it should also be added that I have not seen a set of figures in the budget, even though it is always in the previous years. These are items of ten billion, as this accumulation appears in this amount. What is really important is the good use of cost-efficiency considerations. There is almost nothing from this budget that can be read about how, for example, the vast organizational knowledge accumulated in the State Health Supply Centre will be used in such a way that it can be managed cost-effectively and more cost-effectively in health care, since there is an internal reserve in health care. Many of us forget this, too, many times parallel benefits run, parallel tests are carried out. These internal reserves could be used. However, what is really important and should appear even more strongly, because perhaps this is the way in which the whole health budget is set out, that the reason why we need more money for health care is because we need health care, defined and financed by state, robust and social security, to be as close as possible to the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, If we don't give the right amount to public health, the consequences will be that private health will crawl through the window and then they won't be able to drop it off. There's a saying behind me that he's here. Those who say that are right. It is our shared responsibility and the shared responsibility of all the parties, honourable Members, that they lived in Hungary by a ten million inhabitants, where I believe it is impossible for a private health to function normally, just by destroying people, to be a normal, robust public and social health care. That's exactly what I don't see in this budget. I don't see you defending that, that's what you're guaranteeing. What I can see is that you put enough money there to keep the imaginary house from crashing, even though you should have supported it with strong pillars. Ladies and gentlemen, There will probably still be a lot of health-related contributions, but this budget should have really been about and, from the point of view of health, it should have been about putting a very strong state foot, a very strong state funding that is as close as possible to the European average, which will ensure safe, high-quality and modern healthcare on the one hand. This budget is approaching in hen steps, even though it should be done by killing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-27-66	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga of Fidesz.
u2018-06-27-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The 2019 budget proposal before us is aimed at preserving the security of our country, maintaining a balanced and dynamic growth of the economy, developing cities and the countryside together, supporting families and achieving full employment. Both the figures of the bill for 2019 and the detailed general government balance plans for 2019-22 support the fact that the economy is stable, strong, increasingly balanced and dynamic. Thus, the government and our country have an increasing margin of mobility to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, The results of the governance of the last eight years and the plans for the period 2019-22 cannot be measured by left-wing governance between 2002-10. The left-wing governments before 2010 lived up to the existing wealth of the state and the people, and did not think about the future. The country has been plunged into a crisis of economic policy and morality. They've only seen me up to their noses, enriched in the present, lived up to the future, the resources of generations. The money for road and highway development was absorbed. Instead of investing in return, they privatised without reason, destroyed the countryside, instead of developing the countryside, the rural poverty was typical. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We are talking about the budget of.]] during left-wing governments. It is worth remembering this sometimes, even if we are talking about the 2019 budget. History is always part of the present. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ten years ago?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about farm development, and in addition to hundreds of billions of dollars of investment and billions, it is a small segment of rural development, but it is a very important segment of rural development. As of 2010, the civilian government has successfully led our country out of the crisis, and in recent years we have seen an ever-increasing economic rise. Civil governments also mean saving the countryside, including saving the farms. The farm development programme, which has been announced each year since 2011, with great success and interest, will continue next year to finance activities related to the renewal of farm farming, the conservation of its specific values and the reduction of the disadvantages of farm life and the improvement of farm life. A significant part of society is affected by this, as according to the latest census data, the population in Hungary is around 300,000 inhabitants. Since 2015, the farm has been a priority national value as part of the Hungarian Value Reserve. In 2019 too, 1.2 billion HUF can be used to finance the ninth-time farm development programme, which is run from national sources. The programme also supports urban and regional development, as well as developments involving individual farm farmers. The target areas of the farm development programme will be set up in accordance with the rural development programme in order to ensure adequate use of resources from 2016 onwards, in order to support as widely as possible. In addition to the traditional lowland farmland, three southern walks of Heves county have been covered since 17 in Dunántúr, Bakony, Szentgal and its surroundings. Dear House, Since 2015, in the framework of the farm development programme, a programme to support the revitalization of closed gardens and support the dissemination of national field management has been launched. The budget for this was 300 million forints last year. In Hungary, there are currently some 200,000 hectares of closed garden property. Some of these areas are not well-kept. This program keeps traditions alive, based on grape and fruit production, and helps self-care. The programme can not only serve rural development, genetic conservation and community development objectives, but also encourage the development of landscape conservation tasks while maintaining biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, please support the budget proposal before us, which serves the further development of our country, in the interests of the Hungarian people and families. Thank you, Mr. President, for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-27-68	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP. [[16.30]]
u2018-06-27-69	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I might surprise you: I want to talk about the 2019 budget, not about the eight years ago and not about the fifteen years ago. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You are ashamed of that!]] a chapter on employment policy. It is not surprising that the Parliament is discussing another Bianko budget here. So, basically, we see that we didn't close 2018 either, and we don't know the main figures and figures that could base a 2019 budget, but we don't give a damn about it, it's been that way for years. In addition, I must note and return to what my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said, that all the news is full of the fact that the forint fell, the forint fell. As far as I know, 311 HUF has been designed with 33 pennies for this budget for next year, and God can tell you where the HUF/euro exchange rate stops tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. In addition to the fact that we have a Bianco budget, there are a lot of vague promises in this budget. Such a vague promise, for example, is that here Minister Mihály Varga promised a more serious wage increase for approximately 200,000 people working in the public sector, which could amount to 25-30 percent. But in the same way I can mention the facilitation of the employment of pensioners, which is also just a promise, the Minister said in his expoze here that they would want to regulate this in a separate law. We look forward to what these measures will be. In addition, it can be seen, especially because of the euro exchange rate and the fluctuations in the forint rate compared to the euro, and now we are talking about its deep-flying, not so much fluctuations, we are holding a budget in our hands, and it is likely that the Fidesz majority will adopt a budget that needs to be amended before it comes into force. Dear House, In the context of next year's budget review and on the basis of other statements published in the press, it can be concluded that both the Hungarian National Bank and the government are preparing for a crisis. The general reserve for extraordinary government measures will rise from HUF 110 billion this year to HUF 165 billion, the amount of the National Defence Fund will remain unchanged, instead of the HUF 90 billion earmarked for the various provisions this year, the government has planned HUF 136 billion next year, which is HUF 360 billion, if I count it correctly. The government is also increasing the amount that can be spent on job search benefits during unemployment, instead of HUF 55 billion this year, it intends to spend HUF 75 billion on this purpose next year, and the rate of growth is more than 36 percent. I don't know what they're expecting next year. Next year's budget expects that the staff's sick time will also increase, as next year, instead of HUF 115.8 billion, it will cost HUF 126.1 billion, which is an increase of nearly 9 percent. So I'm still asking what the hell they're counting on if they put these amounts and numbers in next year's budget. That can't be called safety. The government expects a 4.1 percent economic growth in 2019, as mentioned here by several people. This is a very optimistic assumption, according to many people, especially in the light of the recent trade war between the United States of America and the European Union, which has had a significant impact on those involved in the automotive industry. As I see it, in the structure of the Hungarian economy today, the manufacturing industry and, within it, the production of motor vehicles is a top priority, and roughly 5 percent of the Hungarian GDP is generated by the production of vehicles. The planned Hungarian economic growth can also be reduced by the rise in the prices of raw materials, especially oil, as well as the possible long-term infirmity of the forint. So that's what we're looking at right now, according to the news. The European Central Bank recently announced after the central bank of the United States, in order to slowly liquidate its asset purchase programme, which will, for example, result in an increase in low-cost housing loans or consumer loans. This process may even cause the performance of the real economy to stop. These economic and trade factors, in addition to harming the planned economic growth, will also have a very serious impact on domestic inflation. Next year, the government expects inflation to be higher than this year, 2.7 percent. If the above-mentioned macroeconomic processes have a long-term impact, this means that the rate of inflation currently planned will increase even more. This means that the real value of wages and pensions will be worth less, we will spend more money to preserve or try to maintain our current standard of living; of course, I am not talking about the Members of Parliament, but about the nearly ten million Hungarians. Knowing the still low wage levels and pensions, it is feared that many of our countrymen will live worse next year than they do now, the majority of the population will be able to afford less, and therefore more will most likely have to pay. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Another chapter is the social contribution tax in the budget. Although the tax laws also deal with it, I must mention it here for a sentence or two, all the more so because Minister Mihály Varga described it for a long time in the morning hours. From the current 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent next year, which, no need to be a head counter, represents a 2 percent decrease, leaving nearly HUF 100 billion more than businesses. However, there is no guarantee that the SME sector will use this extra money to increase employee wages. By the way, it is also an afternoon announcement that companies, employers' organisations, protest that they will postpone this 2 percent reduction, while the government expects a minimum wage increase from the business sector. So I think that companies are right to ask the government that if they ask for an increase in the minimum wage from January, it should also reduce that burden by 1 January and not slip away from the middle of the year, from which a substantial part of the increase in the minimum wage could be achieved at least. The increase in the revenue side of the budget also means that the state is drawing more and more money from the workers. The more money goes into the state register, the less money people have, it's not a real recognition. But it has also appeared in the last eight years, my fellow Members, that welfare and social expenditure has fallen radically, by about 20 percent, since in 2010 welfare expenditure was still around 62 percent of GDP, of course from health to pension expenditure, now it is only 55.4 percent, and the state spends more year on its own operation. What I can see from the perspective of the last eight years is my apologies for referring back to these eight years, although at the beginning I said that I would be talking about next year's budget - that only in this column the government has withdrawn about HUF 1200-1300 billion in recent years. The income from the insurance tax will be more than doubled next year, from 35 billion this year to 82 billion forints. The rate of the current 27 per cent general sales tax and the single-key 15 per cent personal income tax will not change next year. In this line of thought, for example, it should be noted that the VET contribution to the State is also growing dynamically year after year: while this amount was HUF 74,436 billion in 2018 and 95,490, to be more precise, 95 billion in 2019. The state takes more than HUF 21 billion out of the pockets of businesses from one year to the next. If we compare the state withdrawal of the VET contribution to the year 2016, this amount decreased even higher, by almost HUF 56.9 billion. In four years, the planned public revenue under the title VET contribution will increase by around 67.5 percent. The provision in the Chapter of the Ministry of Finance includes compensation for wages for civil servants in the public sector, and, of course, additional personal allowances and related contributions and social contributions and social contributions to employers for persons employed in the public sector and for persons carrying out educational, educational, higher education, health, charitable, social, family, child and youth protection, cultural and sporting activities on their own or through their institution, should be determined by law for those employed in 2019. [[16.40]] This wage compensation means that, unfortunately, thousands of wages in the public sector are still below the minimum wage. You have heard correctly, fellow Members, the wages of thousands of people in this sphere are not even equal to the minimum wage. Therefore, their efforts are complemented by the state to achieve at least the minimum wage level of these labour incomes. I think it's a shame for the government to maintain in the public administration for years pay systems where thousands of people don't earn the minimum wage by working for eight hours a day. I recently received an OECD survey of income. Dear friends, among the OECD member countries, this survey shows that only Mexico has lower incomes and wages than Hungary. [[Dr. István Vitányi: This was 2010.]] It wasn't 2010, my fellow Member, it was just a recent survey. And if you look at at at least the comparison of the Visegrad 4s, then you can see that we are well-discussed here, by the way, with Congressman Vitányi, in Slovakia, these wages are 8 percent higher, 12 percent higher in the Czech Republic, and in Poland, which was well behind us a few years ago, the wages are already 17 percent higher than in Hungary. The government intends to spend only HUF 15 billion more on education next year compared to this year. This amount is very small, this will be carried away by inflation practically, it's as if they didn't get almost a naughty penny. For Fidesz, young people are not important, knowledge is not important. However, for Hungary, it is important that future generations are increasingly prepared, smarter and capable to compete with neighbouring countries and to become a strong, developing Member State of the European Union. The management of the vocational training system is changing significantly again, which is being reorganised almost every year. The management tasks of vocational education and training were transferred from the Ministry of National Economy to the newly formed Ministry of Innovation and Technology on the basis of the new governance structure established after the Spring parliamentary elections. As a result of this transformation, the management of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, vocational training centres and labour market and training tasks were transferred to the new Ministry. Compared to this year, the situation of vocational training in the budget is not significantly improved next year. With regard to the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, there are expected to be a decline in numbers, significant changes, personal benefits, contributions to employers and social contributions tax lines, compared to HUF 1541.5 million this year, only HUF 1263.3 million is planned for the central budget next year. This shows 278 million forints less. The scope of the Office will also be reduced next year, as the amount of expenditure in rem will also be reduced. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I believe that it is not difficult to conclude that the MSZP will not support the adoption of the so-called Bianko bill on the 2019 budget, as the amount of state withdrawals in the 2019 budget is going to rise to unprecedented heights. It is already clear that this bill will need to be amended several times before it enters into force. In addition to the promise, the wage increase for public service workers does not have any tangible safeguards. The further risk of next year's budget is also the question of labour supply, i.e. whether there will be people for ambitious investment programmes, housing ideas, government commitments and capacity expansion, and whether we can improve efficiency; it is all the more apparent that there is a terrible shortage of labour in this country, that the shortage of labour is becoming an increasing obstacle to the development of the economy and to the growth of performances. Dear fellow Members, Recent surveys show that some 800-900 thousand people have left this country. From the statistical and labour market databases of different countries, it can be concluded that more than 250 thousand Hungarians are already working and living outside the UK, and these statistics show that more than 210 thousand Hungarians are working outside Germany. It can also be seen that more than 80,000 people are already working in Austria, 14 000 people in the Netherlands, Ireland, Spain and Italy. I don't even count all the rest. In the social profession, colleagues have been complaining for years now that there are virtually no social workers in Western Hungary, there are no social professionals who work in residential nursing homes, primary care or day care, because those who live close to the Austrian border simply commute and pass through Austria in the morning will do their job for three or four times the salary they would get here. Technically, there's no supplies. There are university educators who have not been able to start training in the social field for next year. Please, it doesn't belong to the budget, but I think I had to say this, because if we go on like this, this country will be eliminated, there will be no one left in the world to lay the foundations, say, for the next year or for the following years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-27-70	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-06-27-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some of the points that have been raised over the past period, and I hope that the allegations that have been made, whether in terms of municipal or public welfare expenditure or in terms of government operating expenditure, can be refuted by facts. I would refer to Mrs Hohn Krisztina's comment only because she advocated protecting the local government and protecting the local authorities. Then, in fact, I think it is appropriate to say that the municipal subsystem has been closed with a surplus throughout recent years. When we talk about the stability of local governments, the leeway of local governments, I think that financial indicators should be looked at first. Secondly, we need to look at the measures that we have implemented. Over a thousand billion forints was the debt that the municipalities had been freed from. And if the municipalities consider that they have to manage responsibly, that they cannot have a lack of operation, that they can only borrow for development purposes if their expected revenues enable them to repay the loan, then, yes, I think that there has been a necessary and important change in the life of the municipalities in this respect. This has led us to see more stable municipal farming today than before these legislative changes, let us say, before 2010. The congresswoman also talked about the salaries of civil servants and the salaries of municipal officials. Firstly, I would like to note that the category of civil servants covers a very wide circle. Public employees are health workers, public employees are teachers. We know what wage increases have been made for them. We also know that, with their own management freedom, when they were responsible for raising wages, the municipalities did so. Thus, in the current municipal wage structure, we see that many municipalities have increased the salary base, as their financial resources have enabled higher wages to be paid. Next year's budget will move forward by setting a budget of HUF 11 billion for municipalities operating under worse financial conditions, from which civil servants employed in those municipalities, i.e. those who work for office work, can raise wages, as I have said, many municipalities have already been able to make this increase in their own resources for municipal civil servants. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát Member [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Present.]] He said that the government's operating expenses were increasing significantly, he said about 170 billion forints. These items are presented on page 284 of the submitted bill. Indeed, the issue of the state's operating functions is increasing by HUF 167 billion. [[16.50]] But let's see what these items are. This includes protection and law enforcement and public security. It has been said that the growth of these two areas is well over HUF 150 billion. It is not true that the State spends such a surplus on its own direct operation, so to speak, on the operation of the administration. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is why we are showing in detail in which areas the planned 2019 edition changes compared to the 2018 edition. The issue of so-called general community services is increasing by HUF 15 billion. This includes expenditure on technical development from basic research through the expenditure of legislative and implementing organisations, and here we see a wavering movement. In 2018, there are investments that run out, which will reduce the planned amount for 2019. This is true, for example, of issuing legislative and enforcement organisations. If we look at the narrowly taken public operating expenditure, I respectfully ask Members to look at this line and also to talk about the fact that, in addition to the exit of individual investments, it has already been said in this debate, the state is expecting wage increases for government officials as well. Obviously, if the wages of government officials increase, the expenditure on that item will increase. I felt that there was a consensus on this. Mr Lajos Korózs also mentioned state expenditure and state revenue. He said that the state is collecting a lot of money, that state withdrawals are increasing. At times like this, I'm asking you to look at the lot. If we are talking about the increase in the state's fiscal revenues, then, Mr President, we must also add that this increase in revenue can be achieved by increasing the tax rates and that revenue may increase as a result of the growth in the economy, the number of employees and the increase in real wages. Then let's look back over the last few years and look at the budget of 19! Tax rates on employment taxes have been reduced. For families with two children, the tax reduction is also increased in 19 of the personal income tax. There has been a substantial reduction in the social contribution tax, but despite tax reductions and despite the increase in tax incentives, this new scheme leaves more than HUF 360 billion for families. Despite this, thanks to God, personal income tax revenues or social contribution tax are increasing. Why? Because in Hungary there has been a substantial increase in the average of the European Union since the turn of growth in 2013, and not only the expansion of the economy is, in my opinion, an impressive figure in European terms, but also the development of the number of employees and real wages. As a result, the tax bases increased to a greater extent than the loss of revenue due to the reduction of the key could have been assumed. I must disprove the claim that the state has extracted funds from its welfare functions. Let's look at the categories of welfare expenditure again. We have often said, today and earlier, that yes, by the way, unemployment-related expenditure has decreased, along with the increase in unemployment aid as planned in 2019, as said by the Member. But again, why? Is it because the number of unemployed is increasing? [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Congressman, or is it because unemployment benefits match your previous salary? Isn't it that last year's wage increase was two figures, real wage increase, and gross wages could increase by more than 10 percent this year? And in 2019, we also expect that wage growth at national level could be close to 9 percent. Obviously, if wages increase, the number of unemployed may decrease, but again the increase in the wage burden can result in a nominal increase in the total amount of unemployment-related expenditure, which has been substantially reduced compared to 2010. Unemployment was around 12 percent in 2010, with 3.8 percent at the end of last year. Again, I have to say that there was no withdrawal from health care or education, and I mean nominal amounts by withdrawal, and by withdrawal, I mean, if we look at the situation compared to 2010, the real values corrected by inflation. Obviously, we cannot talk about withdrawal in the field of health or education in 2019 either, on the contrary, these expenditure items are increasing. I repeat that the absolute HUF 15 billion increase in education will be achieved next year, compared to this year, with the cyclicality of EU funds reducing EU use projects by nearly HUF 90 billion, as investments will be made this year, which will result in a reduction in EU funding for education in 2019 compared to 2018. This reduction is offset and even exceeded by the growth of items with purely domestic funding. As regards the reduction of the social contribution tax, I must state that the government is holding to the agreement concluded in 2016 with the social partners, employers' and employees' representatives. This agreement states that a reduction of the social contribution tax rate by 2 percentage points could be achieved in line with the increase in the real wage of the competition sector. It will take place when we can meet the said wage increase condition when the HCSO provides information on this. I can also say that the agreement also makes it possible that if there is such a wage explosion in the Hungarian economy, which would allow for two amendments within the year, the government will keep to its promise and, even in the course of the year, will announce another reduction. I should also mention that this agreement has fixed an increase in the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage for two years and an exact reduction in the rate of social contribution tax. Thank God, this year there will be a wage increase that has allowed a reduction in the social contribution tax rate of 2,5 percentage points, not by 2 percentage points originally calculated. I repeat, the reduction of 2 percentage points in 2019 will take place when wage changes under the agreement are made. We can't say a specific date for this at the moment. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, there must be no person in the public sector or elsewhere who earns below the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage. No way! The purpose of wage compensation, as you know, is to earn at least the amount of public sector employees in 2019, which was level 18. However, this is a very small part of the public sector that needs this amount, so to speak. Moreover, in health care, for example, wage compensation continues to be paid by a substantial increase in earnings. I have to say that there was a substantial increase in health care workers in 2012-13, and then in 2016 under a multi-annual agreement, the salary of nurses increased by 26,5 percent in the first year of the agreement, by 12 percent in the second year, by 8 percent, and by another 8 percent in the next year's budget. In addition to these wage increases, the relevant layer will also receive wage compensation. But what I would like to say is that, on the one hand, the minimum wage has the statistics in front of me, and I must mention the last eight years, after all, the nominal gross amount has increased by 88 percent between 2010 and 18 years. Net growth and, more importantly, real growth and inflation-adjusted growth were 29.9 percent for those who did not have children. If someone had a child and earned a minimum wage, then the real earnings increase was 44.1 percent, I stress: real earnings. That's 79,5 percent for children with two children, and 90 percent for those with three children. I don't want to talk about the period before 2010, but here's the last eight years, and in case of questions, I'd be happy to tell you how these numbers turned out earlier. However, I am saying this because, in recent years, I believe that there has been a significant increase in wages for those working on the minimum wage, and I must rebut the allegations made in the keynote speeches that the budget serves social fragmentation in terms of the year 2018 or in terms of the year. [[17.00]] On the contrary, I have listed the change in the real earnings of employees with minimum wage to see that, yes, a very significant increase in real earnings, taking into account tax changes and inflation. As far as the public sector is concerned as the closing of wage increases is concerned, there are 700,000 employees in the budget bodies in the order of magnitude. For more than 550 thousand of these 700 thousand, there has been a substantial increase in wages up to this year. And when I'm using the word "emotional" I can tell you the soldiers, the police, the educators, the nurses, a wide circle. There were 150,000 people employed in budgetary bodies, where there was no wage increase with a systemic, central measure, but also here, for example, a number of wage increases were made by municipal civil servants according to local financial possibilities. Next year's draft budget law will continue on this path by promising wage increases in line with the performance of the economy next year. We're counting on a substantial increase. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to understand that I can now report that the reserves include the resources needed to raise wages. In this matter, the government has not yet made the decision at the specific rate of wage increase or in its schedule, but I repeat: next year's budget law is designed to cover the wage increase for government officials and, as such, 11 billion HUF. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-06-27-73	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. President himself surprised me with a quick two-minute opportunity. I am very sorry that Mr State Secretary did not state in his reply what euro exchange rate we were at when the draft budget was planned [[Péter Banai Benő: In it, 311.]] But now it's calming me down. That is why I would like to ask you further questions, because I see that we can hope for meaningful answers. It is absolutely clear that the appropriation of extraordinary government measures, which is increasing by one and a half times, Mr Secretary of State, is intended to be increased to HUF 165 billion, and the National Defence Fund continues to have a very large amount, HUF 60 billion, together they constitute pocket money for the government, as the government decides to spend this amount in decisions, typically avoiding the call of Parliament. I would be interested in your professional justification and your justification as to why there is a need to separate such an amount, because in recent decades there has not been an extraordinary situation, which would not have allowed Parliament to be convened within, say, a week. In the case of floods, force majeure, natural disasters, and others, I think that God treats us with a little too much for hundreds of billions of forints, and I very much hope that it will not be necessary for such an amount. What was more typical was the government's decision to spend this amount in pocket money in decisions, but that would not be the government's job, and the Parliament could have more say. Unfortunately, the principle of reasonable detail in this respect cannot be respected by the government, and in others some appropriations are negotiated in the order of ten million, for example, in Chapter I the public offerings of former Presidents of the Republic, while elsewhere we do not know any meaningful information about ten billion items, such as the HUF 89 billion item costs of other organizations in the defence portfolio. So what we see is that there is a clear imbalance and the question is why the government has to provide hundreds of billions of dollars of pocket money in this case. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-74	Thank you, Congressman. I'm telling you, my monitor slipped, and it wasn't really a two-minute comment. [[Defiance.]] So now we're going back to normal speeches. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I was the one who was most disturbed!]] And at the end of this round, you won't have a chance to tell Jobbik for two minutes, because that's gonna be fair and proper, so I apologize. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2018-06-27-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for next year's budget sends a message that its author, the government, considers it important to ensure the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. And we agree on that. The proposal devotes HUF 512 billion, 1.16 percent of GDP to the defence, which is HUF 86 billion more than this year's amount. This additional resource and the planned budgetary increases in the coming years aim to create a strong, powerful defence. The basic pillar of this is the plan for the development of the force, Zrínyi 2026, the elements of which are included according to the schedule of the draft. Immigration in Europe and the associated threat of terrorism and its consequences for public security will be the main challenges of the coming years. That is why the draft before us provides HUF 350 billion for public security, for the operation and development of the police. For counter-terrorism tasks, 25 billion HUF will be allocated. This is 23.5 billion more than this year's available framework. As of January, the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent, which, together with previous increases, will increase by 50 percent. The 2019 draft budget includes the salary of nearly 3,000 new border-hunting young police officers from the Alert Police staff who have been trained in recent years. I am particularly pleased that the case for the placement of these young police officers will be settled after 12 barracks are built in the country. One of these projects is made in Nyírbátor, with an investment value of more than HUF 1 billion, in the barracks of István Báthori, which was previously under the control of the border guard. While the Socialists established a migrant camp from this barracks around 2005, the Fidesz-KDNP government will continue to build and develop the barracks, deploy border hunting units to protect the country and protect the European external borders. To sum up: Hungary's safety is the first in 2019, so please support the current proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-76	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, on behalf of DK.
u2018-06-27-77	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This budget is a budget for crumbling. This budget is bulging for the country and for the inhabitants of Teresa and Elisabeth. This budget is moving away from the European standard of living and away from safety. This budget does not only mean moving away from the European standard of living, but also away from the quality of life and safety of the neighbouring countries, the budget of the break-off. Budget for 2019 submitted by the Government... [[At the intervention of Dr. István Vitányi, turning to the president:]] I'm sorry, I can't talk because he keeps interrupting. Thank you very much. The draft 2019 budget presented by the government does not attempt to solve the most important problems of Hungarian society. A constant threat to the majority remains the break-off, the deterioration of its situation and the deterioration of its family. [[17.10]] About a third of society continues to live at or below the minimum level of existence, essentially from month to month, and has no hope of ascension. My constituency, my Budapest VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Districts are in a better position than the national average, but the people who live here also expect state aid in a number of areas. We can rightly be proud that after years of struggle, UNESCO officially declared the Andrássy road and the surrounding streets as part of the world's heritage, and the Jewish quarter, which represents a large part of the inner-Erzsébet city. These downtown parts attract a lot of visitors from both foreign and domestic countries, who generate significant revenue for the budget and take the good news of the capital and our country far away. World heritage status, however, is not only a privilege, it also entails obligations. Most of the public areas and houses in Andrássy Avenue and the Jewish quarter await renovation. Neither district authorities nor residents can bear this burden alone. An example of this was burned down four years ago on the Kodály circle and since then an uninhabitable condominium. Contrary to previous practice, a substantial public and EU source of tender should be opened in the new cycle, which can be specifically applied for by residential communities and local governments of the capital's World Heritage Sites. In Teresa and Erzsébetváros, however, not only in the world heritage areas, but also in the rest of the district, it would be necessary to renovate and modernise condominiums in a thousand sizes. The culturally attractive downtown has a prominent urban and tourist significance. In my constituency, more and more elderly people live, so it is critical to build as many lifts as possible in houses built in the last century and to upgrade existing lifts. In the last cycle, the government has spent a large part of the EU's resources to renovate public institutions, which can be used. At national level, the sources of tender for condominiums were sufficient for a fraction of the buildings to be renovated and typically provided for partial modernisation, such as energy. In particular, there were numerous condominiums in Erzsébetváros and Terézváros, since the houses built before 1947 were excluded from the applications with a noble simplicity. Paradigm shifts are needed in the coming years, and condominiums are now a priority for public institutions. The city of Prague is a positive example of how the whole city could be gradually and fully renewed with significant public involvement, the provision of tender resources, the contribution of the municipality and the residents. The buildings in Budapest before 1945 should not be discriminated against, but should be supported in the course of the tender, as these are also the priority interests of posterity in the national and capital. More resources should also be provided for this. What awaits the students of Teresa and Elizabeth next year? Unfortunately, it's not very good. It has already been said that the government spends 15 billion forints more on education. That's pathetic. The total budget for education is HUF 2356 billion. If it grows by 15 billion, it is less than practically half a percent, i.e. the government will add 60 cents to 100 forints. Once again, for 100 forints, the government will give you 60 pennies extra money. On this basis, the real value of supporting education will not only be increased next year, but will be substantially reduced. What's even more interesting is that, according to the plan, support for church schools is increasing from 194 billion to 230 billion, which is an 18 percent increase. With a total increase of 37 billion in total education support, church education will receive 36 billion more money next year and 5 billion in support of church higher education. That way, students in public schools will get less money next year than they got this year. In the field of education, the huge difference between the support of students attending church and public schools continues to increase. He's already getting 3.4 times more for a student attending church school than he did this year. Next year, that difference will continue to grow. It is not necessary to reduce the support of church schools, but to raise the support of the KLIK state-owned schools to the level of church schools. Budget resources should be provided for this. The pensioners will also lose the budget. Next year, the 2.7 percent leanness increase you have said will only be given to pensioners, while the goods they buy are constantly increasing. In addition, net earnings have increased by 10-12-13 percent in recent years, whereas pensions have increased by 2.5-3 percent. Next year, it will be corrected to the same extent as forecast inflation by approximately 2.7 percent. As a result, the gap between pensions and wages is rapidly increasing. In the inner Erzsébetváros and in the southern part of Terézváros, in recent years, a fun area has developed that has become a tourist destination at European level, the state and the capital are clear winners. The central budget achieved a tax revenue of billions of HUF annually from the entertainment and catering venues in the party district, and the quarter became an integral part of the tourist attractions of Budapest. However, Elizabeth and Teresa will suffer all the negative effects of the party district. Huge noise, garbage load, the associated increased public safety, public cleanliness tasks. Unfortunately, there is almost no government help for this. I propose that the state budget should provide the Terézváros municipality with an additional HUF 1 billion per year to finance the increased public tasks of the municipality in Erzsébetváros and HUF 500 million per year at the expense of the tax collected from the party district. It is necessary to increase the surveillance tax on night-time entertainment and catering venues in order to ensure a more proportionate participation in district public burdens. Finally, I would like to say that, according to all surveys, Hungarian people are most concerned about health care and health care problems. The Péterfy Sándor Utcai Hospital not only participates in the care of the residents of Teréz and Erzsébetváros, but also in the care of several counties. Taking into account that the government's planned budget figures for 2019 on health, unfortunately, as we have seen, foresee a worsening of the situation, this budget, which is not sufficient to maintain it at the level, contains paradoxically restrictions when it is supposed to be in the top of the economy and perform exemplary. This also means that the problems and problems of the Péterfy Sándor Street Hospital and Specialist's Office, as well as the problems and problems of basic care, will be maintained, and the malfunctions will be deepened. In addition to the ever-empty practice of GPs and dentists, problems can also be seen in the area of child care. The metropolitan hospital reconstruction programme was designed with fundamentally incorrect emphasis. It is not necessary to build an elite hospital in the middle of a wasteland without transport infrastructure and a former swampy area, but to put existing hospitals in order in all areas. It is unacceptable for the people of my constituency that the Péterfy Hospital has not been included in the central hospitals in the capital, while the renovation resources will be transferred to these hospitals only for many years. As a first step, it is appropriate that if the debts of hospitals were to be settled every year, even more than once, they would be calculated in advance so as not to be such a subsequent fire-fighting. In the second round, based on surveys, it can be said that about HUF 15 billion is needed for the reconstruction of the building, with which the Péterfy Street Hospital is a new, modern, XXI. It can be developed into a 100th-century hospital, and 5 billion forints for the acquisition of assets, which will not only allow us to repair buildings, but also include instruments that meet the requirements of a XXI. Expecting a modern hospital in the century. This HUF 20 billion should be provided in the budget, whether instead of stadiums, or even rather than letting the Tao money out of the hands of the government, but instead being properly transferred into the budget and provided to health care. Last but not least, we need substantial wage improvements that can appreciate and keep our doctors and nurses from among the best in the world. However, in order to meet these criteria and requirements, the conditions detailed above must be fulfilled in order to ensure the work of Péterfy Hospital. On behalf of the inhabitants of Teresa and Elizabeth, I ask that the budget law be amended in the spirit that I have said. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2018-06-27-78	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, on behalf of Fidesz. [[17.20]]
u2018-06-27-79	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to budgetary legislation, I would like to make a few points. Although it is a general debate, I think that details should also be addressed, especially because our opposition fellow Members are constantly trying to criticise the 2019 Central Budget Law proposal through details. For my part, in line with my fellow Members and in agreement with them, I look at this bill as a budget for safe growth, we see financial and economic stability in it, and we see decisions that we absolutely want to support and support. The budgetary opportunities for protection, public security, education, health care, retirement, culture, agriculture, forest, fish and game management, environmental protection, and we can also spend more on sovereign debt management. If you will allow me, I would like to talk about the budget for sport for the Committee on Culture, because we are seeing a budget increase of 58.5 billion, and I would like a little of this, if you will allow me, to deal with the details, and, as a rural representative, to talk about why we can support this proposal for a budget law. We also consider it important to develop educational institutions for sport purposes, sports professional development and association development. If you'll allow me, I'd like to give you a few examples from Baranya County or my constituency. In the town of Sásd, there will soon be a school that will provide children in the area with the possibility of daily physical education and of learning how to swim. The same decision was made with regard to the town of Szentlőrinc, where the city will soon finish the debate on where to place the school, and we hope that this investment will be completed in the coming years. The school development programme will also be launched in Vajszló. In addition, after the construction of the sewage pipeline, it will be possible to build a pool of not 25 metres, but 33 metres. In addition, in my constituency there are two schools, one in Siklós and the other in Szigetvár. In Szigetvár, the Hungarian government and EU funds were able to support the renewal of this swimming pool through energy modernisation. If we go further in relation to the settlements, because we are talking about Hungary, we also handed over a artificial grass field to the children in Two New Walls a few days ago, where 60 children will be able to play football regularly, and in Vásárosdombó we were able to pass a artificial grass field in connection with the renovation of the school. Tibor Sagittarius has been to this school several times, so I think they also acknowledge that there is significant sport activity in this school. But let's just keep going, and let's not just talk about football. The Szisvár wrestling association with the oldest history in Hungary will receive the building permit to build a wrestling hall tomorrow. Péter Módos began wrestling with them when he was five years old, who reached the third place in the Olympics. Let's talk a little bit about the county seat and the specifics. At the county seat, the Pécs gymnasium was handed over a few months ago, which is a more than 800 square meter gymnasium. The National Basketball Academy will soon be ready, where three courts, colleges and related facilities will be implemented. The basketball hall of Pécs VSK is also being built for the next hundred years. In addition, the government strongly supports recreational port development because we want to address the population, and we want the population to find sports facilities near their place of residence. So far 107 sports parks, 5 running circles of 200 meters and 5 400 meters have been implemented, and if you look at the budget, you will see that in 2019 nearly HUF 2.5 billion will be discovered and then spent by the municipalities that will receive it through the tenders. I'd also like to talk about disabled sports. Here's the basic forecast for HUF 460 million. This will be distributed on the basis of a proposal from the Hungarian Paralympic Committee. There is a sure source for competitions and participation in foreign competitions, and the Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholarship will also be available to athletes. One thing I would definitely like to talk about is the Hungarian Association for Nature Walking, where 450 million HUF is also available in order to carry out their activities in 2019. If I may, I would like to talk about one or two more very important amounts from a rural point of view. The Hungarian gym-building program, because it is mentioned, is included in our budget with HUF 3 billion, and the school-building program is also included in the investment in the swimming pool in Gödöllő and Veszprém. And obviously it is very important for the county seat that we also include HUF 1.5 billion in the budget for the infrastructure development of the Pécs Vasutas Sports Circle. And perhaps two more ideas to close; I do not want to waste time, but I would like to talk about why it is important that we discuss the sports budget so thoroughly. The Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholarship covers nearly 35 sports, and nearly a thousand people benefit from this support system. The prestigious coaching program, in which we support the coaches of our Olympic champions and our World Champions, our European champions, is included in the program with nearly 200 players. There is also a follow-up training programme, and 346 people receive support, and the Sports Star Scholarship for young people is also included in our budget. Here last year, 177 people received support. And one more thought: Since 2010, every single budget and the 2019 budget have supported sport. In Hungary, 5 percent of the Hungarian population played sports regularly before 2010, which means that they went out at least twice a week. This ratio has now proven to have increased to around 15 percent. The number of certified athletes has increased from 242 thousand to 501,000 in the last year. And if you look at Tao's sports, there's 155,000 more sports there. I think that this is basically the largest health-preservation programme in Hungary. In 2010, the government set a goal to make all children play sports. All of this is covered by Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 20th century has provided opportunities in sports facilities that represent an improvement for children, young people and older people who want to play sports. The draft law on the central budget for 2019 will enable these basic objectives to be achieved. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-80	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár of the LMP.
u2018-06-27-81	Thank you for the floor. Before I go to a few parts, I would like to respond to a question raised by my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, in the keynote speaker, and then there was an answer, if I remember correctly, from the Secretary of State, and I would like to respond to it. He said, Secretary of State, that he received a 15% increase, then a 5% and a 5% increase during your administration. I would like to ask you to tell me what this is nominally like for an average care fee of HUF 47,000. So what they're so proud of is what they've raised by 15 percent. The thing is, there's a philosophical debate here between my political community and the government, because we think anyone who receives a care fee is doing the job. If you look at this very coldly, heartlessly, you're also doing work because the person he's caring for doesn't have to pay the cost of saying that he's in hospice or social institution. But the fact is that the care fee is also a job, because a person who cares for a sick relative, mother, or child is doing a job for which the state would otherwise pay someone in an institution. So the fact that you are raising it by 7,500, 2,500 or 3000 forints a year is partly philosophically incorrect and partly humiliatingly few. These people, and there are many of them, and I will come back to this later, and you have humiliated them with so little money every year for the past eight years, and that is not a real solution for those who care for their sick relatives. I would also like to add that you have said that those who have had this relationship for 20 years have benefited from it. It's a good thing they took a step in this direction, but there are very few of them. So it's numerically very little, most people didn't do it for 20 years, but did it for a lot less time. So this is no solution in any way for the vast majority of people who are currently receiving a care fee. [[17 .30]] There have been a few comments and I am sorry that Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has just left the room, even though she has been sitting here - which has been such an individual voice, yet there have been some that we have missed painfully. As an ecological party, the LMP lacked the need for Mónika Dunai to speak for its constituency in order to reduce the noise pollution of the Ferihegy airport, and that the budget does not want to provide funding in any way, even though we believe that those people deserve to live their daily lives without noise, despite the fact that Red Bull Air Race in downtown has already been included in this similar noise pollution. Again, for the first time in my short parliamentary work, I would like to say that Mr Rétvári is not here, and that he has been missing the speech about the renewal of the Vác-Szob bicycle route for the time being, but hopefully this will happen in the future. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State, if he will reply in detail because he always misses the numbers - that if we are still present, but one of the opposition representatives will surely be present, my dialogue colleague will surely [[Defiance.]] respond to what exactly and how the environmental budget has increased. So when they said the environmental budget was increasing, what were they thinking, because we were really trying to keep an eye on it, but we didn't... [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] So we tried very hard to see how the environmental budget could have been increased, but we didn't really find an answer. Here, the Secretary of State responded to my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, and said many things. I'd like to draw your attention to two things. One of the things he didn't respond to at any level is why the government didn't separate funds from the central budget for the lower roads, why the low-level roads after your eight-year government are the same as we all know what they are, and we don't need to describe it - why they couldn't redistribute a separate source for this. I'd like to get to the point of making a point. They are constantly talking about demographic change and the year of families, but there is also a family that you do not support, who are adversely affected by your budget, which has not been mentioned in the room, and who are a significant part of the Hungarian families: these are single parents, families where single mothers or fathers raise their children. Most of the time, they're out of control in this state, and just because they don't look the way you imagine a family in a picture, they don't get any help. We know precisely that it is very difficult in Hungary to support children with a salary, so they must receive special help. This is the special help proposed by the LMP, and I ask you to consider, if you have already asked for constructive dialogue - to increase the family allowance directly for them, so that we increase the family allowance for single-parent families, and that you receive the same benefits that large families receive. Furthermore, social workers have been mentioned, but what I would like to add in substance is that these people provide 600,000 people, and there are about 100,000 of them. For nine years, the public service payroll has been frozen, and it is always supplemented by allowances. But once the pay table is finally settled, it would not be necessary to constantly give allowances overnight, but at the same time, when it is arranged, it would help everyone, for example, social workers, those who do one of the most difficult jobs. I go further: there is not a large number of groups, but a significant loser of the budget, who have constantly received very little from teacher wage development, who have always missed the wage development that you promise to teachers, they are music and art teachers. They also do important work, yet they keep missing out on the teacher's wage increase they usually announce. I go further: but there is another group of workers who are looking for particularly humiliating wages - daycare and kindergarten workers. Nursing and kindergarten workers, when we talk about the year of families and demographic governance, play a very important role. Let us not talk about the fact that, despite the government's success propaganda, the number of children who have been rejected has increased from 2016 to 17 and then from 17 to 18, so there are more and more children who do not have cradle seats, but also the wages of daycare workers have not been settled in the ninth year of your administration. In addition, there was a previous LMP amendment, which was accepted by the government in the previous cycle, which was not enough, so I can give you this one example - the institution of family daycare centers that could replace crèches many times, and that would be a way for people to earn extra income, and the others would be able to get back to work with it. There has been no progress in this, and there is also no specific budgetary framework for this. I'm going to go on to a very quiet subject, which, although part of the health care system, is particularly important, and this is a matter of psychiatry. Here, in spite of my previous speech, I am also slipping into a very short past eight years; we know what happened to OPNI, we do not need to detail this, but still the situation of psychiatric patients has not been resolved. They're in terrible bad conditions. What and exactly how much the TB covers for such a patient after a psychiatric mental illness has been diagnosed is completely unconventional, and one of the proposals of the LMP is that for psychiatric nurses, since they are doing particularly difficult work, there should be a hazard supplement and a wage supplement. This is constantly being swept down by the government, yet these people deserve to be paid for the work they do. Plus, there's a huge shortage of professionals, precisely because of the low pay. A citizen came to us, working as a psychiatric nurse in a county hospital, said he worked as a psychiatric nurse for the fifth year, and for the fifth year now, he has a net salary of 118 thousand. And I'd like to return to home care for a few moments. In home care, there is another problem, especially for children with special or special needs, that in home care, a fixed amount is given. There were citizens who contacted us, also in the same county-righted city, who raised two children of autism with a spectrum disorder, and received a care fee of HUF 47,000, and the fact that they raised two of these children does not appear anywhere, although in some respects they have more costs, since they have to pay twice for the special uplifting education, they have to obtain two tools, but this does not appear at any level in their support. That the Secretary of State is here, I would like to ask you that there are two more jobs that the government has not arranged for the wage increase eight years ago, one of which is those working in heritage conservation, and the museum workers, their wages are very low. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's been eight years. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] They also could not arrange the wages of actors and theatre workers. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-27-82	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. Congressman László Varju has the floor.
u2018-06-27-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Secretary of State responded to a number of things here, and I would like to highlight only one thing in the professional framework, and I would like to draw his attention to the fact that he knows precisely that if the gap in emissions is positive in Hungary and is there, in this case we do have to count on inflation growth, and you argued that the rate of inflation, if the National Bank of Hungary said 3.1 percent, would be his opinion, he could say in other words that he was lost as a dog to water, and that he would be counting 2.7. And I say that this should not be done because of such risks, because if we add to this the short-term impact of the Hungarian National Bank's loose monetary policy, which is favourable to the real economy, but certainly carries very serious risks in terms of inflation, then you cannot ignore the Hungarian National Bank's signal in this respect. So you must withdraw this budget, redesign it, there is no other option if it continues than today's case of further deterioration for the broken Hungarian forint. This also contributes to moving away from Europe, and there is no possibility for those who would like to live better, they prefer to leave Hungary, because those who have a better opportunity here are privileged. [[17.40]] They can see and see nothing else, because after eight years, they're back to government power. At Fidesz, the same centralized operation remains, there is nothing more than the buddy circle, who otherwise cannot expect better construction in this single-centre Hungarian model. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-27-84	Thank you, Congressman. We're going back to normal speaking order. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2018-06-27-85	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Dear House, Listening to the previous issues, I would like to go a little further now, since the government also expresses its commitment to the protection of national sovereignty, which was also taken into account in the planning of the budget. Diplomacy is an essential tool for the protection of national sovereignty, so allow me to speak specifically about the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. First of all, we must conclude that the Ministry's budget is increasing significantly again this year. This growth has been unbroken for many years now, just like in all other areas of the budget. The increase is HUF 72 billion compared to this year, which corresponds to nearly 40 percent, and shows both the expansion of the classic foreign affairs tasks and the further strengthening of the foreign economic focus. Nearly half of this 72 billion-dollar increase, more than HUF 34 billion, comes from a surplus of support for cross-border economic development programmes. In 2018, HUF 16 billion is available for this purpose, and next year this amount will increase to HUF 50 billion. The second major item is that the Information Office will be managed by the Ministry. That's 14 billion forints. The third important element of the growth is that more than HUF 16 billion will be allocated to foreign representation investments instead of 5 forints. Finally, as a fourth, it is worth mentioning that next year the amount available for tied aid loans will be nearly double this year's HUF 8 billion and HUF 15 billion. These four items represent a total increase of HUF 66 billion, which is why it is worth considering separately. First of all, Hungary's Government launched an economic development programme in 2016 in areas inhabited by Hungarians across the border. The first programmes in Vojvodina and Transcarpathia were followed in 2017 by the economic development programmes in Muravidék, Croatia, Transylvania and Upperlands, resulting in thousands of successful applications and thousands of jobs. These economic development programmes have been a major success over the last 2.5 years. We have been able to contribute to the economic strengthening of Hungarian territory across the border and to the quality of life of communities living there, thus making it easier for them to thrive in their homeland. With these economic development measures, the national government has contributed substantially to the economic strengthening of Hungarian families across the border. As a first step in economic development, the aim is always to support families living in agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby contributing to the strengthening of the whole region. Successful programmes will continue, but their budget will increase more than threefold next year. These subsidies have a positive impact on the economic life and trade along the border, and this is clearly visible in the counties concerned, whether Nógrád, Borsodrol, Hajdú or Szabolcs counties. The second item, the Information Office, is one of the elements of the tool system for safeguarding Hungary's security, which also contributes to reducing the terrorist threat of immigration in Europe. The Office's budget in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is new, but it's basically the same as its time. This third part will amount to HUF 16 billion next year for foreign representation investments. More than HUF 5 billion is available for the purchase of the property providing accommodation for the Embassy of Hungary in Beijing. Two weeks ago, Parliament negotiated an international contract for this purchase. So this is about Hungary buying the building, which has been rented since 1969, in the neighbourhood of the Beijing government district. Nearly HUF 3.5 billion is available for the construction of the Warsaw commercial branch, more than 2 billion for the transformation of the Washington embassy building according to the expectations of the age, and around 1 billion for our embassy in Kiev. For the opening of the Oman embassy, the government spends 430 million forints. The fourth part, tied aid lending, is an important and effective tool for Hungarian export promotion. In addition, strengthening the export capacity of Hungarian companies is a priority task of the Ministry's external economic portfolio. Since 2014, both Hungarian exports and the volume of investments in Hungary have reached a record every year. In 2017, exports exceeded EUR 100 billion. The government's aim is that, in addition to maintaining our positions in our traditional export markets, we turn even more towards areas with high growth potential, in these areas we also increase the presence of domestic companies. It is particularly important to increase the export capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Our aim is to reduce the competitive advantage on the external market by price advantage, rather by providing high standards, service flexibility, expertise and reliability for domestic businesses. Foreign economic success goes beyond the numbers. In fact, they mean the preservation of jobs, the creation of new jobs, wage growth, development and innovation. The new tender, which the Ministry will issue for the first time in 2019 with a total budget of HUF 500 million, will also help to stimulate exports. In addition to these export development tasks, the Ministry directly supports Hungary's water industry export efforts by reorganizing the Budapest Water Summit. For the third time after the 2013 and 16 years, the main objective of the meeting is the international positioning of domestic water capacities, thus opening up new export opportunities. In addition to boosting exports, we also need to talk about investment promotion. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the promotion of investments in foreign capital flows, foreign direct investment and the further development of investments already made remains crucial. The main aim is to bring in productive investments that generate additional supplies for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, create jobs, or bring new technology, innovative solutions and modern production culture to Hungary. These large investments will also help to create thousands of indirect jobs for the supplier industry. The professional organization of investment promotion in Hungary is the National Investment Agency, with the support of which a positive decision was made in 2017 for around one hundred investment projects, resulting in 17 thousand new jobs and EUR 3.5 billion of foreign capital coming into the country. Ladies and gentlemen, So these are the four elements that account for the lion's share of the growth of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade budget, out of 72, for 66 billion. At the same time, it should be mentioned that there are several of the classic diplomatic and foreign policy tasks to which significant additional resources are allocated. These include, above all, the worthy renewal of Gül Baba's turbé and its environment, which is one of the tangible impressions of outstanding and extremely important Hungarian-Turkish diplomatic relations in Budapest. For the purpose of organising the Water Summit, the government, the Centre of Democracy Public Foundation, will spend 500 million forints more than 200 million forints this year. This year, double the amount of HUF 200 million is available for international development cooperation, which plays an important role in the fight against migration in helping the issuing countries. [[17.50]] Overall, therefore, the 2019 budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is a budget for growth and growth. These resources will be used by the Ministry to increase the country, and spending will be paid back many times. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig of Jobbik.
u2018-06-27-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Health and the problems of the constituency, where I live, where I grew up, and now I live, I have brought these subjects here. First, I would like to return to Mr Secretary of State's speech, in which he said that in the past two years there has been a remarkable increase in wages in health and that he forgets to say, Mr Secretary of State, and he also said that the employer has added an employer's contribution to their wages to workers who have not reached the minimum wage. I wouldn't call that a wage increase. I'd call it a pay cut. I think it's the right thing to do. When the health wage increase came, then this amount, which the employer paid for the supplement, was reduced proportionately, so their wages did not change anything in two years. It is also true that this does not apply to employees in the entire health care system, but it is part of the whole truth. We have also heard in the expoze that health is the great asset of this, and they think that health will be the biggest beneficiary of this budget, because there will be hundreds of billions more than in the 2018 budget. But we forget that if we look at the data that health economists have mentioned in recent years, at the moment 300 billion is the amount that is missing from the budget. It may be that the Socialist Government made a mistake in the past, since it has taken away resources in health care, but it cannot always be pointed back. It's been eight years, and since then, this system hasn't changed much. I worked in this system for 22 years, I worked at the hospital during the socialist government, at the National Rescue Service, I still had these problems, and I worked during the Orbán government, and these problems remained the same. There are 101 billion more health-related additional resources, and it has been revealed recently that the EU would, on the other hand, punish the Hungarian government by 100 billion for public procurement errors that have made road renovations and other such investments. Among them is Veszprém County, and if the news is true, this bypass of the Castle Palaces on Route 8, there is a 100% penalty for the government, which is HUF 6.3 billion, which will be repaid from taxpayers' forints. If this news isn't true, then let's buy another item. Health care will receive HUF 101 billion more, and if we look at the total hospital debt in the last six months, it will be HUF 50 billion in the last six months, and now the summer holiday period is coming, meaning that since there is three months of delayed funding in health care, there will be less revenue, the expenditure side will be the same for the institutions, so this amount is expected to reach HUF 75-80 billion in October, and the same 100 billion at the end of December and by the end of the year. That's what they say in the health budget, take nothing, take it well. I'm sure it's enough, but it's not going to be a growth cycle for health. If we look at the basic care, we look at the resources that the government uses, there is the 130 thousand HUF allowance for the primary care professionals, but there is a layer of work that does not benefit from this benefit. They are also carrying out a basic care operation within a healthcare funding, which is a dental care professional, which has been absent from this system for years, although they have been promised several times to benefit from this funding. Now, as I understand it, a petition has already been filed and collected. There is another victim, I think, of the health system and funding, especially in the 2019 budget, this is the funding of drugstores requested several times by the national pharmaceutical chamber for several years, especially for the maintenance of the on-call system for wages, to be supported by government, as the government requires that the pharmacy on-call system be maintained, whether at district level or at urban level. But he doesn't add the financing side, most of them live on self-sustaining businesses, they have to generate their own wages, and I think the same way the health system, that is, the hospital, the National Rescue Service, 80 percent of the incoming resources, is spent on wages and contributions. If we look at it and go back to the accumulation of hospital debt, it's very simple, and I think everyone in this room knows very well what it's coming from, they're just explaining it differently. Someone misinterprets it, someone tells them what they're coming from. Especially those who are in daily contact with a hospital director, hospital staff who work in the system, and do not produce the good news on a daily basis, especially two, but give the arguments and reasons that lead us here, unfortunately. Everyone knows that health funding is not good. My fellow Member, László Lukács, has also said that at several medical forums and congresses, it has come to light that the types of care they carry out, whether in a specialist clinic or in hospitals, are not financed by the expenditure side. I'm sure that those accumulated debt stocks will only increase. The other thing I said was that 80 percent go to wages and contributions, and there remains about a 20 percent item that can be used to pay rent, to transport garbage, to buy supplies if they can buy bandages, chemicals, cleaning products. But this 20 percent is not funding this whole system, and that's why this 50 billion-dollar debt is coming into existence for half the year. Another important part of health care and it is part of it, it is only always treated separately, the social sphere, and it has already been said here what conditions psychiatric patients really live in in the institutional system. In 2014, the government had already launched an EFOP call for proposals to replace highly inclusive social and psychiatric institutions, but I do not think that it was motivated by good intentions first. That was a $85 billion budget. Here, however, it should be added that these institutions have enormous capacity to accommodate 200 people in general. It is decided that they should be terminated by 2021. But if we look at and go to the institutions about what kind of buildings they are, then we can figure out how to do it, why now and why they do it in such a way that the largest advocacy organization is completely excluded from the preparation and implementation process. This is the EFOSZ, the National Association of People with Intellectual Disabilities, being excluded from this process. These buildings are castle buildings owned by the State or owned by individuals who have offered these institutions for social care purposes. They didn't offer it to the state to give it to its buddies in their own hands, they offered it to men to heal there. And if they say that there's no cure in outdated health facilities, I'll give you an example. In Veszprém County, you don't have to go far, state health center, heart hospital in Balatonfüred, it's in a beautiful castle building, it could also be renovated and patients can continue to heal there. Problems of the constituency. Sixty settlements belong to the 3rd constituency of Veszprém county, 4 towns and 56 settlements. [[18.00]] Each town manager, city manager, the first man in the village was pleased when the government announced what development resources could be requested within the framework of the territorial operational programme by the local authorities, the municipalities, and what improvements could be made, as a promising figure would have been of an aid intensity of 100%. Only one big problem is that, as we looked at the applications, we couldn't find in any place that we needed to be party to the government. If we look at the opposition settlements that have not sworn a feudal oath to the government, they will have minimum government resources. [[Towards the government benches.]] And I think they should laugh at that and we should cry. We're talking about a city of 33,000 in terms of Ajaka. From the €3.1 billion imported, nearly HUF 450 million was awarded to the tender. That's just over 10 percent of it. The town of Pope of the same size is 8.5 billion. We're not sorry about Pope, Ajka. This resource is scarce for lip, as it has identified the resources that could help the city to develop and make everyday life easier for the people there, as it has been an investment in infrastructure that they have not been able to carry out on their own over the years. With regard to Tapolca, we're talking about a city of 16,000. We also submitted a nearly 2.3 billion-dollar TOP application request to the county assembly, and interestingly, two of these applications were won, one of which was the renovation of a high school. The two years passed during the submission of the tender and the publication of the tender, the prices increased, and the amount of public procurement was much higher. At the moment, this budget would provide an opportunity to replace these missing funds for the municipalities concerned. I have tabled nearly 70 amendments to the budget that could help these settlements and those living there, since the development resources that were designated by the city leaders in their respective settlements have been forwarded to me, and not only to me, but also to the Fidesz Member of Parliament in the region, who identified these focal points in a problem map. I have allocated resources to these focal points as a solution proposal. These are the 70 budget amendments. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Since the MP there has also seen these mistakes, who is a pro-government Member, they have also been notified to him, I think I will also ask him to support these proposals so that the inhabitants of these 60 settlements can enjoy this budget. As I started, I'd like to finish it anyway. I think, who says here in this room today that the biggest beneficiary of the budget is health care, I'm not saying that he's lying, but he's slipping me pretty hard, that's for sure. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-27-88	Thank you very much. Welcome, and we will continue our work, with the speech of Congressman István Vitányi, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Security is a very important asset. There is no better proof that some of my fellow Members have already said a few words about this before me, and most recently, my colleague, Miklós Simon. So I would like to highlight this from another aspect. Security is a pillar of all societies that is essential for development. Next year's budget will also show that our primary objective is to protect the security of citizens. We will continue to devote more in 2019 to the security of the Hungarian people, whether it is the tasks related to illegal migration or to public security. One of the main objectives of next year's budget is to preserve and strengthen Hungary's security, which is made possible by the country's growing economy year after year. In this context, increasing the budget of law enforcement bodies is also of paramount importance. The consistent implementation of the measures planned to strengthen order and security is ensured in the budget. In this respect, the achievement of the objectives set, the task of the police, will enable the 2019 budget to provide more than HUF 28 billion in additional resources to the organisation, which will serve the high quality of the existing tasks. These tasks include, inter alia, the development of the police staff of 3,000 persons, as well as additional expenditure related to the introduction of the new criminal law law. I would like to say here that the improvement in public security, our security, is a value that is one of the first values for all Hungarian citizens, be it any settlement in the country. Increasing public security and the subjective sense of security of citizens are all values that bring growth to our citizens. There is a marked increase in police presence in our settlements, a reduction in crimes committed in public areas, and improvements and organisational changes to protect and protect citizens have a positive impact on their quality of life and their sense of security. To maintain the safety of everyday life, efforts and professional knowledge of the entire professional staff are also needed. Let me also briefly mention the positive changes in my constituency, which all show that we are on the right track to ensure our security. The county of Hajdú-Bihar is the fourth largest county in the country, with important national and international roads running through its territory. Tourism is of particular importance in the county, and guest traffic is also outstanding at national level. There are 82 municipalities in the area of responsibility of Hajdú-Bihar County Police Headquarters. All these conditions and circumstances have a significant impact on public security and on the tasks to be carried out to maintain the order of public spaces. In recent years, public security and effective action against infringements have been significantly improved, which also brings about a subjective sense of security for citizens. Not only have we kept it, but we have further improved the progress made. We also managed to further reduce the number of registered crimes. I would like to point out here that in my constituency, in the area of jurisdiction of the new police station in Berettyójfalu, this indicator has brought almost 14 percent improvement. This is a great achievement, and it is also apparent from the current draft budget law that this improved trend is expected to continue. The additional resources provided to the police will contribute both to the development of infrastructure and to ensuring that professional staff can work as efficiently as possible for our common security. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-27-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Allow me to read an article. While we were sitting here in Parliament's plenary session, the world was working out there, and there were some interesting things going on. At 16:2 p.m. the news appeared on the portfolio.hu news portal, the title of which is, I think, very important if we talk about the 2019 budget: Analysts are reviewing their earlier predictions in view of the fall of the forint, and now fewer and fewer people believe that the subscription to the euro will be reversed in 330. The historic summit has not yet been reached on Wednesday, but if you can believe professionals, it can only be a matter of days. What happened to our forint? In the last month, the forint has weakened by 2.3 percent against the euro, and since the beginning of the year, the exchange rate has risen by more than 5 percent. In the meantime, the Polish złoty fell, for example, 2.3 percent this year, while the Czech crown was able to grow by 2 percent. In recent weeks, we have remembered several times the reasons behind the infirmity of the forint, in short, if you allow it, Mr. Secretary:. The world's large central banks are slowly moving towards tightening up, the Fed, whose steps have strengthened the dollar and raised the US yield. A few weeks ago, the ECB announced that it would launch its asset purchase programme in two steps by the end of the year. [[18.10]] The above global processes have launched a withdrawal of capital from emerging markets, with the biggest losers so far being vulnerable countries, Argentina, Turkey and Brazil. Over the past month, the Italian government crisis has been worrying investors, who have thus turned to safer instruments. Worrying news about the American-Chinese trade war does not calm the markets. This has also been said several times today. On top of that, the Hungarian National Bank maintains the most interesting, ultra-cool monetary policy, and apparently does not intend to change that. In the message after the interest rate decision last week, the central bank moved a little towards the future tightening, then the forint was temporarily strengthened, but soon the investors realized that this was not a change in practice in the policy of the central bank either. Unfortunately, in recent days we have seen that politicians do not speak at the upper government level. Although I would add that Lajos Kósa is better off if he doesn't say anything, so he won't be able to cause more trouble than he did in 2010. I'd like to continue with the article. The above effects have led to the fact that it has already licked its historic low point in the forint, and in fact, in practice a euro has never been so expensive. Officially, in January 2015, there was a stabbing up to 327,6 points when the Swiss central bank unexpectedly released the exchange rate of the franc. At that time, however, the world's foreign exchange market was almost completely frozen, so it can only be considered as a technical exchange rate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So it didn't last a minute. What's the future gonna be? 320 is the new 310? No, 340. With regard to the weakening of the forint, Portfolio said weeks ago that 320 appears to be the new 310, i.e. the stable exchange rate of the euro for many years. The period since then has confirmed this view, and even fewer people think that the weakening of the forint would stop here. In recent days, there have been a series of analyses of higher prices of 330-340. I'm not reading the article anymore, Mr. Secretary. Several people have said in the last few hours that we might have to pack up, close these papers, for you, to go home, and come back with a new budget, because it may have to be done in days. I'd like to read you a short quote, I hope I can find it; yes, I will find it. In 2004, Viktor Orbán, your Prime Minister, said that:. Your weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I would very much like to go home from here tonight, give a message to Viktor Orbán that weak people may want, in his words, weak forints. It would be good if Prime Minister could now say something about what is expected in the next period. There's one thing we haven't talked about today. The exchange rate of the forint is also very important, but there was a survey that could affect our budget every year: the Hungarians in the region feel the most corrupt of their own country's circumstances. I'm not saying this. It's supported by a survey. Every year, Hungarians feel more and more corrupt in Hungary. According to Eurostat data, it has been achieved in 5 years that the residents of Romania, which has traditionally been considered one of the most corrupt countries in Europe, feel better about their own situation than the Hungarians, as they have never given such a low score on the public purity of their country. I think that this is a very important aspect of how citizens, citizens of our country, feel about the government when discussing a budget debate. Of course, I know that the answer will be that in 2018, a two-thirds majority was once again obtained in the Hungarian Parliament. There will also be a lot of discussion about how this happened, how that addiction relationship was developed. Yeah, people voted. Just how? Since 2006, when the municipal elections were won, Congressman, how did you develop that dependency relationship with the state, the government, the municipalities and the people, and how did you manage to obtain a two-thirds majority? I am glad that Congressman Csaba Nagy is still here, because he has spoken a lot, and I am having a little chat about the training and gym development program. He was very pleased to report from his own constituency, as I recall, he mentioned Baranya County. Mr. Congressman, the problem is that we haven't been able to finish the 25 since 2014 and the 24 they started. Stadiums were built for hundreds of billions of forints, but we failed those few pieces. And, you know, Congressman, if anyone's in favour of sports, kids' sports, I'm very supportive. However, this terrible situation has developed because of the introduction of daily physical education in an ascending system. We can also argue whether it's a good solution. I am in favour of children moving as much as possible, but it may not be necessary to do so only within the educational system. Families have a lot of responsibility here, and I also like to take responsibility. I always tell you that in our time when we were kids, we had three physical education classes, but somehow the world changed around us, because when we went home, we went out to play, we moved around a lot, we didn't sit in front of the Internet. In this, not only should the school solve these problems without, of course, the conditions being developed. I am pleased because I see that you are going to have a say in this, Congressman. In the meantime, another training and gym development program was announced before the elections. And I'd like to go back to my last two minutes, and these gymnasiums will recover sometime. But, Congressman, children can't use it. In my constituency, where I live, Kaban, Báránd, Rolen, Sárrétudvari has recovered, and I am sorry that the Secretary of State for Employment, Sándor Bodó, is not here. Children are not allowed to use 100% in any settlement, because KLIK cannot pay the rent to the municipality. Because the kids can go there for rent. I find it nonsensical in a settlement in Kaba or Role or Báránd that we have built 300 million forints in a chili-like, beautiful gymnasium, I would add that Kaban was also in great need, a 30-year dream came true, and only two years can use it, 5th and 6th, because KLIK cannot pay more to the municipality. I would add that it is also an outrage to me that the municipality will not give it to me, however, or that they will not find a solution to this. I think that everyday physical education was introduced because we want healthy children. We support this, too, so that there are as many healthy children as possible, and that the education itself and the family can contribute, but in the meantime, we will build institutions without the children being able to use it. In addition, a single school or gym can't solve the physical education problem of all the years, the class problem. Maybe we should think about it. As a practicing mother, let me say that it can be verified that two hours can be replaced in a week by the children's afternoon sports. A lot of parents do what they do to prove it, but their kids don't go anywhere. Because you see how much trouble it is that we don't have the right infrastructure. He wants the kid to play more sports, but he also wants his kid not to have to spend an extra hour in the afternoon getting ready for the next day. So I think it would be good to have a compromise agreement on this, to accept our proposals and to implement those gym development programmes at a slightly faster pace than the construction of empty stadiums. We spend a few billion forints on one of them, on our children and hundreds of billions of forints on empty stadiums. That's what I have, Congressman, a very big problem. I'd like to come back a little bit more. I'd like to say a few thoughts about the budgetary resources for family support. I have already said in my speech to the lead speaker that since 2008, there has not been an increase in family allowances, children and children, and we keep saying every year, Mr Secretary of State, that we would find this very important. And this budget is when the family allowance will now be 5 billion forints less. It is 5 billion forints less, because few children are born in Hungary. [[18.20]] You said that I think it happened this morning, because I've been here since morning - that we have succeeded because, in essence, if we put it this way, the average birth of a woman has increased, a woman gives birth more on average today in Hungary. Yet, if we look at the numbers, we see that a breakthrough has not been achieved, since every year fewer children are born. If we look at the first months, we're writing June, the first five months, we can say that there is almost a 2 percent drop in child birth compared to last year. Last year, 93,000 children were born, just over 93,000 children, and we still could not return to the pre-crisis period, when the crisis broke out, more than 96,000 children were born in Hungary, and before the crisis broke out, we also reached 99,000 births. One of the biggest problems, Mr. Secretary, is that the number of women of parental age is very low, as you know, and I know that the grandchildren of the Ratkó era, born from 72 to 77, have spent the 40 years, there was a very high birth rate. After 77, when we look at the data, the number of births decreased dramatically, resulting in a drastic decrease in the number of capable women of parental age. This is a terrible process, because for long, long years, if we look at the numbers, let's be honest, they won't be able to show success in this, because if we don't dramatically increase the birth of children, then we can't succeed in this. I also said in my previous speech that there are two very serious problems: one in six Hungarian children is born abroad, and one in ten Hungarian women are abroad. I think that if we are talking about the family support system, we should take very seriously what Viktor Orbán said after the elections, that he would like to conclude a comprehensive, long-term agreement with Hungarian women on how the family support system could be transformed by the Prime Minister. One of the most important things would be what does not appear in the budget, we do not see support for part-time work, support for teleworking. My fellow Member, Péter Ungár, said that a breakthrough could not be achieved in increasing the number of cradle seats. It would be very important to achieve what we have been saying for years, so that women can earn the same wage for the same work, that there cannot be professions where women are employed for less wages than men, and that there is a great need to reform the labour code. What we see now in the labour market is that, while Hungary has developed, if I remember the numbers correctly, there is a shortage of around 90,000 workers in the CSF, while we see that women, women raising children... here we are talking about the fact that if two children, three children are raised by a woman, it is virtually impossible to go back to the labour market after birth, because it is essentially a disadvantage when a Hungarian family raises a small child. We have not been able to achieve success in this either in recent years, no matter how much the government communicates. It is very important to come up with tools to support these women so that they can return as soon as possible, and one of the tools to do so is to increase crèches. The other, joining Peter Ungár, I told him this morning, it would be very important to remember the half a million children who are raised in a single - parent family. One of the biggest poverty risks these families are exposed to, and basically for years we have been submitting amendments to the budget or during the year, as if the government had not noticed this problem. Let me just bring up one more item, Mr Secretary: support for child feeding. Now, the holiday meal will be removed, led out of a separate line, as I see it, this HUF 6.6 billion will be removed and transferred to support the institutional children's meal. You rang this bell a few years ago that in 2018 the budget for the children's meal was almost HUF 80 billion. This also appears on the institutional food support line, which was HUF 72.6 billion in 2018. Only if you look at this table further, there is no increase, because the HUF 6.6 billion for holiday meals has been transferred there, and even if we look at the budget more closely, the holiday meal will be reduced by HUF 300 million compared to 2018. You know very well what it comes from. I'm constantly, constantly asking for these data on how the holiday meal is going. For you to find out that 230,000 children should attend a holiday meal every year, if I request the data, about 100,000 children are constantly unable to obtain this care. There is only one reason for this: the parent has to ask for it himself. The parent either does not know or is ashamed, there are many reasons why the parent does not ask for this form of care. We have always asked for this, and I am going to present the amendment proposal to remove this one half sentence from the law, that the parent should ask for it. If we know there are 230,000 children in need, I think we should give them to them. If this is planned in the budget, the Secretary of State will answer whether there is an increase or no increase in the food supply of children, with a much higher purchase price for raw materials than inflation, and there will be serious problems here that the HUF 570 standard of raw materials will not rise according to next year's budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-06-27-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai has applied. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am pleased that Congresswoman Bangóné Borbély Ildikó has read today's article on the Portfolio News Portal, because behind the change in the exchange rate of the forint, according to the portal, there is no special Hungarian fundamental, real economic reason. From this point of view, the comparison made earlier here in 2010, I think, does not hold up. The economic situation is completely different today. I do not want to mention, we all know that the Hungarian economy was twin-deficit, we were in an excessive deficit procedure, our public debt increased year after year before 2010, there was a high unemployment rate and the rest, and so on. It's the opposite. The congresswoman pointed out that the exchange rate change over the past period is the result of monetary policy steps arising from international processes, Fed, ECB, money market waves, we saw it in Italy a few weeks ago - to which next year's budget law is responding. That is why we are talking about safe growth, which is why we are talking about the cost of financing public debt going up. The Minister also said in his exposé that these risks have already been included in the draft budget law for next year. Another very important thing about the exchange rate is that the forint is floating freely, determined by absolute market processes. In recent times, I repeat, as the Member pointed out, these movements have been determined by international processes, but the fundamentals are stable. On this basis, we believe that, as the exchange rate of the forint has weakened over the last few weeks, these waves can settle, as I repeat, if we look at the situation in Hungary in a specific way, then nothing has come to light in recent weeks that should have led to the weakening of the forint. With this, I think that I have also given an answer to Mr Dániel Z. Yes, I think a responsible budget can also be described as a reserve for unforeseen processes. We have often said that this is why there is a 50 percent increase in the general reserve, so-called extraordinary government measures in the draft of next year, and therefore an increase in the amount of reserve that could be used to keep the deficit at HUF 90 billion. I don't see these amounts as government allowance. According to the provisions of the Public Finance Act or the Finance Act, in the latter respect, if the Honourable Parliament accepts this, the use of the resources can only take place in a scheduled manner and only by a public government decision. In addition, 40 percent of the appropriations for extraordinary government measures can only be used in the first half or only 40 percent in the first half. [[18.30]] Obviously, the deficit target should be maintained with these spare uses, so that the reserve use can only be used within the limits set by the Parliament. I would also like to respond to the statement raised by some opposition representatives. I think that there is a factual error in the draft budget for next year's financing of schools with church reservations, and the support of children studying there, to the detriment of the state-owned institutional system and the children studying there, to the detriment of it. It is a question of the fact that the draft budget law reflects the change that is taking place with regard to the maintainers. A number of schools are taken over by the churches from the state's reservations, so this maintenance change, as appropriate, is followed by a change in the financing of the draft budget law. Any withdrawal or reduction of funds for students per capita or per institution who study in public institutions or public institutions cannot be read out of next year's draft budget law because there is no such thing. I would like to make a point on the suggestion of Mr Ungár Péter: in relation to the care fee, I reacted to whether or not there had been any changes, and factually I said that there had been more changes in the care fee. Of course, it can be said that in all areas, both here and in many areas, there should still be a surplus, and I do not argue that we could find a lot of areas where we can say that additional resources would be needed to carry out this task. We can also say that it would be good if we could reduce taxes in more areas. The question is, how can we do this responsibly? In this respect, it is not a Hungarian speciality, but it is everywhere in the world that government parties and opposition parties have different ideas. That's what the budget is about and that's what democracy is all about. My statement is that there are changes in the draft budget law next year, whether from the tax side, namely tax cuts, either predominantly or on the expenditure side, namely additional expenditure, which is covered by the economic growth we calculate, and if the money market or real economic processes were to lead to a negative path, then there are reserves that we can keep the relatively low deficit target of 1.8 per cent. As regards environmental costs, on page 284 we provide a detailed description of how environmental expenditure changes from 2018 to 19. Here too, a substantial increase can be reported, i.e. an increase in environmental spending. With regard to the social sector and the crèche, I have to state in fact that both the graduates and the secondary graduates of crèches have received a wage increase. From 2016 higher-level daycare workers became subject to the pedagogical career, so the teacher's wage increase was made there, by 50 percent in scale and by 11 percent in 2017 for secondary-schooled workers. Congressman László Varju's comments were much spoken about this morning, so allow me one thing, Congressman. He said that the budget of the privileged was the draft of next year, and only the privileged ones, perhaps using this figure of speech. Allow me to say that I am confident that there are quite a few, because Minister in his morning exhibition said that there are 350,000 families with two children affected by the expansion of the family discount. Just as we hope that the tax changes will benefit from a wide range of social groups. There was also a lot of talk about pensions, and left-wing representatives here also mentioned the break-off of pensioners compared to wages. I would relativity this, so pensions have maintained their real value, since 2010 there has been a rise in real value of more than 10 per cent, and this does not include the amount of the pension premium and does not include payments in the form of the Elizabeth voucher that we have seen either this year or last year. Next year's draft also expects pensions to preserve their real value, if inflation is higher than 2.7 percent, then, of course, the pension supplement will be paid by the government, and we calculate that it will also be possible to pay a pension premium, as we calculate that 3.5 percent of next year's economic growth will be higher. On the points raised by Congressman Lajos Rig, health: I must also say that, in addition to the fact that we all consider additional resources to be conceivable in a number of areas, let us look at what has happened. Mr. Congressman said that he worked in health care for twenty years, and Mr. President, he knows that in 2012, a wage increase in the health sector affected some 95 thousand people and continued in 2013. This layer has already achieved a noticeable wage increase, of course additional information on specific rates can be provided. A so-called mobile wage arrangement took place in the subsequent period, and in 2016, an average wage increase of 26,5 per cent was achieved for health nurses, followed by 12 per cent and 8 per cent in the following year and 8 per cent in the same year next year. Therefore, significant increases have been made in the wage area. He mentioned the general practitioners and a 130 thousand forints annual supplement. We have to say again that it is not a single 130 thousand forints... [[Lajos Rig: Monthly!]] Sorry, a HUF 130,000 supplement per month was added, but four times in four years there was such a step. So this has been a cumulative increase in general medical care of HUF 520,000 in recent years. In dentists last year, if my memories are correct, a $7 billion extra resource has been provided. So I think that there have been substantial wage increases in health care. I repeat, of course, that we can talk about the extent to which wages are still needed in some countries of Western Europe, but I also think that good governance is part of the fact that these wage increases are being made in the light of growth, real economic processes and public finances. And I repeat: in 2012, the government decided on the first wage increase of healthcare workers in the excessive deficit process, when the European Union as a whole was otherwise characterised by recession and there was an economic downturn. As far as family support is concerned, and I would like to go back to the suggestions made by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, she is right that the birth rate is determined by two things, making it very simple: the fertility rate and the number of women of childbearing age. What can we do? What we can do is to take as many measures as possible to ensure that women of childbearing age, if they want to have children, and families want to have children, are helped by improving their financial conditions. That's what we can do. Congresswoman is right, of course we all know that the Ratko grandchildren are in their 40s or they are out of their 40s. What we can't do is, unfortunately, we can't increase the number of women born in 1980. You are right on this point, but please do not ask the current government why so many children were born in the 1980s. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I only said facts!]] I think that it is possible to take account of the government and to make sure that everyone on the government identifies a problem and tries to react or not. My statement is that the government has recorded that it is also a fundamental economic issue, if you like, also a budgetary issue, how many people are born, and we have confirmed that unfortunately, before 2010, as the congresswoman knows, the fertility rate has decreased steadily. From 2011, I repeat: during the period of the excessive deficit procedure, the Honourable Parliament decided to introduce a generous tax relief system, which now leaves more than HUF 360 billion to the families, and which, on the basis of statistics, contributed to the improvement of the fertility rate. [[18.40]] There is no question that this is not enough for reproduction alone. However, my statement is that next year's draft budget law will continue on this path, and that is why it will nominally define both the amount of tax reductions and the amount of direct subsidies. And it is a philosophical question between us which are the right tools to encourage childbearing. The government decides that it is appropriate to link childbearing, employment and thus economic growth. That is why it decided to increase the family allowance instead of increasing the tax benefits linked to employment, which in the case of three children, I note are fully available for a family with a minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage. For this reason, for example, in order to combine demographic targets and job creation, economic growth, he decided to support home creation, the amount of which is also increasing in the next year's draft. Finally, I would like to note that next year's draft budget law will take account of the fact that this government and Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP, supported by the government, the crèche building programme under the laws adopted by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, will continue to run, since this parliamentary majority has decided that it is mandatory to build a nursery under certain conditions. For this, the budget provides funds from EU and domestic items, as well as the source of the administration of crèches, and this was incorporated into next year's draft budget law, as well as the amount of support for children's meals of around HUF 80 billion. Congresswoman is right that this amount of HUF 80 billion is virtually unchanged in the 2019 plan compared to the 2018 plan. Congresswoman knows the answer to why. Because, unfortunately, we cannot increase the number of children in public education retroactively, which unfortunately decreases on the basis of the processes already mentioned, and this is also the reason why the nominal amount of the family allowance is falling. I stress that all family support is growing. That is why I think that, on the basis of demographic considerations, even the draft budget for next year could be supported by opposition representatives. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We now have a two-minute speech. Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz representative, came forward in two minutes. Here.
u2018-06-27-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to answer your question to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You know, my dear Congresswoman, that is the difference between the current government and the left-wing governments that started before 2010, and here from my own constituency, let me say that a school hall was built in Szigetvár before 2010 in a PPP construction. In 2014, after the city was unable to pay the service fee, the Hungarian government took over. The difference between you and us is that you keep me accountable, and we keep acting. In 2014, the government made its first decision on the school development programme, and soon it reviewed this professionally, because the first decision, if I remember correctly, was a long time ago, but I remember this well - it was about easy-structured dome structures to cover the schools. It has been reviewed, thought out, and this will mean regular schooling, not with EU money, not with different schools and institutions combined to spend EU money on it, but with national funds. They are constantly, month after month, year after year. I can tell you, in the name of the Shrinks or in the name of the Buttersloans, or even in the name of the Sasdi, that we will wait our turn. This year, or in this budget law, there is a HUF 3 billion domestic resource for school building, and there is HUF 3 billion for construction projects that will report gymnasiums and gymnasiums to individual institutions. These amounts exceed exactly 3 billion or 3 billion of your resources during your governance, if we compare budgetary resources. In this respect, you have not given a penny to the institutions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-96	Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély can say two minutes for one minute and nine seconds.
u2018-06-27-97	Thank you, Mr. President. School building and gym building became necessary because everyday physical education was introduced in an uphill system. The review took place after 2014 not only because light-structure schools were designed, but also because the first round of applications had municipalities of 1 and there were municipalities of 2. The municipalities of 1 received 50 percent support and the municipalities of 2 received 100 percent support. I spoke more than ten times in Parliament, and it was János Lázár who first heard me complain that while, say, Sárrétudvarin, the Fidesz Member of Parliament, they were able to build a gym with 100% support, with 50 percent support. The review was that, thanks to God, this was one of my greatest successes in the last four years with 100 percent support for gym development in all settlements. Once again, I needed this, and my problem with you is that while we spend hundreds of billions of forints on stadiums, only 3 billion forints on gymnasiums. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-27-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are now returning to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced in advance. Among these, we can listen first to Mr István Happy, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to talk briefly about the facts and figures on the draft budget before us. According to the bill submitted, next year's revenue will be HUF 19 580 billion, while on the expenditure side it is expected to reach HUF 20 578 billion. The deficit will be HUF 998 billion in absolute terms, meeting the criteria required by the European Union. As the President of the SAO pointed out, the audited revenue appropriations and expenditure appropriations are well-founded. Another important objective of the post-2010 period was to reduce public debt. We are also doing well in this area, as it will continue to decline next year as compared to GDP, which is expected to reduce public debt below 70 percent by the end of next year. Of course, every budget has a risk, as unexpected events can happen at any time. We note that Hungary's economic prospects are good, the foundations for growth are stable, but there are signs of crisis in the world. Such risks are, for example, the start of the world's interest rate increase period or the high indebtedness of several euro area Member States, as many do not respect the EU's criteria in this respect. Another potential external threat is the trade war with the United States, which primarily affects Germany directly, but could indirectly reach our country. The various reserves are used to prevent all of this, which the government has even raised to prevent the risks mentioned above. Thus, the reserve for extraordinary government measures was increased by 50 percent in the central budget, i.e. with an appropriation of HUF 165 billion. The Hungarian National Defence Fund's budget of HUF 60 billion is the same as last year. I believe that these reserves together guarantee the safe economic growth of the country. Speaking of security, it is also important to point out that next year there will be 85 billion forints more money for force and police. This also indicates that the government is taking decisive action for the security of Hungarians, for border protection and for public security. Ladies and gentlemen, It is pleased that among all financial experts, whether foreign or domestic, there is agreement that we can expect significant economic growth next year. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, retail consumption is increasing, thanks to wage increases of around 10 per cent and sector wage developments launched. According to the surveys, corporate expectations also reflect years of unexplored optimism about planned domestic sales. [[18.50]] Hungary's companies are also calculating an improvement in the main export markets. A long time ago, investments were made only from EU funds. It is now heated by increasing lending and increasing investment. On the production side, almost all sectors are expected to recover next year. According to experts, livestock production, electric machinery and the automotive industry have the best prospects. I believe that if the negative scenarios mentioned above are not implemented, this very favourable macroeconomic environment may remain for the year 2019. The draft budget before us will continue to support Hungarian families and businesses. Once again, some tax reductions are expected, this time the rate of the social contribution tax is expected to decrease to 17.5 percent, thus helping businesses to make more resources available for wage development. I have to say here that it is good news for families and people living on wages and salaries that the level of personal income tax does not change and remains one-key, as the opposition said yesterday under tax laws, that they want to introduce a multi-key tax. In fact, the extent of this has been mentioned here in Parliament, as one opposition Member said that the average wage would already be taxed at 24 per cent, which means that some of the wage increases given to teachers and doctors would be taken away immediately. I'm glad the voters didn't vote for them. Just as I am glad that, after not voting for them, the family tax relief will remain, as this was promised to be cut and taken away in the elections. That is probably why the election was lost, and that is why not only there are few in the benches now, but also few in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, The economic measures of the past years and the 2019 budget also foresee that Hungary has become one of the most vibrant and safest countries in the European Union with sustained work, disciplined and forward-looking national policies. These positive effects are also reflected in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. The region of Földtúr, Törökszentmiklós and Kunszentmárton is no longer characterised by unemployment, but by the increasingly paid jobs and continuous development. The stability of the national economy is indicated by the fact that the largest food plant in Eastern Europe could be built in Tussapüspöki, providing a safe livelihood for more than 500 people. The main transit route for the Tiszazug and Békés counties, the motorway M44 and the motorway M4 for the region of Törökszentmiklós are being built. The HUF 4000 billion development resource of the 2019 budget also includes the completion sources of the stopped section of the M4 road between Abony-Törökszentmiklós. In addition to the construction of the motorway network, we have spent significant amounts in recent years on the renewal of the road network, but we need to increase the economic power of the region by further infrastructure improvements. When negotiating the 2019 budget, I asked for the support of the faction to help develop the road network leading to small settlements as far as we can. In my constituency, for example, there is a complete renovation of the only access road to the Masters' Station, the Martfű-Kengel-Tiszatanyő út, the Csépa-Csongrád connecting road and the Öcsöd-Martfű connecting road between the Mezőhes and the Nagykunság main channel. The calculated cost of the renovation is 2.5 billion HUF. If my proposal is supported, we will promote the safe transport of thousands of people and increase economic opportunities for those living here. In addition, the Public Works Programme is also an important economic factor along the Körös-Tisza, while creating jobs, it creates safety for families and value in settlements. The Hungarian people have worked for these successes. The 2019 budget provides the future of this building, economically strong Hungary, where life is predictable and can be planned, raising a good child and living safely. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, as has always been the case in the last eight years, that the government has presented a responsible, sound budget, which includes further tax cuts, guarantees secure growth and supports families. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-100	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech would be possible, but no one needs this option now. Thus, in the list of speakers announced, Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, will be followed. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot of things today in this prolonged debate about the 2019 budget here in the general debate. I'd like to speak in the voice of thanks. I would like to thank the Government of Hungary for continuing the traditions of previous years in the year of parliamentary elections on 8 April, and also after the elections, we have the opportunity and opportunity to adopt this draft budget law in a general debate in early summer, June, and in July, we will certainly have the opportunity and opportunity to help the representatives of the Hungarian economic sector, businesses, families, households, municipalities and the public sector, by building on planning and predictability. There is time to prepare, there is time to adapt, there is time to learn about the opportunities that this budget contains. If there are two words to describe this budget, then what I think of is progress and security. That's what the government used to say when it said it was a budget for safe growth. We've heard this from other people today. I think it is clear that when planning it, there were basically four main aspects that led the Ministry of Finance. One is the preservation of the security of Hungary, the other is the maintenance of economic growth, the third is the further broadening of family support, and the fourth is the very important thing: full employment. I would like to share with you a few thoughts on maintaining and preserving the country's security. Obviously, the security of a country requires the preservation of national sovereignty, we need to be able to create safe living conditions for the Hungarian people, but we are still in a budgetary debate, so I would like to share a few thoughts on financial and economic budgetary stability or discipline with you in particular. It is clear that, since the change in government in 2010, any macroeconomic indicator is being examined, we see significant progress, significant progress, positive change for each indicator. Here we could mention the development of government debt, employment, general government deficits, inflation, economic growth, export growth, as we are an export-oriented country, or even retail turnover, which we heard in Minister's exposé, that the policy of keeping as much money as possible with Hungarian families, Hungarian people, Hungarian households can always spend a little more, and retail sales have been growing for the fifth year now, reduce taxes and increase wages. I think it's definitely good news. We can say that real wages have been growing in Hungary for 63 months. I think it is particularly important to look at these trends in such a debate, because we can build on history, build on history, and plan our future. And if we are at the background, let us not forget that some of us here have already told the lead speaker group that, by 2010, this country was in a near state-to-state situation thanks to the failed economic policy of socialist-liberal governments. The only way to prevent this was by taking a huge loan with the panic-like speed of 14,3 billion euros in the EU and IMF, with which the government was crying out for help at the time. Since then, thanks to the work, performance and diligence of the Hungarian people, Hungary has repaid it to the last euro cent before the deadline, thus saving the budget from further very, very serious interest expenditures, and the favourable process has started, which has already resulted in an economic turnaround in 2013. I was just talking about the general government deficit before 2010. In no year has socialist-liberal governments managed to keep the government deficit below the Maastricht 3 percent criterion. And we may even remember that in 2006, the deficit reached almost 10 percent, if I remember correctly. Of course, governments at the time tried to cosmeticsate these data, or we could say that they tried to falsify it, but it was expected that financial and economic experts there would notice this in Brussels as well. The result of this was the excessive deficit procedure, which was mentioned earlier, also resulting in a serious HUF 100 billion minus the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian people. It's been erased since then. [[19.00]] If you look at employment, you've talked about it a lot. I would just like to give strength or confirmation to the joyful news that employment has not been this high in Hungary for almost 28 years, and the end of the process can be nothing more than what I mentioned earlier in the main objectives of achieving full employment in Hungary. We are on the right track, since unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to 3.7 to 3.8 percent in Hungary, the aim is to limit it to around 3 percent. This trend seems to be on a pro rata basis, since in ten years we are now at 755 thousand new jobs in one million new jobs after eight years. We talk about sovereign debt at a time like this, and I think that this should be very talkative among macro indicators. It is worth looking at in proportion to GDP, as economic growth can give us the percentage that shows that in 2002 it stood at 52 per cent, then after eight years of socialist leadership it rose to 83 per cent. Once again there is a downward trend, at the moment this value is around 71-72 percent, and in 2019 the government intends to reduce it to below 70 per cent, according to the budget of 19; in fact, by 2022 it would be good to achieve the important goal of stopping it around 60 per cent or below 60 per cent. It's just a sentence about inflation. I think we also remember that before 2010, there was an 8 percent decline in money in Hungary. Now this has been about 3 percent in recent years, and next year's budget plans for this value to 2.7 percent. Economic growth, I think, is a very important measure of economic development. Here, we can also remember the 7 percent reduction in GDP from the Bajna government time. In recent years it has been able to achieve around 4 percent continuously, with a 4.1 percent increase in the Cabinet next year. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, in view of the trends in the previous years, it can be said that the government and Hungary can not only anticipate and plan favourable public finances and economic processes for 2019, but also for the coming years. In the draft budget law, it is clear from the detailed general government balance data for the next four years that the central budget is planned to increase by 2020 and the tax reduction fund will rise to HUF 570 billion by 2021. From the figures that can be read from the general government balance sheet, only two would be highlighted on the revenue side, which envisages the development of economic processes between 2018 and 2022. One of them is VAT revenue. The government plans to increase from HUF 3800 billion in 2018 to HUF 5200 billion in 2020 and to HUF 5200 billion in 2022. This corresponds to about 30-36 percent increase and expansion over four years. And the other is in sja revenue. It is planned from the current HUF 2100 billion revenue to 3000 billion. By 2020, the cash flow balance of the central budget can now turn to an extra HUF 121 billion, and now there is a deficit of about one thousand billion in the current budget planned for next year, but it is important to say that I do not know how many countries in Europe can produce this, and fortunately Hungary is among them, I believe that Luxembourg and Germany have a zero-salve budget at operational level, which Hungary has now, if I remember correctly, been able to produce last year and before last year. That's still a given. The aim is to ensure that, in terms of the overall budget, nullity is achieved sooner or later. On the expenditure side, the National Defence Fund is remarkable in the balance sheet, which can primarily serve as protection measures, tax reductions, improvements and deficit reduction. In this respect, the current amount of HUF 60 billion is planned to double by 2020 to HUF 110 billion and could rise to HUF 500 billion by 2022, which, I think, is also a positive change. I have also recorded to myself the state's wealth, the cost of state wealth, which was striking from the balance sheet, as we can talk about a growing trend here too. This is the amount of infrastructure, which generally provides financing for infrastructure investments and improvements from government sources. From the current HUF 320-330 billion to approximately HUF 600 billion by 2020, to HUF 900 billion by 2021 and HUF 1000 billion by 2022, which can in any case be a serious security-enhancing factor. Another good news is that reserves are also increasing in the next year's budget, which also aims to create predictability and stability. There is also a 1.5-fold increase in the overall reserve and the security reserve, which clearly could further increase security. To conclude: I think we can say that, overall, we can say that the 2019 budget is capable of creating financial and budgetary stability, security, predictability and further economic growth for Hungary. For the 2019 budget, a stable economy can be a strong basis and, as I have just said, the budget for public operations is expected to be zero, which is in any case positive. And let's also talk about developments, because next year's budget is planned to invest HUF 4000 billion in government support, while there are additional resources available for almost all sectors, I would not list them, as many have already done so here today. I think that, with these knowledge and these facts, we can say yes to the 2019 budget with a calm heart, and I urge and ask my fellow Members to do so after a constructive debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so it is up to Mrs Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, in the list of speakers announced. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the focus of the 2019 draft budget on safe growth, it is not only for the main objectives of the budget, it is not only for the preservation of security, not only for the growth of the economy, not only for the retention and enlargement of the family support system, not only for achieving full employment, but also for the balanced and dynamic development and development of the various regions of the country. It is equally important for us to develop small settlements, big cities and the capital, and it is equally important to eliminate inequalities within Budapest. We have put an end to the socialist and former free democrat government and city leaders approach that the capital only represented the inner city and some Buda districts. Dear fellow Members, Looking at the past eight years, we can clearly say that Budapest has made a lot of progress. Thanks to its renewed public squares, high-priority tourist attractions and conscious and efficient downtown rehabilitation, our capital is mentioned and rightly mentioned among the most beautiful cities in the world. In addition to the successes, however, there is still room for improvement, there is still plenty to be done in Budapest, especially in the outer districts of Pest. The great problem of these settlements, including my constituency, Rákosmente, is that they still have streets and sidewalks that are not blown off, and the drainage is only partially solved. This deficiency has a major impact on the living standards of people living in the district and affects their daily lives. We government representatives and mayors in Budapest are doing everything we can to ensure that this long-standing problem can finally be resolved at an orderly pace. This task requires a great deal of resources, as there is currently more than 300 kilometers of solid road surfaces in the capital, most of which concern my constituency, Rákosmente, with its 80 kilometers. [[19.10]] As a result of our previous amendments and initiatives, the government gave a resolution in March 2018 to support the asphaltation of ground roads, and by the end of 2022 all road surfaces will also have solid road surfaces in Budapest. The implementation of this programme will significantly improve the quality of life of people living in districts and the transport of affected parts. There is no need to run in the mud in pouring rain, and in dry weather to breathe the dust of the road, nor will the bumpy road conditions cause the nerves of the motorists. It is important to note that not only will asphalting be carried out in the work expected, but the construction of drainage will also be an obligatory task. We will thus achieve two very expensive improvements at the same time. Of course, construction can only take place on the roads where the road plans began and ended. Local governments are looking forward to preparing the plans for streets over 250 km long without a final permit. It takes considerable time not only for the implementation but also for the planning, which is why the end of 2022 was set as the deadline for the implementation of the programme. As can be seen from the 2019 budget, the government has kept its promise again and allocates HUF 10 billion to the first stage of the construction of asphalting and drainage works. It will be possible for the metropolitan districts to apply for the aid. Thanks to the government's support, a problem that has existed for 70 years can be solved in Rákosmente and in the other outer districts over the next four years. As Budapest's representative, I think it is important that the Government of Hungary hears the voices of the capitals, and treats Budapest's affairs as a priority, in addition to the modern cities, as well as the modern villages. Budapest's ten-year development plan will be completed in 2019. Community planning and social dialogue on developments for the period 2020 to 2030 will be launched in the autumn of this year, on an unprecedented scale. The development plan should concern, among other things, the transport in Budapest, the more efficient connection of the suburban railway to the capital's transport and the possibility of additional P+R parking. In addition to the development plan, I stress that the government has already taken special attention to the capital in an institutionalised way by setting up a separate State Secretary for the conduct of Budapest's affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that the present budget is starting to remedy a serious problem that has existed for 70 years across the capital, one of the biggest beneficiaries of which is the cancer and the people living in the outer neighbourhoods of Pest. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask that the budget be supported by considering these aspects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László György Lukács asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2018-06-27-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Most importantly, Mr. Secretary of State. Taking advantage of the opportunity that you are here, and perhaps you can answer it, and other State Secretarys are here, I would like to ask you quick questions that you might be able to help, and then we won't communicate side by side. In the constituencies from which I come and where I live, and what I represent in my soul, though the voters did not choose me there and represent me, and I look forward to hearing you say so, but I still bear the fate of the neighborhood on my conscience - I would like to know how the case of the Kunmadara Correctional Institute stands, because I cannot find it anywhere in the chapters. And it'd be nice to get a tip from BM on what's going to happen to this 1500-year-old institution, otherwise one of the biggest penitentiaries in the country. Well, what about the shaman drum? That's what it's called practically, it's a shaman drum, but it's the pavilion of the 2015 Milan World Exhibition. Forints 1.1 billion were intended for this in 2018 and 2019, perhaps I read in the second detailed volume of the budget that this was not planned. So 1100 million forints does not go there either because there will be nothing from the shaman drum, or for the remaining six months everything will be done there, and this source is no longer needed. That would be very good to know. Actually, it's a cross-examination. In addition to what my happy fellow Member said about the construction of the M4: did I understand that it was 4 billion forints plus? [[Happy István: 4000 billion.]] Good. I would like to ask you what schedule and how this will take place, because there is a lot of uncertainty and which section of this will take place. It is very simple: will it reach the heart of the Great Community, that is, Karcag, or can this continue to mean only the stretches of the Gun? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-106	Thank you very much. Happy Congressman Stephen, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2018-06-27-107	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, During yesterday's debate on tax laws, Dániel Z. Karpát began by saying that there was very little time during which the debate could take place. Well, now we see, yesterday, if I don't get involved in Jobbik and MSZP as the last speaker, they'll have their time. They've got 32 minutes left in 105, and apparently they don't have much of a comment, so they're trying questions. So it seems that their time is not short, but so few that they can't talk about 105 minutes. And the budget is so good, they can't criticize it. As for road four: calm down, Congressman, you will reach Karcag, and Karcago will avoid road 4 because you are avoiding it now, so you will not pass the city and you will reach it, I can tell you instead of Mr. Secretary. There is HUF 4000 billion in the budget for development, including these costs, such as the completion of the stopped road by Abony-Törökszentmiklós. But what is more important than these things is that I said these things only because the record states that you are demanding time - that my district has just come up here to build a school and gym, because in the coming years we have spent billions of forints and spend on renovating and building schools, kindergartens and nurserys. For example, in Törökszentmiklós the school has already been completed, and I hope that the children will be able to use it from September after the technical problems have been resolved. We're building a new gym on your brother. We're building a new gym in cherry grapes. So you can see that we are helping education, it is very important, and I hope that we can find new and new gymnasiums and schools in other settlements in the coming years, of course, because three walks belong to me, and indeed the Tiszazugians deserve a school, and of course those living in the district of Földtúr deserve a school. But we know we can't do everything at once, we'll wait our turn, and we'll trust that the government will build them all. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-108	Thank you very much. Speaking as a normal speaker, Mr Rig Lajos, Jobbik, is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his reply. But we may have the same thinking, but we'll approach it in a different way, and then I'll get to the point. However, Mr Happy Congressman, I ask you not to worry about our time frame, if possible, we will take advantage of it. And if you were thinking about pressing the button now, you could have gone up to the gallery and looked at the list of the next speakers. So I think that an opposition representative, or even a Member of Parliament, not only reads the thoughts he had given to him or expressed by others, but if it is necessary to respond to any question, I remember that last year he handed over an ambulance, which was just a moving medical car, but he didn't even know what he had handed over - this can also be reflected. But let's get back to it, and then you won't be worrying about whether or not Jobbik has a timeframe left, so I think we're gonna talk about it. And that's why we have this debate day, and the next days will be about that. Health wage increases, Mr. Secretary of State mentioned that since 2012, he has been at a strong pace and scale with healthcare workers, including the workers and doctors and residents. If this statement is true, then, if one question can be rejected, it has now been six years since 2012, and the rate of emigration among health workers has not really decreased. [[19.20]] The number of people leaving the medical field has increased in recent years, so if we look at a causal relationship between the two, I have to say that the rate of wage increases has not stopped the migration. The increase in wages was necessary, and we agree on this because the previous Socialist Government did not take the steps that should have been taken. So now it's 2018, and the rate of emigration hasn't decreased. If we are looking for the reasons why the workers are leaving, you are right that it is very difficult for us to compete with the wage level of the Western European countries, but if we are talking about the awareness and responsibility of the budget, there are items there that would not be a problem for the Hungarian people living in Hungary. For example, I think, and this is very important, that the budget of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, run by Minister Rogán, can be transferred, say, to the health budget, and then only one idea, or it could be translated into the items that individual representatives would have intended for their own constituency or for the sector at national level. We are now discussing the fifth such budget, when it has such a large amount of money... and the communication part, if I remember correctly, is only 30 billion of it, so 30 billion of it is intended to mislead people, for example, if it is intended for health care, the social sphere, we have already improved Hungary's situation. And we're not talking about a ministry, I think everyone in this room would be crying if this ministry were to end. But the ministry that we need, the Ministry of Health, unfortunately, doesn't exist. Then it's the GP's extra funding. They did get it. I didn't say they didn't get it. 130 thousand forints. But this isn't a wage, the doctor, the general practitioner doesn't get a wage, but after his practice, he gets a practice funding. On top of that, he received the 130 thousand forints, and if he nodds, Mr. Secretary of State, he has a practice of 1,200 people, then who can very easily calculate how much funding he receives after that. He has to pay his employee from that funding, and in better cases he has two assistants - the rent, if the property is not owned, and the municipality cannot contribute to the extent to which it can help his doctor, even it must be financed from it. Plus, he's got a business, a compulsive business, that he's forced into, because even after his business, he's got to pay a business tax. Although the municipality can also let go of which municipality can do this. I think that even if the municipality cannot contribute so much as to let go of these tax units, but a lot of municipalities are using the possibility of solving the renovations and even the acquisition of assets in their property, which is already covered by this practice financing because I say once again, this is not a wage, it should be bought by a practice financing. And what we know very well about today's health care is that the purchase of such a medical device, an instrument, is not cheap, it is not easy. And speaking of purchases of medical instruments, there was an asset acquisition here in 2013, with which, I think, and to put it mildly: the owner did not treat me as unfaithful, but as a sloppy farmer. That is, the National Rescue Service had a public procurement when the so-called ITFs, these intelligent on-board terminals, were purchased from billions of EU sources - and they were then steamed for several years in a storage facility or held down or feared of installing the equipment. Then came a new Director General, who noticed that there were these great tools, just no one was using them. But in the meantime, three years later, they were set up for rescue equipment, they started the tools, they taught the workers how to handle these devices with EU money, and then the cold shower came: these devices were not working properly, they hindered the rescue. So I think, and my point is, if they're holding back the rescue, they're putting people's lives at risk. Ambulance procurement. During the Socialist Government, he was also right not to have so much health development, they didn't replace the abandoned ambulances, and you had the opportunity to replace them. There have been type B and C ambulance purchases in the past year, and in 2017 we noticed that an ambulance cost 5 million forints in a year compared to 2016 without the equipment in it, this is just the vehicle itself. How can an ambulance of the same type, of the same brand, be expensive in a year? I think it's also a multibillion-dollar item to think about. Here the sources confirmed that it was a public procurement in the Ministry of Interior, and it is quite worrying that a private individual buys the same category of car of the same brand within a year, there is no difference of HUF 5 million in price between the two. There's no such thing in the backup trucks. I see it again, and in order to make Mr Happy happy, to take advantage of the time frame, I would like to return to the questions of my constituency. I told you, and I closed my previous speech by submitting 70 budget amendments that contribute to the everyday life of those 60 settlements and make their daily lives easier, and I listed a few, but without the need for completeness. I was pleased to hear Mrs Dunai's speech that she would also like to facilitate the everyday life of people living in her constituency by asphalting, drainage and sewerage. Imagine, it's not from the devil: I made the same proposals. I would like to list a few, since these are the renovations and investments from which the small municipalities have, for some reason, fallen out. They didn't have access to rural development funds, they had a tax force that they couldn't use, they didn't win a TOP source, because they didn't do a feudal oath, they did the 100% TOP resource if they won it after two years, they realized from public procurement that they couldn't do it on their own. Then I'd like to say a few, we've calculated a sum total of 18 billion. But if you support only about 20 percent of this, then I think that the people who live there can be grateful that if they have not been able to implement those improvements in the last 20 years, this could now be achieved in 2019. And I would add that during the elections, the pro-government representative raised the same problems in the problem map, which I have already indicated in writing to the government. For example, there are such things that we can renew our travels, as in Budapest. Ayka-Tapolca. This is a very interesting section of the road. The people there have already told us several times, because the hospital in Tapolca has ceased, so most of the sick deliveries would go to the hospital, and we're talking about a distance of 35 kilometers. We are talking about an extremely poor road section, I have checked with the road operator several times, there is no resources at the moment, it can only be implemented from government sources, the budget is prepared, they have a price offer, there is no money. That's what we're asking you to do. Restoration of inland waterways. You don't have to say, we go to any settlements or cities, but we find bad, emorated roads everywhere, where it's not only dangerous to drive, ride a bike, or even walk. Cycling routes to boost tourism and tourism, I think, are essential. Especially for Balaton tourism, and it's been a fantasy for years, and I think that we can now achieve this between Tapolca and Szigliget from a $500 million TOP source. But since it's attached to a ridge, we could use the bike route between Sümeg's Tapolca. Remodeling schools. There have been a lot of improvements in recent years that neither the district nor the municipality has been able to implement. [[19.30]] It's a fallout. For example, Tapolca is the southern part of the city, which is the deepest part of the city. Over the past few years, we have seen the problems caused by the intense change in time, the huge rainfall, flooding their cellars. The old network is outdated, there is no network at all, because it is so broken, but they have not been able to refurbished from the TOP applications that have been crossed or are not even suspended. Waste management. An interesting situation emerged in the constituency at the municipality of Sümeg. In the period 2010-14, the municipality took over the burden of the population and took over the waste transfer fee. Then, in 2016, the municipality said that it had a heavy burden on it, which is understandable, because we are talking about a huge amount of money, so it ended this. This was done on 31 December 2016, but no invoicing on the part of the company took place, and so nearly 100 million, again, 100 million would be burdened on the residents of Sümeg between 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018. The residents of Sümeg want to pay, but for the service they use, not for a mistake made by a public company. Once there was a consolidation, you admitted to the state that you made a mistake, you paid for it, but I think that going backwards now gives the residents of Sümeg a sum of this amount to pay backwards until January 1, 2017 so that they did not make a mistake, but the company, I think, is irresponsible. I'm asking for your help so that the municipality can have the resources to pay for it. The residents of Sümeg want to pay for the service from 1 January 2018. I will give you one more important, very important point on the TOP applications, and I would like to conclude by saying why we would take this amount from the Rogán Ministry. The poster campaign went on, the misdirection went on. Government representatives stood in front of the barracks, specifically in front of the barracks in Tapolca, and they said that if the current government does not win, then we will install migrants there. I have to tell you that between 2010 and 14 it was a Fidesz municipality when these barracks began to be sold to businesses and tried to build an industrial plant. After 2014, the municipality had a similar view, with a total of one-and-a-half billion TOP funds allocated to the development of the infrastructure of residential real estate, which was canceled at the same time. When a pro-government representative stands out to put migrants in an industrial park, that's, I think, an overt lie, and we don't fund lies. In this regard, everyone who has Christian values may agree. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-27-110	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, will follow. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[Happy István to the President as he points to Mónika Dunai: it is written in advance! Mónika Dunai: Twice!]] I'm sorry.
u2018-06-27-112	No. [[Happy Stephen: Twice!]] No. I see! [[Towards Anita Kőrösi Potocsány:]] Wait a minute. We're about to reset your watch. [[Anita Kőrösi: Okay, thank you very much.]] So you can start your speech from scratch. I understand what the Congresswoman and Congressman are saying, but the monitor doesn't indicate that to me. [[Mónika Dunai reporting.]] So we're gonna check it out at the administration. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-113	[[Congressman's mic isn't on.]] Mr President, What I would like to ask, on a point of order, is that, since I have been written twice as a written speaker in advance, you should take a look at this. I'm gonna have to ask you with respect to take a look at this. But by the way, if it's not registered in any way, just to be safe, I pressed a normal comment.
u2018-06-27-114	All right, we'll sort it out. [[Mónika Dunai: Thank you very much.]] Nevertheless, it is up to the congresswoman now, and she will go in her own order, as the Congresswoman has asked. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2019 central budget has been going on for a long, long time today, and in many cases there has been talk about education, budgetary resources for education, their transformation and the amount of money the government will allocate to education in the following year. I'd like to change the subject of education a little bit. I'm doing this because I have two children, 11th and 9th grade high school students. This means that my older son will be involved in not applying to a higher education institution from 2020 unless he has a language examination. There is very little mention that if the requirement for language exams requires students to fulfil this obligation, then what it is financed from, whether the current education system ensures that children and students learn these languages at secondary level, at least at B2 levels at school. In the high school and, of course, in the high school, we should not forget that many people want to participate in higher education. I made a short calculation. A lot has been said today about family allowance, family tax relief. This means that a parent with two children can receive a family allowance of HUF 26 600 and a family tax allowance of HUF 40,000 next year, a total of HUF 66 600. Seeing that schools are obviously unable to ensure that foreign language is taught in such groups that they can learn it as much as possible and pass the B2 language exam on the basis of the school number frames or pass the advanced language degree, they need to go to a private teacher. It's not uncommon, it's 4,000 forints a grammar lesson. I calculated: in this case, if you expect a private language class of HUF 4000, this HUF 66,000 will run out, if it is spent on the children, there is virtually nothing else that can be spent on this amount, since it will take at least two hours a week, so for two children this family tax and family allowance will run out for 16 hours. I don't know, but I feel that the only way to do this is to teach languages in even larger groups. This will also allow students whose parents cannot finance them to send them abroad for language learning or to have the child, the student, attend a private class. So I'm feeling a very, very serious problem here, because 2020 is knocking here. Yes, on Monday, if I remember correctly, there was a question about it, and the answer was that everyone has known since 2014 that this obligation would have been fulfilled and that this language exam could have been obtained for these students since 2014. I'm asking you, if you can't learn these languages in high school, in high school, even if you don't, but you won't be able to pick up this curriculum in high school, if you can't learn these languages to take your language exams, will you be excluded from higher education? In addition, I would like to draw attention to a very serious problem. Consider that he is graduating from high school, and since he is keen to continue studying, he says that he takes a year to learn the language well. We know that family tax breaks are related to family benefits. In this case, if one does not continue to study in the day system, then, indeed, after high school, he loses his entitlement to the family allowance, will not receive a family allowance and will therefore not be entitled to a family tax allowance. So if he, say, spends his family allowance and family tax allowance on nothing but the language exam, then this amount will not be available to get his language exam. I see that this issue in education should be very, very much considered. Obviously, we know that anyone who goes to two-language high schools, or who may be given the opportunity to receive a high-quality education in elementary school, after which he can go to a language prep school, can, yes, get the language exam. That's what I'm saying, because I graduated from two grammar schools, and that's where I got both my exam certificates. But let's face it, everyone in this country doesn't have the opportunity to continue their studies in two language high schools. This will prevent students whose parents are unable to produce the financial conditions of language learning from taking their language exams. [[19.40]] So this is the problem I wanted to raise here in the budget debate, because it's gonna push the family's wallet, and you said it's the year of the family. I hope that not only in 2019 but also in subsequent years in the education system, if and if the requirement for language examination is maintained as a means of further education, action will be taken in this respect, and language education will also be in high schools and vocational schools, with which the possibility of further education will be guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-116	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai will be given the floor, but unfortunately, in the sense that the government has applied for a speech, I give the floor first to the Secretary of State of the Government, Mr Pogácsás. I just want to say that you will be given the floor, as the representative of the government has said. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there has been a great deal of talk about issues affecting the Ministry of Interior through the budget. My fellow members of the Government have repeatedly said that the budget is a budget for security. That's true. This can be said of all sectors covered by the Ministry of Interior. It can be said to the municipalities, because my opposition fellow Members have tried to make the budget for the municipalities a negative one, but it is clear that, as has been the case in recent years, the municipal budget will continue to rise in the following year, providing resources for the municipalities to carry out their necessary and committed tasks. Let us add that, in addition to budget support, economic growth and revenues from economic growth also appear in the municipalities, as the business tax is very significant in a significant part of the municipalities. The balancing mechanism, which operates as a balancing mechanism between municipalities with low tax power and municipalities with strong tax power, helps municipalities with lower performance to obtain the necessary resources. That's how it will be in 2019. The old request, by the way, is a legitimate request, which may help to increase the wages of municipal workers, municipal civil servants, which, by the way, municipalities have had the opportunity to do before, will be available from the next budget year. After all, once again, the settlements, depending on their revenue performance, can apply to raise their employees' wages. It should be noted here that the concept of civil servants and public sector employees is regularly mixed. In recent years, the majority of civil servants have received a very significant wage increase through the career system. Just as, through the career system, law enforcement workers receive a significant wage increase. The final element of this launched career model will be available in the 2019 budget. Of course, we are not saying that the era of wage increases will end in Hungary. We are all aware that wage increases are also necessary in the public sector, and it is also necessary to follow economic processes. But what we've agreed to do can be tracked. Everyone can see that we have provided the necessary resources and that the workers have received it. As we can also see, in the following year, resources are available in the budget to strengthen the number of police officers, to ensure border protection. Just as it is also available to launch a prison programme, which has been enforced in the end due to an EU obligation. Public procurement is ongoing here. You just asked me a question about the prison in Kunmadara. The building of the Kunmadara prison is also under preparation. The Ministry of Interior and the municipalities held a consultation when selecting the prisons. In this consultation, different agreements were concluded with the various municipalities, in which the municipalities also took on tasks. These are being discussed at the moment in the case of the Kunmadara prison. So the preparation is also in progress there. We are obviously confident that these investments will be made after repeated successful public procurement. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-27-118	Thank you very much. It is now time for Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2019 budget is not only a budget for safe growth, but also a budget for families. In my second speech, I would like to talk about the budget for families. It is not only about the 2019 budget that the budget for families, but also this year's, 2018 budget, has become more and more so in recent years. Our goal is to be able to get more and more to families every year, depending on the performance of the economy, less and less spending on family households, and more and more benefits for families to raise their children, and more and more to feel safe about having children. When the previous governments ruled the country, it was not so. When the budget was negotiated, no family could have felt safe. No one could have known in advance when they were going to pull significant sums out of his pocket. Just a few examples here. Remember those socialist-free democrat times when all Hungarian pensioners were taken away a month's pension. Every family employed in the public sector was taken away from a month's wages. The visit fee was introduced, and they supported the introduction of tuition fees in Hungary. Families with small children were affected by a reduction from 3 to 2 years in the duration of their payment. They wiped out the Socpol, took the subsidised housing loans. When making their decisions, they were not looking after the interests of Hungarian families, but were already trying to serve Brussels and foreign interests. The Fidesz-KDNP government devotes a lot of energy to helping families with children to live. The measures taken to support the establishment of a family are all for this purpose. The benefit of the first spouses, the family-type tax system, the expansion of the baby bond, the flask program, the ged extra, the graduate, the family home creation discount, the reduction of mortgage debt in case of childbearing. In order to reconcile work and family life, we have introduced 40, and we support the cradle care system with significant amounts, and we have introduced the job protection action. We support low-income or disadvantaged families with free catering, free textbook supply and the Erzsébet program. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been pursuing a tax reduction policy to support families and job creation. As a result, wages will increase, employment will increase and the economy will grow dynamically. In recent years, the national government has developed an exemplary family support system. It reduced taxes on work and the most important food. It has significantly reduced household costs. It has carried out comprehensive wage increases and launched a unique home creation programme in Europe. This is the policy of Fidesz and KDNP, their main objectives, and we intend to continue this policy in the future. [[19.50]] Almost 5 percent of GDP is already spent on the family support system in this year's budget. I think that not only we Fidesz and KDNPs can be proud of this, but the entire Parliament could be proud of the fact that not only in Europe, but in a unique way throughout the world, we are spending such a large amount on the family support system. If we add what economic conditions we started governance in 2010, I think that step-by-step gradual development deserves even more respect from the opposition. We know that we are not at the end of the road, and we know very well that we must and will give more support to the families. But it can also be seen how much help this significant amount can provide, and with visible and demonstrable numbers, not only at the level of political lounges, but also at the level of families, not only families with small children, but also young people, and families with elderly parents and elderly parents in the family. So not only are we thinking of young children, young families when we set up the budget, and we are not just taking the family narrowly, but also extending it to the entire family, including pensioners, grandparents and grandparents. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2019 budget, there is more to families than ever before, and the family tax relief of two children continues to increase. One of our main objectives in 2019 is to promote support for families. One of the tools for this is the family tax system, which has been providing low personal income tax and family tax relief to families since 2011. In 2019, the tax relief for two children will continue to increase: the tax relief for two children will double in 2019 compared to the level of HUF 20,000 per month in 2015, leaving nearly 350 thousand families with more money. In total, almost 400 billion HUF will be spent on family-friendly tax and contribution reductions next year, which is more than 10 percent higher than this year's amount, which I have just said was also a very high, significant amount. This is HUF 355 billion for family tax incentives. There's more money for family support. In 2019 there will be more money than ever, HUF 2004 billion to support families, which is HUF 75 billion more than in 2018. This amount is more than twice higher than the amount the Balliberal Government turned on families in 2010. We cannot say that this is because of inflation, because we know that inflation is falling gradually and that in recent years it has hardly been detected. We will spend 265 billion forints next year on other work-based family allowances, such as baby care fees, childcare fees, and maternity benefits, 14 percent more than this year. There are 242 billion forints to support families' home creation. In 2019 we will also spend more money than ever to support home creation. Since the introduction of CSOK in 2015, it has helped to create 75,000 families. We also provide the necessary resources for free children's meals and free textbooks in the budget. Today, half a million children eat for free, and over a million children receive free textbooks. The government also provides free meals for children in need during school holidays. For social meals, the draft 2019 budget will receive HUF 78.9 billion and HUF 11 billion for free textbooks. It is also good news for children in kindergarten, parents of children in kindergarten and maintenance authorities and churches that in the 2019 budget we increase the management and support of kindergartens from the current specific amount of HUF 81 700 per person per year to HUF 97 400 per person per year. The main task of the measure is to support the operation of kindergartens, which does not include the professional implementation of the pedagogical programme in itself, and therefore, in order to improve its content, an additional HUF 500 million will be added to the budget next year. We provide an additional HUF 3 billion for the purchase of the necessary equipment to provide the necessary quality preschool professional services. Ladies and gentlemen, Not to take advantage of your patience, I do not want to take advantage of the remaining 93 minutes 37 seconds, which are still at Fidesz' disposal, and I will leave plenty of time for the secretary of state to respond, as well as for my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, The basic and natural institution of the family is based on all other communities and society as a whole. The well-being of the family is a social policy issue and a guarantee of the future quality of life of the nation. The family is the national and European common denominator that we must defend with utmost care. The future of Hungary and Europe lies in families, the birth of the desired children, which is what we Members must support with all our strength, with all possible means, including in the 2019 budget. In view of the importance of supporting the family chapter, I would like Parliament to support the budget as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-120	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Péter Fekete, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State of the EMMI. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-121	Mr President, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Congressman Lords! Three questions have been raised in the cultural sector over the past period, please allow me to respond to them. Congressman Péter Ungár spoke with my heart on the issue of the increase and pay of actors. It is great happiness for me if he too considers acting, actors, to be one of the main carriers of our culture. Hungary maintains a very exceptional theater operation system here in the middle of Europe: we operate our stone theatre with 18 permanent rural companies with municipal ownership and state central budget support. Over the years, the amount of money going into the theatre sphere, central support, has been kept at a constant level, but please do not forget that the amount of money flowing into this sphere will increase by more than one billion forints per year with the help of our very special system, our corporate tax relief system. The responsibility for this is also the responsibility of our theatre directors, our theater producers. There is a need for the cultural wallet to pay, pay, pay, and produce the best productions in our theatres. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned a half sentence on the subject of gymnasiums that hit my ear. If I understood the voice of the congresswoman correctly, she learned that there are parents living in her surroundings who are loyal to their children, even falsely, to participate in a sports club. Ladies and Gentlemen, The cultural wallet, the cultural sector, has a very big responsibility for calling and explaining to the heads of institutions, so to the community organizers, but so to the parents, what responsibility we have in the education of culture, what song the mother sings to her child, how she tells her how long she sits next to her when she sleeps in bed, where the father spends her weekend, goes to the zoo with her child, is she on a trip with her, is she in a gallery with her, is she in a false certificate to our child. [[20.00]] My mother was a school principal, and she never, under any circumstances, expressed her love and accomplice to her child by signing a false certificate. I would like to ask Members with respect that, if they know about this, they help with the work of the cultural portfolio, we work together to make parental responsibility and community-organizing family responsibility even stronger. Dr. László György Lukács asked about the shaman drum. It's about an emblematic installation of the Milan World Exhibition. I myself participated several times in the operation of this shaman drum in Milan, where I myself experienced that one of the busiest installations in one of the most central locations was the shaman drum. The cross-section of our cultural life was well demonstrated, not only by musical, not only by dance performances, but also as a venue for economic, tourist and cultural negotiations and contracts. My view during my absence was that it served the cause of Hungarian culture well. These installations are built without a recycling plan, without any intention of recycling, but the recycling of this shaman drum has already occurred before. Several times, in several circles, several cities have come to wish to build this cultural installation. I myself know about Szombathely, I know about Cegléd, and the current situation is that the city of Karcag has won that right, the opportunity to rebuild this installation, this building in their city as a cultural scene. Right now, it's torn apart in Karcagon. What needs to be considered by city leaders is that this is a temporary installation, in order for it to function as a cultural scene in the long term, certain changes must be made, and this is the responsibility and the task of the city. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State László Mosóczi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, please.
u2018-06-27-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, With regard to road transport and road infrastructure, two comments were made by honourable Members, which I would briefly reflect on. One is the renovation of the back roads. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. He manages nearly 32,000 kilometers of national roads in the territory of our country. This includes everything from motorways to four five-digit trips. In the framework of a five-year operating grant agreement, we spend an increasing amount each year on the support of the Hungarian Public Road, which spends this amount on the maintenance of the national road network. This year it will reach more than HUF 80 billion and by 2020 it will reach HUF 100 billion a year. In addition, a 106 billion-dollar road renovation programme, which includes the renovation of 12 bridges and the renovation of motorways, main roads and side roads in every corner of the country, is taking place this year, as well as in 2019. The other question was about the construction of the M4 motorway. The government has two main objectives for road infrastructure development. One is that county seats and county towns should be connected to the national motorway network by 2022, and the other is that motorways that are heading towards national borders should reach the national border. There is, of course, always a condition where the neighbouring country has the capacity to receive it. The M4 aims to reach the Romanian border on the one hand and Szolnok on the other. The Romanian border is currently secured on the motorway towards Nagylak, but obviously Romania and Transylvania are targeting completely different corners. At the moment, the M35 Debrecen-Berettyó new village motorway and the M4 Berettyóújfalu-Nagykereki border section are being implemented. Both are supported by the Commission of the European Union and we have already received a positive response to the aid application. This means that the first phase of the M35 has already been delivered, that during 2019-20-21 both the M35 and the M4 sections concerned will be put into operation, so in 2021 the Romanian border will be available at Nagykereki. The M4 is on its way to Nagykereki; the construction of the Sitlő-Abony section is in progress, according to schedule. The preparation of the Abony-Törökszentmiklós phase will be carried out from the financing of the Hungarian budget; and the preparation of the new phase of the Armed Forces-Püspökladány-Berettyóújfalu has begun. So it will be possible to reach Nagykerek in both directions in the medium term. I would like to note that in addition to EU funding, the Hungarian Government will spend nearly HUF 1500 billion on developing the Hungarian motorway network in the coming years, including this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-27-124	Thank you very much. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik is coming. Here you go.
u2018-06-27-125	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the State Secretarys who have just spoken, for giving us the honour of hearing about both the M4 and the pavilion of the Milan World Exhibition, which is commonly known only as the Shaman drum. This is perhaps interesting in that way, and I would like to join the Shaman drum theme - that, as Péter Fekete said just now, very well, what it did was, well, after the change of function, that if Karcagra were to do so, he would unfortunately have fewer visitors or other functions, and that is perhaps the only problem that you said that the local government would have to look at or figure out what you can get out of it. The fact, Mr Secretary of State, is that tourism in this area is a fairly weak talent, and it is very difficult for those who discover the country in tourism, whether foreign or domestic, and the fact that it has a cultural function in itself is very good, or that it is intended for a cultural function will be extremely good, but how it can be filled with content is another question. But I think the most important obstacle to all of this is that, if I start out right, the municipality really has to reach into its pocket or finance this building in some way, which, knowing the situation, we can go back to the situation of the municipalities - it may not be a successful project. Here, many of us have been concerned about the resources that the municipalities can expect, and we know what tasks they carry out, whether basic tasks or these mandatory tasks to be carried out, for which the source was provided at the previous year's level, and even a rise somewhere else. Obviously, the municipality will perform these tasks, but from my experience and from recent years it is unable to carry out all the other tasks of the municipality, if there is no adequate business tax or other income, and the fact is that in the eastern part Karcag is also such a place. But Mr Happy also comes from a place and lives in a place where the municipalities, I am not saying that they are limited, but have almost no business tax space. However, large businesses avoid most of the settlements, there are very few places, perhaps here in our neighbourhood Szolnok, Törökszentmiklós, Jászberény, which can count on business tax revenue in substance, but for example, Tiszafüred, Karcag, Kunhegyes, Abádszalók, could be listed, or even Püspökladány, they are in a position not to expect this. And if you don't have this foot, you don't have this source, then almost nothing can be done. And here we have come to another question, which I would like to clarify: this is the issue of these TOP applications. In recent years, almost all municipalities involved in the TOP tender reported that what was planned and calculated was not going to be essentially sufficient. This must therefore be replaced either in some way, which could result in borrowing or otherwise reduce the content or technical content of the construction. So, on some level, I think that the municipalities are in a pliers, and unlike you, I can honestly say that I am always trying to look into the operation of the municipalities, even though you have created a mood in the constituency and in the countryside that your Fidesz municipal mayors refuse to speak to me, despite the fact that I myself was a municipal representative between 2010-14, and I knew and I know exactly what problems the local government has. However, they do not communicate in anything, but it does not stop me from looking at their records and seeing what is really going on in the management and everyday life of the settlement. [[20.10]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, despite not telling you, these municipalities are in terrible trouble. A lot of municipalities have very little room for manoeuvre. At some point, it would be our job to support the development needs of the municipality not only through EU funds but also through the provision of other resources locally. Then it'll all turn back to the theme of the Shaman drum. What will a local government, a local government in Karcag, always fill the minus budget of the minus HUF 100 million with the fact that, on the one hand, it is waiting for other sources from the central budget to arrive at the end of the year and filling the holes for good, but on the other hand, it is planning to sell 100 million real estates in order to have a zero budget? This means nothing but that the municipalities are not on their feet, and I say, for example, this is a settlement in Karcag. Or think about it, for example, there is a settlement in the constituency, Abádszalók, where in one of the joint companies owned by another municipality they cannot ask the municipality for 15 million HUF back, because if they ask for it back, they cannot implement what they planned in a BM tender. It is 15 million forints, and in the life of a local government, there are almost penny problems for a settlement of 4-5 thousand people. So, here's the thing. I don't think there's anything good going on here in the big damn centralization. Regardless of what kind of municipal line Jobbik is, but I think we have a unified position on this, I am not in favour of this excessive centralisation. As it has been proven, that centralisation in health is not entirely healthy, as it has been proven that neither institutional nor decision-making centralisation is adequate in education policy, we should have more confidence in local authorities. I know that there were very sad examples of the period before 2010, when the municipalities were indebted, they had no other option. In an economic situation, they were in a budgetary environment, and in many cases, I think they were playing into it after that, that they had to take out the loans, issue bonds, which we all, together, grunted back and spoke out, and, at the expense of the central budget, basically, got rid of. But, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to say is that we should believe, and I think that you should trust that your fellow Members, our fellow Members or our socialist fellow Members or the independents in the municipalities know exactly what to do, and in many cases I think they see it better than any Member of Parliament, even if someone is so enthusiastic, and I now intended this as a compliment, as our fellow Member, István Happy, who, by the way, regularly tends and expires these municipalities. Many of us could, by the way, take an example of this. But even he knows that these municipalities should be given more substantial room for farming and should be given significantly more opportunities. I would like to say one more practical thing, perhaps, if the Secretary of State's reply can be extorted in this, or his position. Our fellow Members and I have decided to try the same thing that we tried in 2014, which coincides with the expectations of the Hungarian Bar Association and, in my view, with the expectations of legal representatives. This is the increase in the public defender's fee, and we have again set the flag to raise their fee on the basis of the public defender's fee in legal proceedings. Here the situation was that the public defenders had worked at an hourly rate of HUF 3000. Following these 2014 opposition proposals, of course, as a proposal of its own, the government finally took it and raised it to HUF 5000. Since then, I think that time has passed, so much change has occurred, and even the prestige of the profession must be taken into account, that it would be justified to make a repeat change. The budgetary impact of this is not, by the way, a huge item, so we are not talking about several billion forints. We're talking about a few billion forints, maybe two billion forints wouldn't even be worth the adjustment. I'd really like that. Then I look to the Ministry of Justice to think that, regardless of whether we are talking about their oppositions or not, I think it is in the common interest of the legal profession to talk about how to adjust the public defender fees to the wage increase that has been made in other areas, and which, by the way, does not appear in the public defender's fee. However, we could also debate or talk about how the judges' salary base could be modified, because I think that is also really necessary. But let's start with this first, if we can get an answer as to whether the government has a similar position. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that in 2014 the Hungarian Bar Association wanted to raise it to HUF 10,000, which I thought was unrealistic at the time, and we did not, by chance, submit HUF 5000, which you otherwise promised. So that was basically one of the last parts I wanted to clarify with you. Of course, we still reserve the right to respond to anything in the remaining time frame, but perhaps this is still round, and then a line of thought can be closed here. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-06-27-126	Thank you, too. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Pogács, please.
u2018-06-27-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would certainly like to respond to some of the issues concerning the municipalities. So, on the one hand, it is obviously a serious question of what settlement between municipalities with different capacities should be, or whether the compensation system that we operate is good or not. I believe that the method of setting up is a good method, since very rich municipalities receive no or partial State aid for the tasks delegated by the State, and in return we turn it towards low-income municipalities. Obviously, a situation will be very long when the state will be able to meet the necessary development resources everywhere, regardless of its own revenue, at 100%. But I consider it to be a much better situation than when the municipalities were indebted, and there are over 1,400 municipalities, to which we say they received compensation because they were not indebted, but this non-debtedness was largely because they did not even have the means and the opportunity to take credit at all. This is where nearly HUF 50 billion was published for development, and there is still a domestic source of development. The image that municipalities would be in a worse and worse situation cannot be clearly supported, since, on the one hand, for years now, the municipal sector has been closing the budget year with a positive slump, and we also see that the inefficient municipalities, the proposals received, are decreasing both in numerical terms and in the value of the amount applied for. I am sure, and here I repeat what has been said earlier, that it is obviously also brought about by the strengthening of the economy, because a good part of the municipalities and the fact is that, above all, there has been an increase in the revenue of larger municipalities, but also of business tax. I think that Karcag is not necessarily a good example of the lack of resources municipalities, because in recent years Karcag and his region have undergone significant improvements and industrial entrepreneurial developments which ensure that they have increased revenues from year to year, not to mention that specific government support for the construction of this building has also been presented to Karcag separately. So you will be able to if you provide the necessary technical conditions to build this structure. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-27-128	Thank you very much. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr. István Happy, please order.
u2018-06-27-129	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor in normal time because in the second half of what I have to say, I will want to connect to Mr Péter Fekete, Secretary of State, but first I would like to respond to what Congressman Lajos Rig has to say. I am glad that you have finally managed to speak up after I have called for you, and that you have admitted that you have spoken more because I have spoken. It's a great pleasure for me. You know, Congressman, the difference between you and me is that I have been elected a third time, because even Congressman Luke, his fellow Member, admits that I do a lot for voters and my constituency. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I know that you go everywhere!]] The thing is, that's what the voters admitted. You know, I've done a lot for health, too, because I've been visiting the field-tour rescue station you mentioned when I became a congressman. Well, not the one where the paramedics are now, but the predecessor that we successfully inherited from the Bolshevik-liberal government. I have to be honest with you that there were unworthy circumstances, not ambulances, but unworthy of anything. I'm very proud of how I managed to get the paramedics to build a beautiful rescue station, get new cars, including the car you're saying, which I wasn't involved in, because at the time I was in Parliament, but luckily we got new ambulances, so it went pretty well. [[20.20]] I must say that when we talk about health care, that I should be proud not only of this rescue station, but also that we have renewed and continued to renew many of the medical offices in the area. We have spent billions of HUF to improve health care over the last eight years. And this is ongoing, for example, the renovation of Csépa's medical office is ongoing. But there's also a renovation of the medical office of the Grand Village of your brother. And perhaps there will be three medical offices in the small communities that have not yet been renovated. I trust that these will also happen, even because my own residence, the medical office of the village of Képpo, can be renovated. Then I would like to join Mr Péter Fekete, Secretary of State, who spoke about the need to do important things in the family, for example, to tell a story. I would also recommend to Mr Secretary of State what I suggested to the Government, I also sent it in writing at the end of the previous term and I have already delivered it to Mr Latorcai, State Secretary, which I did in my own district, because I think that education and the preservation of the culture of Hungarians should start in childhood. Family, educational-educational facility. I decided to take the Hungarian folk tale to every kindergarten in my constituency. I also suggested to the Hungarian government that we take the Hungarian folk tale to all the Hungarian kindergartens of the Carpathian Basin in a book, DVD, board game, card game, in any way so that children can learn about it and pass it on. I got it from my grandparents, my grandmother, from the Hungarian folk tale, and she still talked. I tell my little boy a book, but I've seen cartoons. I think that today's children get to know Hungarian folk tales better in the virtual world, either in a board game or in a movie or in a computer game. The point is to meet him. I believe that in a thousand years, the Carpathian Basin will be loud with the Hungarian word, and in order to do so, everything that is the tradition of Hungarian culture, the heritage of Hungarian culture, which we inherited from our ancestors, must be passed on to our children, our grandchildren. And I think one part of this is the Hungarian folk tale. But not only is it a Hungarian folk tale, but a story like this is a life lesson, a life wisdom left by our ancestors. I urge the Secretary of State to take advantage of this opportunity. I took him to more than 60 kindergartens in my own constituency, and across the border to Transcarpathia, Transylvania, and soon to go to the Highlands. What my financial opportunities allow me to do is to get to as many kindergartens as possible, but I think it may also be a nice government task to take the Hungarian folk tale to every Hungarian kindergarten in the Carpathian Basin, so that our children can get to know this, so that what I believe in and why I work, that after a thousand years, the Carpathian Basin will be loud with the Hungarian word, and that Hungarian should be the leading nation here. That is why I work, and I ask Mr. Secretary of State to support me in this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-27-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2018-06-27-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that Congresswoman Mónika Dunai is no longer in this House, because I was very pleased to hear you talk about the year of families and the subsidies that the government provides for families. I would turn back to my previous speech when I said that family allowance and family tax relief are partners. Indeed, in today's world, it can be said that the child must be supported not until the age of 18-20, but even 25-26 years. We consider it very important to have a family tax reduction, the introduction and direction of which were very good, and of course it helps families, but it is no longer enough that family allowances are subject to family tax benefits, because sometimes family allowances are no longer due, and families are therefore deprived of family tax benefits. That's what I wanted to tell you. I trust families will continue to be the first. Families are also the most important to the Jobbik faction, because without children there is no nation and no Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-132	Dear Parliament, Dear Congressmen! Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] No. As a matter of fact, the general debate will be adjourned until 8 a.m. tomorrow, and today's session will continue tomorrow. This brings us to the end of our agenda, and now we are going to have speeches after the agenda. Among these, I called Mr Arató Gergő, a representative of the Democratic Coalition, who, by the way, only because of our special relationship, because his fair name was Gergely Arató, so I did not want to offend the Member - the representative of the Democratic Coalition can speak: . How long can he stay in his place with the title of the director who assaults students. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-27-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I want to reassure Mr István Happy that the government has done great in telling stories, and there is no problem there. Unfortunately, however, I do not want to tell you a story, although perhaps at this late hour we would all be better off with it. I have a very sad real story to tell in this House. In Budapest, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, However, the police investigation revealed a number of conflicting facts, and according to the press reports, the student reported this story in a completely different way. According to him, the principal called him into his office, where they were alone, and the director ordered him to unload his bag, and then, as the child refused to do so, he gave him a slap, and then two more when he asked why he got this. Also, according to the student, he didn't wait for the fourth, but ran out and pushed the principal. That would have been the abuse. Also, according to the press, one of the teachers heard the kid beg not to hurt you, Director. Of course, we can say that the student is lying. But according to another teacher, the boy trembled, wept, was covered in water. According to the press, the witnesses also told us that the warden had repeatedly taken care of this child, where he had his bag, where he had his pockets unpacked. The student is a Roma. Understandably, you find it humiliating that the director is constantly suggesting that he's stealing. According to press reports, teachers and parents are aware of four other cases when the director assaulted students and the victim was always a Roma student. The legal situation is quite clear. The Public Education Act 46. §2 of the Act states that the child's student personality, human dignity and rights must be respected and protected against physical and psychological violence. The child and the student shall not be subjected to physical and psychological punishment, torture, cruel, inhumane, degrading punishment or treatment. Similarly, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states. Obviously, there is a serious crisis in this institution. In the last few days, 20 children have left the institution and further students are planning to leave. Five teachers have already resigned, and 23 more want to leave the institution according to the press. However, the employer, the school's maintainer, the Central Pest District Directorate did not choose what we would all choose in this situation, did not investigate the case, did not initiate proceedings. The principal of the district claims that he has not received a complaint. Of course, there have been announcements, but it seems that they have not yet reached the principal or were not in the mood to deal with them. Plus, the department's mills are slowly grinding, and the school is failing, and the child's best interests are of no interest to anyone. How could such a man be a school principal? That's the question we need to ask here at the house of the country. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, your responsibility here is very clearly visible. As a candidate for Fidesz, the director was the mayor of a village in Szabolcs-Szatmár county between 2010 and 2014. In four years, however, the citizens of the settlement had had had enough of it and were expelled in 2014. But we had to do something about the good cadre. Since he obtained his education degree by 2016, he was appointed Head of School in 2017. [[20.30]] He was appointed, despite the fact that the representative body of the district municipality unanimously protested against him, mainly because he did not have the necessary practice, and even the Fidesz municipal representatives did not support him. Parents also opposed him, and only 13 percent of the faculty accepted his pedagogical program. But it didn't matter, the omnipotent and omniscient center knew better who was needed at that school, and he didn't need a year to destroy the institution and destroy the lives of a number of children, according to press reports. I'm sorry that the Minister [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He's not here now, just like he's never been in the country's house before, and now his State Secretarys are gone, so from the Ministry, I'm afraid we won't get an answer to what they're planning on doing in this case and whether they're taking responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-27-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech with the title "What is left out of the budget debate." Here you go.
u2018-06-27-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Now, traditionally, after every budgetary debate, when we have the opportunity, on the one hand, to help the overshoot or push out of the limited time limits with a summary, a combination, and every year I have done it - which we have not been able to say here in plenary, and these are the improvements, the amendments that opposition representatives have very little chance of reaching, but which the whole country needs, judging by the generality of the population, the constituency or the generality of affairs. So allow me, Mr Secretary of State and my honourable fellow Member, to draw your attention to such matters and propose such improvements to your attention. As a proposed amendment, and here today we have discussed the M4 road several times - that until then the weapon is deadly, we can say that the case of a horror intersection will be settled once and for all. This is the crossroads that travels along the inner section of road 4 now and, leaving it, exists as an extremely dangerous intersection. Technically, in a year, there are 8-9 very serious, serious injuries and at least one or two fatal accidents there, of course, projected for a long time, the statistics may have a different distribution, but this is an extremely dangerous intersection where it has to be resolved that at the level crossing, pedestrians, cyclists or those who are going to the bus stop can safely get through, or those who are otherwise trying to cross this section by means of a passenger car. You don't have to tell me that this is part of a dangerous phase of Route 4 and a continuation of where the Ceglédbercel tragedy can happen, where at the crossing of Szolnok 4, there are particularly serious accidents, so it's an area that is really dangerous. That is why we have proposed that the government accept its security and incorporate this amendment. But I suggested improving the trip to Nagyiván, because it is a respectable Hortobágy-sélesi, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, and it is now slowly a bunk village, because it is impossible to get there from one direction only, but it is almost impossible to get to the settlement from Hortobágy, and it makes it difficult for people to travel there every day, that the road is in such a state that in many cases war correspondents experienced in the South Slav war saw different paths after the bombings. I also suggested, and this is a central issue, that we do something about indebted hospitals. I did not see the item in the budget, which is about HUF 30 billion, which would be necessary for the one-off debt settlement of the indebted hospitals; it would be best to prevent this from being re-produced, but until it is produced, they should be freed from it. That's why I suggested such a proposal. The other is the additional and additional support for health NGOs. Here the budget provides, I think, seven civil society organisations that do health work, their support, here I have proposed a surplus to make their activities better and more, and two very important foundations, on the one hand, the Mályvavirág Foundation, which not only provides advice on cervical cancer screenings, but also on the recovery, care, life management and everything after cervical cancer, so it is a very important activity for the ladies, and so far has not received such support, otherwise we are talking about a sum of HUF 20 million. But there is also the Hungarian Hospice Foundation. We remember that it was the Hungarian Hospice Foundation, which got into very, very, very much trouble during the year, and had to be helped along the way. It would be important for them to have a predictable and predictable support, i.e. a separate line in the budget. But I also suggested a HUF 300 million development to help the hospital in Karcag, with which not only the central part of the hospital, the part of Karcagon, but it is very important to improve the care facility in Kunhegyes, and especially for older people and chronic patients. And a very important, overall social issue: I believe that, at a time when social media has surfaces that funnyly try to make excessive alcohol consumption look like a funny thing, it is particularly dangerous that Hungary does not have an alcohol strategy, there is no first one in Hungary, numero 1 is an appropriate strategy and a plan for the most dangerous public health problem. This has to be done, Mr. Secretary, and money has to be spent on this. This is on the one hand [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the health government, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, as the hand giving money, is also responsible. I would also ask my fellow Members and members of the Government to support these amendments, because they are all very important both nationally and locally. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-27-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 8:00 a.m. I'm closing the meeting, saying good night to all of you.
