u2018-11-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members. The 24th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, József Móring and Gergely Arató will be notaries to help me. I also welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. A general debate on the bill on ensuring the home creation of natural persons in the National Asset Management Programme will follow until closure. Government referral T/3604. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-28-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, By submitting a bill before you, the government's goal is to return the homes of the people in trouble due to foreign exchange loans, which were previously taken from them by the banks. The economic crisis in the years 2007-2008 has led to a large number of property owners with foreign currency credit being trapped. The Balliberal Government has failed people, has not paid attention to the difficult situation of foreign exchange lenders, so many have lost their homes. In 2011, the Fidesz-KDNP government announced the Home Protection Action Plan, which included the establishment of the National Asset Manager to help the most socially deprived lenders and to buy their homes. The Fidesz-KDNP government has provided for the purchase of residential property for the most socially deprived persons, so some 154 thousand people have escaped from the multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay in their homes at a very favourable rate compared to market prices. As a result of the economic growth of the past period, the government has introduced a number of measures to improve the livelihood of families and citizens, which have helped to stabilise the situation of the majority of tenants in recent years. This enabled the government to now decide to further assist the persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme with the initiative of the bill in the form of a highly favourable buy-back offer. According to the proposal, tenants who regularly pay rent can again acquire ownership of their former properties, so they can buy back their homes on favourable terms. Stakeholders can once again become owners of tenants, providing them with the possibility of long-term home creation. In order to acquire ownership, the government offers the possibility of a lump sum repurchase whereby the purchase price is reduced by the amount of rents previously paid by the tenant, the State does not charge interest and it is also possible to obtain a further percentage discount if the tenant so requests or requests. This preferential offer can also be made by close relatives of tenants. The government also thinks of tenants who, in view of their financial situation, are unable to make use of the possibility of a lump sum buy-back, thus ensuring that they can be re-owners by means of the instalments. In the case of tenants opting for the instalment, the purchase price will also be reduced by the amount of rent previously paid by the tenant and no interest will be charged by the State. The monthly amount of the instalments shall be determined in accordance with the rentals currently paid, with the aim of not increasing the monthly burden on families. In order to facilitate the acquisition of property by the State, it is proposed that the financial and procedural levies incurred in the acquisition of property should be borne by the State. The bill ensures that those who do not wish to make use of the government's offer can remain tenants under the current rent. The Government will also not abandon those who, at least in the form of a declaration of intent, have indicated their wish to be included in the programme until the legislative proposal has been submitted. Their properties are still purchased by the state through the National Asset Manager. On the basis of the bill, the tenants concerned will receive a detailed written offer on the above mentioned options by the end of March 2019 at the latest. The government is offering vacant properties which remain in the government's possession primarily to address the needs of the health sector for the purpose of exploitation as a service dwelling. If the vacant property is not necessary for this purpose, it shall be sold and the municipality competent for the location of the property may have free ownership. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Through the provisions of the bill presented above, the government allows people in difficulty due to the foreign exchange crisis to get their homes taken by banks back. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament and my fellow Members, in addition to considering and discussing what they have said, the T/3604. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the objective set out in the bill by voting in favour. Thank you for your early morning attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-11-28-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, early morning is a relative concept. [[Defiance.]] Depending on when you get up. So, after these things have been put forward, I would like to tell you that there will be speeches by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key and helpful elements of the series of home protection measures launched by the civil government is the National Asset Management Ltd. a programme operated by the Member State concerned. Net Zrt. Its statutory core activity is to provide housing for real estate owners who have been unable to pay their mortgage loans for a long time and who also need it socially. Today, we are also pleased to say that the Hungarian economy is achieving better results every year, and fortunately this is the case in 2018. Therefore, as a result of the positive changes in the economy, the government has decided, with the initiative of this bill, to provide further assistance to the natural persons involved in the national asset management programme by providing them with the opportunity to create a home. With this measure, the government is clearly and firmly seeking to bring back the homes of the people in distress, which had previously to be divorced because of the strict and excessive demands of the banks. [[9.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In 2011, the Fidesz-KDNP government and the Banking Association announced a home protection action plan include, inter alia, the launch or establishment of the National Asset Manager in order to purchase the housing of the most socially deprived lenders. From the start of the program until 30 September 2018, the National Asset Manager purchased nearly 36 thousand and 35 715 properties using HUF 136.6 billion of budget resources, which allowed some 154 thousand people to escape their multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay in their homes. It is also important to point out that, on the basis of the government's decision, the National Asset Manager is expected to buy some 2 thousand real estates in order to assist persons who have indicated their intention to participate in the programme to the financial institutions or to the National Asset Manager until the proposal is submitted. The NET program is also internationally unique and unique. A public home-protection measure for which we do not really find examples in Europe or in the world. In fact, the scheme has been able to avoid the fact that the mortgaged property was forced to be sold by the lien in an enforcement procedure or outside of it by the lender, thus avoiding the imposition of the eviction of the debtors. In addition to the fact that, thanks to the growth of the economy, the government has introduced a number of measures to improve and strengthen the capacity of families and citizens to work in recent years, along with the closure of the NET programme, it intends to help former owners to buy their properties back. Dear Parliament, I think it is important to say that the NET programme also provides a solution for those who have a problem with paying the rent or the common cost of the condominium. Collaborating tenants can settle their debts under a personalized mentoring programme and thus retain their housing. With the help of the NET programme and the increase in the performance of the economy in recent years and the improvement of the labour market situation, the situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised, so that they can again ensure the full maintenance and maintenance of their property themselves; accordingly, the next step is to strengthen ownership responsibility by extending the possibilities for the recovery of former tenants' property. With this solution, the State is exempted from the operation of the highly dispersed housing stock and the tenants are able to recover the ownership of their property. Under the NET Act, there are currently 72 months from the date of the contract, i.e. six years for tenants to be able to settle their financial situation in addition to the reduced rent, even by buying their property back. As regards the repayment obligation, it is a fundamental objective for as many tenants as possible to make use of the possibility of a lump sum buy-back. The main means of this is that the State grants discounts on the purchase price in the course of the buy-back. The essence of the scheme is that, in order to ensure that tenants who meet their payment obligations and the creation of homes are provided as widely as possible, close relatives of tenants are also given the opportunity to purchase the property they rent with significant discounts, even in one amount. If I may, I would also like to briefly mention that the implementing regulation of the bill contains additional benefits. One of the most important is the interest exemption, under which the State does not charge interest in the calculation of the purchase price and the rent already paid by the tenant until 31 December 2018, as we have heard from the State Secretary in his exposé. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the economic crisis ten years ago, a significant proportion of property owners with foreign currency loans were trapped in a currency trap. Unfortunately, the socialist government at the time did not pay enough attention to alleviate the serious problems of citizens in debt spirals and to remedy the economic and social problems of foreign exchange loans. On the other hand, as of 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken a number of decisions to help foreign exchange victims through various measures, to return the homes of people in distress, and to provide all Hungarian families with the possibility of home creation. In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-5	Mr President, Dear House, It would be difficult for the opposition representative to get out of the night mood we had a few hours ago. Fidesz-KDNP will present sly, sly bill proposals to the House this week; what makes things even more stomach-stricken in the case of the tool management proposal before us is the justification. So the government is trying to act as if it is exercising some kind of favor, exercising a benefit for the victims, for the victims, who have been partially deprived of it, and I would add that even at this point, even after a great breath, we can agree, because whatever your intention is, if you put a positive proposal to the House for the victims, I can obviously support it at the expense of great hesitation, but that is why I can support it. However, in this case, it is not certain that this is the case, which is what we need to agree on in this debate. I mean, what I'm saying is that if you want to open up to anyone the opportunity to regain ownership of their own property, in this way you will not get any help from the outside of your former life, but in this case, you can somehow afford or somehow get your situation settled, this is a political science fiction, but let's assume that there are victims, then this happens. At the same time, the fact that the government is lying all over the place that he's giving us discounts is very impressive. Well, at home in front of the mirror... I don't know, it's kind of hard to explain. What is it really about? These unfortunate people have typically lost their own property without their own faults. Where the story began, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, we could discuss it for a long time, I think, in 2001. Who was in the government when unilateral treaty amendments became widely possible? So the particular spirit from the bottle was released from the bottle by the then government, the then central bank, the then custody. Then came eight years of economic policy spree, when they actually allowed these so-called loans to increase and the problem to spread so far that it was almost unmanageable. But since then, eight and a half years have passed, and the original condition has not been restored. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! You have agreed on two levels with the relevant commercial banks, so the perpetrators, let's say. On the one hand, they also made a deal with the Banking Association and, on the other hand, signed a EBRD pact in 2015, where they agreed not to impose additional burdens on the banks concerned for the benefit of the victims in order to settle their situation. You've written this down, it's still available on the Internet. Let us tell you: what happened after this, instead of HUFing these so-called loans at the rate of the day of admission, according to Jobbik's proposal, you threw a market HUF into the customers' neck; so the person who typically took this so-called loan at HUF 155-160 received a market rate of HUF 256. With this justification, you still owe me. So how could it happen that this thousands of billions of dollars has now been legally legalized and legally legalized by you to be taken from people, but still unwarranted. That doesn't mean it wasn't fair. What does Viktor Orbán say? We returned or returned 1000 billion forints to the victims. The Government of Hungary, does not donate, but typically spins taxpayers' payments and rotates the available assets. [[9.20]] But if a thousand billion of the stolen items were returned because we're talking about stolen items here, then what about the other two or three thousand billion, the larger, large part of the stolen property, which is left with the banks involved. So we're talking about an incredibly vile base based on which these people's debts have been calculated. This calculation of the amount of debt results in the amount of debt and the amount of debt they are required when they have lost ownership of their property. So if we are talking about the asset manager, the acceptable solution would be to determine, after recalculating loans at the rate of admission, whether these customers owe anyone at all before you talk about buying back your own apartment or house. And if that clarification was made, if the contracts were cleared of financial waste, then this debate could be held, which is now in front of us. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]] The fact is that this did not happen, you intend to buy back your own unwarranted property to the Hungarian people at our loan price, and they say that they will give you discounts for this. Well, let's see what kind of discounts this construction offers. Do you even realize how much rent a man who lives in an asset management apartment typically pays? Are you aware that here they are trying to set a few thousand forints as a discount or discount on the housing to be bought back at the multimillion-dollar exchange rate? Well, they'd like to throw glass beads in front of people, which is humiliating, unworthy, and vile. And I'm still saying the same thing as the exchange rate barrier, so Jobbik's position is consistent in this: if anyone wants to do this on their own, then do it, so let's not take away the possibility. However, I also see that the procedure contributes to an unfair mass looting of people. I would like to ask my fellow Fidesz lead speaker, my fellow Member, with great respect, to show at least sufficient restraint in the explanatory statement. It was said here that the situation of the majority of the tenants had stabilized. Well, what country, my fellow Member? ! In the year of so - called families, we were not able to attend the eviction events for which we were invited to check the legality of the processes. There have never been so many evictions in Hungary, even in war years! So there's been quite an amazing situation. [[To László Böröcz:]] Don't grin, my fellow Member, it's not funny at all. The record volume of Hungarian families was evicted from their home. Is that funny? ! We invited you to these eviction events. Why didn't you come any time? Why didn't he even show up in his own constituency at an event like this? Don't smile at me.
u2018-11-28-6	Congressman, don't take this on a personal level. Thank you.
u2018-11-28-7	Thank you for your reprimand, Mr. President. I have also given respect to all fellow Members, the author, for a man of excellent professional skill. I stand by my opinion, and if there is such an insult in the Chamber as it is on the part of the Member, I will respond to it at any time, and I will deal with any consequences that may result. But to get back to the subject, and not to put too much pressure on the framework of the general debate, I must say that it is a mass plundering of people. Okay, I'm not judging your faceplay. I hope you'll be brave enough to press a button. But I have to say, when it is shown that the basic goal is to buy back real estate in one amount, we are talking about the fact that the Government of Hungary has realised that the asset management structure really costs money. They realized that there was a maintenance cost, so it would cost a lot of billions of forints a year to maintain this structure as a blessing, and sometimes very cynically presented as a rental program. But the Government of Hungary does not want to count on this cost in the future. So you want to get rid of the maintenance costs, you want to earn a lump sum of income from selling these properties, you lie about giving a discount to this, even though we are only talking about a few tens of thousands of forints of paid very printed rents, while the loan price is pushing hundreds of thousands or even millions of forints higher the price you can recover your own property. Fourthly, it intends to sell the properties that cannot be bought back or sold, so it wants to obtain one more one-off income, and only fifthly: it wants to regroup the amount of property that is not sufficient for anyone for the municipalities. So what costs is thrown out of the system, from which income can be made, typically creates a one-off income. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the latest chapter in the Orbán austerity package. Just as the government saved 70-72 billion forints with the state aid leg of housing savings, it is trying to get one-off revenues here and spread the cost ratio so that it will not have to spend on this in the coming years. And if all of this goes hand in hand, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, that the asset manager does not accept new customers, if it is the result of all this that people who have been in trouble who, if not as a solution, have looked at this construction as some sort of temporary breath, and this construction no longer accepts them, then what are we talking about? What kind of discount do you give? How do you help the victims? The problem is that, as regards the asset manager, we are constantly hearing about rejections and that the criminal commercial bank must have permission in this system in order for the Government of Hungary or Parliament to help these people. That's true at the moment. If the creditor Commercial Bank does not contribute to this, then the asset manager can't help you, and you all know it. Compared to this, they are not doing what would be the logical step to take the commercial bank's right of judgment out of this system, but in essence their behaviour suggests that this system will not receive any more customers, this system will not help any more Hungarians. However, if there were any sensible budget changes, it would be that we would actually support this scheme without a hat, and to whom it could help. I'm not saying it's a solution, but I'm saying it can be interpreted as a temporary breath, and for those who feel helped, let's make it available. On the other hand, you would now have your property bought back at an alleged preferential, practically loan shark exchange rate with the person with whom you could, instead of cleaning up these financial waste contracts, and the asset manager would probably not want to give masses at least a temporary opportunity to settle their lives. It was disappointing for me to face this year's eviction events with the cruelty that not only exists in you on this issue, but in the whole system, the failure of executive abuse, the failure of notary abuse, the way no one really wants to review this system. You wink at the people involved, you wink at the commercial banks, you keep petting them. Record revenues are recorded by these banks. And what do you do? They're taking out a credit institution's allowance. They will continue to reduce the banking sector special tax even if it is passed on. They're gonna stand by the transaction tax they're charging on the banks. Who pays the transaction fee, ladies and gentlemen? The commercial banks? Not a goddamn penny! The last penny will be passed on to the citizens, to the clients, and you will leave it to this day. The consumer protection under the Matolcsy MNB, in Frankenstein's way, will also leave all this, and will do nothing about it. You know very well that this banking system draws hundreds of billions of people from Hungary unduly every year. Why aren't you doing anything? Why are they trying to force the client situation towards recovery to justify this proposal? That's not true! There are hundreds of billions of HUF looting mechanisms on an annual basis. So my request is that you recognize this problem and do something about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Dániel Z. Carpathian explained his respect for the person he was referring to, but he did not bother to come in and listen to what he said in his exposé. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If you had been here at midnight, you wouldn't have come in either. But I listened to it outside.]] So that the government can tell us why you filed this bill, why you filed the motion. Then you could have listened to the arguments, listened to how the system would work, listened to what the bill contained. I'm afraid that didn't happen. The details have already been discussed by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member with Fidesz, but let us look at what has happened before the details, that we have come this far and that we are here. It is safe to say that the foreign exchange credit crisis is a shameful legacy of social liberal governments that I would like to state to everyone here, and that the country has not fully recovered to this day, which is also a fact. The foreign exchange loans in 2002 were a marginal part of the lending market, mentioned by my fellow Member in 2001, and housing loans were at a level of HUF 60 billion at the time. After 2002, the interest rate on HUF-based housing loans was abolished, and the high base rate, inflation, and let us add that the rhetoric of the socialist government led by Gyurcsány led households to lower interest rate foreign exchange loans. [[9.30]] Under the socialists, foreign currency loans have grown to a dangerous size for the entire country's economy, about a hundredfold. Then, as a result of the 2008 crisis, the weakening forint exchange rate drastically reduced the situation of the indebted households, and the banks started raising interest rates by unilateral treaty modifications. Socialist governments have reduced the subsidised housing loans, as I have said, the central bank's base rate has historically increased to 11.5 percent, so the HUF loans have become more expensive. We have seen an increase in the Swiss franc, the risk of which was entirely passed on by the banks to families, and it should not be overlooked that, in the time of the crisis, many people lost their jobs as a result of socialist economic policy. So the left-wing government not only lured the budget, but also Hungarian families into a debt trap, and did not deal with the problems that were already visible from 2008. By 2010, there were HUF 7000 billion of foreign currency loans in the population, with over 1 million foreign exchange credit contracts. Once again, in 2002, there were 60 billion HUF foreign currency loans in the population and 7,000 billion HUF in 2010. The Fidesz-KDNP government therefore had to take action in 2010 and therefore we prohibited foreign exchange-based mortgage lending, and, rather, we have taken a number of measures over the years. We have allowed preferential end-payments, which has resulted in a quarter decrease in the foreign exchange loan stock and the exchange rate fixation that has been used by more than 150,000 people. Furthermore, we have passed laws on the settlement of overpayments linked to unfair contractual clauses and have helped the process of transparent lending with new provisions. I could also mention the accountability of the banks. After that, it is important to recall this, because sometimes we forget that the currency of foreign currency debts has changed by law to HUF 200,000, and this has affected nearly 200 thousand families, and they have to pay their credit in the currency in which they receive their payment. The government helped 1 million families worth about 1200 billion forints. I would also like to highlight the national asset manager and the private bankruptcy process and the extension of the eviction moratorium. It should be mentioned that the amendment to the implementing law, which has been submitted and adopted in order to ensure, during the enforcement procedure, that the properties seized are sold at the highest possible price and that the outstanding claims are reimbursed as much as possible. In an enforcement procedure for the recovery of a claim based on a contract with the consumer on the basis of the amendment, in the case of the auctioning of residential property, a valid purchase offer must at least achieve the value of the property, as the applicant for enforcement can only take over the property for an amount corresponding to the value. We can see that what the left side has done wrong, we have fixed it. Not only has the situation of families improved, but the vulnerability of the economy has also improved substantially. The numbers are clear, there's a lot more people working, wages are growing, the economy is growing. The bill that is now before us also fits the above-mentioned line and is an important stage in the work that started in 2010. As a result of the positive changes in the economy, it is possible to provide additional assistance to the people involved in the National Asset Management Programme by providing them with the opportunity to create a home. The government and the governing parties aim to return their homes to the troubled people, which were previously taken from them by the banks. A basic objective is to ensure that as many tenants as possible make use of the possibility of a lump sum buy-back. The main means of this is that the State grants discounts on the purchase price in the course of the buy-back. My fellow Member, Jobbik, is watching a completely different film when he talks about loan shark interest and loan shark costs. The exact point is that, with interest-freeness, the inclusion of previous rents and an average 25% discount, which comes from the purchase price, the National Asset Manager helps to facilitate ownership. In addition, it is further facilitated that if the conclusion of a contract for the sale of lump sums fails for any reason, the State will also ensure the acquisition of ownership under the rules of the proposed tranche. So, if you don't have a lump sum with relatives, the family has the money you need to buy it at a discount, there are still other options. The rules of detail are contained in the law, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member have spoken about this. So with these details, I wouldn't be burdening this House's time. I think the proposal is important and forward-looking, and therefore the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Antal Csárdi asked for the floor in order of business. With all due respect, I'm gonna need you to give me a minute to make a suggestion and give me a minute to justify it. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-11	Mr President, My proposal would be to ensure an impartial sitting at Parliament's meetings. You have offended my fellow Member, Dániel Z., and you have called on him not to do the personal thing.
u2018-11-28-12	Congressman!
u2018-11-28-13	However, he did not do the same, Mr President, regarding the comments and personalities of Lőrinc Nacsa. It would be my request that we measure in equal measure. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Be calm, I'll measure with the same measure. All I asked was that I did not touch him, I did not warn him, but that I asked Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, whom I respect very much, please do not take the debate on its way to personalism. He accepted it, and from then on he was acting accordingly. Thank you. But do not try to resolve your comments in the form of a point of order. If you have a problem with the leadership of this meeting, there is an official way to do so, please turn to the Rules of Procedure Committee, namely the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much. I will ask for your understanding. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'd start with a personal thing. I would say to Congressman Nacsa that yesterday I too would have liked it if he had been here in Parliament and had done his job in the very important legislative amendment where about 4 million workers would be forced to slave. So when you judge opposition representatives that you are, say, five minutes late in the Chamber and we left the Chamber after midnight yesterday, you should look at yourself a little bit so that you can do your job or not do your job. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for not interrupting.
u2018-11-28-16	But I'm gonna stop you right there. [[Defiance.]] Because it's the president's duty. Of course, you have the right to give your opinion in the speech as a speaker, but this is not the bill that is being debated. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-17	Then I would like to continue by, believe me, my fellow Member, or believe me, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the KDNP, that spending half my night with Lajos Kósa was not a great experience. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Which half? -Development in the pro-government benches.]] And speaking of Lajos Kósa and the families, I have to mention to the families in the credit trap, so that we don't forget that when my fellow Member Nacsa talks about rhetoric, I have to mention Lajos Kósa again. It is thanks to him in 2010 that the Hungarian families were in very, very serious trouble, because with Péter Szijjártó, the forint was quite seriously beaten. It didn't take much, just a few sentences. This is thanks to Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó. Then, frankly, the Hungarian families have faced such a serious problem that some politicians can do so much damage to their unthinking sentences. And if my fellow Member would allow me, I would like to start with a very fresh piece of news, because it is very important: after the forint weakening of the last few days, the Hungarian currency has not yet been strengthened, and the exchange rate is at 324. In the meantime, the dollar has been stuck to a stronger level among the leading currencies against the euro. For this reason, we cost you pennies from falling to a new one and a half year low at 288 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, When Lajos Kósa spoke, we paid 265 for a euro. We will also cry back if we have to pay 300 HUF for a euro, because we find that the most important thing for the Fidesz-KDNP government is to maintain this exchange rate so that the forint is as weak as possible and pay as much as possible, say, for a euro or for a dollar. This is one of the most serious problems. It is true that it was said from the politicians of Fidesz that if the euro price goes above 300 forints and stays that way, the government should resign. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you wouldn't be ruling for eight years if you followed that sentence, your old sentences. When we look at families trapped in debt, how they should be classified, I would set up three categories. The first category, essentially Daniel Z. Carpathian, spoke of them, who are already in a hopeless situation, the evicted families. [[9.40]] In recent years, there have been tens of thousands of families who have no chance of having a normal life with their families because they have already lost everything. The second category is families that remain in a credit trap. My fellow Members, hold on, we are still talking about 750 thousand families, 750 thousand families. And don't start saying that's not true, because you're the ones who provide this data, and that's how many families are still officially struggling with debt problems. And the third category that we're talking about here is the amendment of the law, the asset manager's clients. This involves 36,000 real estate, 36,000 families we can talk about. If we look at the value of this property stock, because it is very important to talk about it, because then we may better understand what this amendment will be about, according to an economic survey 480-720 thousand We're talking about a billion forints. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What song is this?]] We didn't calculate, we're talking 480-720 billion forints, the property stock of families in debt, Congressman Nacsa. Yeah, I know you have a problem with numbers sometimes, because when we talk about the CSOK program, we've had an argument about whether the percentages are what we say or not. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Congressman Csárdi, personal involvement! Push the button.]] Mr. Congressman, press the button, and then, the President said he would get a word in, and then we'll be able to match each other up on who's right. When I read this amendment of the law, I can honestly say the same thing as Dániel Z. Carpathian, that something may have moved in you, and that you really should help the debtors, at least this narrow circle, this 36,000 families. All we have to do is look for details of the trap we've experienced for your part in the last eight years. How these families will be able to buy back these properties, even if they receive discounts, and have repeatedly mentioned, my fellow Member, that ownership will take place in Hungary... what ownership are you talking about? These belongings belonged to these families, and for some reason these families were unable to pay their loans, failed to pay them, and were caught in a grave trap. You're renaming your own property as ownership to get it back. Since then, we have known that in recent years, housing prices have increased to such an extent in relation to their housing policy, we can count on a 50 percent increase in real estate prices, 100 percent, but there are settlements where the 120 percent increase in property prices has also occurred. Then I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State what's the price they'll be able to get their properties back? At a price when it was built, acquired, or valued at a price that is now, or in the condition of 1 January 2019, when this law will come into force? Which will be treated as a guide price, Mr. Secretary? Because it's very important, it doesn't matter, because then the acquisition of property will happen at a much higher price than when the apartment was acquired by these troubled families. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, because there are reports that 72 percent of these families have been able to pay their rent regularly, while 30 percent have always been late, and this number indicates that the problem of these families has not been solved in essence, and that they have fallen into the same trap from month to month. The 30 percent of the 36,000 were constantly struggling with backlogs, and it is not true that they have been able to solve their problems over the past few years, and they can essentially buy their property back at a snap of their fingers. My other question, Mr Secretary of State, is that I understand the initiative that close relatives can throw together and buy back the right to this property. I'm just asking, Mr. Secretary, do we really live in the same country? Is that really what we're trying to do, to get everyone to run to mommy, dad, cousin, everybody, and throw what we have together, everybody, and then this is really how we're gonna solve this problem? I don't think so. Think about it. I don't think that's the answer. We will make amendments, and I hope, Mr Secretary of State, if you have said in your keynote speaker that we are considering helping these 36,000 families, then at least once you will show us so much cooperation that if we actually submit an amendment that would lead them in a positive direction, then you will support it. My other question, Mr. Secretary, is that if you can't sell these properties, the families in distress can't buy it back, even if all the relatives put together all your assets, even though we know that Matolcsy says that every citizen has a savings of HUF 10 million. If we listened to him, then maybe we wouldn't have such a problem, but we would open up the dresser quickly, take out the money, but it is clear that if there are still 750,000 families in a serious credit crisis, then what György Matolcsy says is not true. The other is that they would provide these properties to workers in the health sector so that they could rent them and buy them. It's called exploitation as a service dwelling. Mr. Secretary, I was wondering if I could move into an apartment that, say, was taken from another family with the help of the banks, the state, with the help of the executives, the police, the judicial organizations, to see if I could move into such a property. I realized I had to say no. I couldn't move in. It is true that one of the biggest problems in Hungary in the details of the housing crisis is that about 550 thousand properties are still vacant in Hungary. 500,000 real estate! But I'm still saying that somewhere with my values, it doesn't fit. Although I might add, I also wondered how much space the housing mafia would be given to, say, access to these properties. [[Nacsa Lawrence will spread his arms.]] Mr. Congressman, you're making gestures again, so don't pretend we're raising non-existent problems in Hungary. [[Nacha Lawrence shakes his head.]] As if this would not happen, and how, let us say, how much help you will give to this, so that this can happen in Hungary. If we look at the data, we see that they are also given the opportunity to own these properties by local authorities. In recent years, only one municipality has not owned the property reserved by the asset manager, although I am aware of municipalities that have tried to take steps to ask for help in this, so that not the housing mafia, not the evictions are carried out in Hungary, but rather the local government can buy it from the asset manager. I hope that this amendment is due to this fact that they have finally realized that it is much better for the municipality to buy it and perhaps it can ensure that it will not fall into the hands of strangers, but that it will be owned by it, or that it will be able to rent it back from the municipality again as a tenant. I think this is a positive step, but maybe we should have adopted the amendment that attempted to do this years ago to solve these problems or these abuses. I would very much like to ask Mr Secretary of State to talk a little more about the details that have not been really opened, so that we can say calmly that there will be no trap in this and that we really only want to help the people who have been hurt by credit. The other question I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State is that, in many cases, debtors have almost fully paid the price of their apartments, or there are cases where multiples have been repaid and still have serious debts. A large sum has already been paid in advance. Now they're paying the state again for the same property, one more time. [[9.50]] It's okay. Mr. Secretary? They may get a discount, they'll let go of the rent they've paid so far, they'll give you a 20% discount, but they'll have to pay you again, Mr. Secretary, for the second time, for the third time. I don't think that's okay. We need to find solutions so that people don't feel like they want to pull a skin off them again, but that the government finally wants to solve that serious credit trap, the serious credit problem and the housing crisis that he's in. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-19	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I am particularly grateful that it seems that opposition representatives can also speak in Parliament this morning. Dear House, As far as the bill is concerned, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, I can briefly say that, as with your other measures regarding foreign exchange creditors, this bill is characterised by too little too late. It is not a step in the wrong direction in itself, we do not refuse that if there is a family who has a source, then he can buy his apartment from the asset manager or get his apartment back from the asset manager, but at the same time we also have doubts about the conditions. However, let me say very briefly what you have just said very vividly, Mrs President: do not pretend that you have nothing to do with this. It is true that by 2010, after the successful crisis management, the forint exchange rate began to increase, and it was Lajos Kósa, a great friend of the working class, who broke down the forint, together with Péter Szijjártó, and then the least independent central bank president from you who kept the forint permanently weak. Why do you keep it weak? Because the economic growth that you are so happy to boast about, I add it at the inflow of EU funds: and in addition to the significant theft of it comes from the fact that you are seeking the favor of the large western corporations, the multinationals producing exports. They keep the forint low because otherwise the country would not be competitive, because there is no working education, because they eviscerate the workforce, because they destroy the workers, and you simply try to keep the economy competitive by keeping the forint weak, pushing down the forint's exchange rate by artificial means. You are the ones whose economic policy has been defining for nine years why currency lenders are going bankrupt. This is the fundamental reason why foreign exchange lenders cannot pay their debts: the economic policy which is not based on organic competitiveness, but simply manipulates with the exchange rate. That is why you do not want the euro either, because it would turn out that the Hungarian economy is not competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, And from this starting point, I have to say that this is very little, because, of course, there are some people who are helped by the asset manager, but we remember that when there was a big problem, the asset manager was not able to buy up the right amount of apartments, and now the asset manager is still not helping in a series of situations for the people living in the apartment. There are hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials, tens of thousands of people waiting for eviction, and from here you would like to set this measure so that, now you have everything solved, that is a minimum rate loss. By the way, it is similar to your previous measures: the richer you are, the higher your income, the more you have been helped to pay your foreign currency loan, and the poorer you are, the more vulnerable you are, the less you can count on your support. Finally, I must also say that this measure does not solve a fundamental problem. When this measure came in, you guys were telling me something about how this is going to solve the social housing system and then create a social housing system. Obviously, the asset manager was never suitable for this, so this idea was bad, but there are still no social housing, because, on the one hand, while a series of families, hundreds of thousands of families are still threatened by their foreign exchange loans, and this measure does not help them, and on the other hand, young people don't have a chance if they don't happen to have such a lucky dad who can put three or four apartments on their name when they're kids to get an apartment. Apartment rental prices have run out of control, housing prices have run out of control, and this measure does not help in any way, of course. To sum up, this bill deals only with a very small section of the housing crisis which is otherwise very serious, which threatens social stability, a slight improvement of your previously bad concept, but it doesn't really solve anything. Otherwise, we will support this proposal on the basis of the willingness of the Government and the Government side to accept fairer conditions in this matter in the course of the amendments. But once again, while this is not necessarily a bad step, at least in its basic intention, it does not solve anything at the same time. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-21	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I think we really need to look at the proportions first. Currently there are 36,000 real estate properties at the asset manager, and yesterday's data, I received the answer from the Hungarian National Bank yesterday, where the Magyar Nemzeti Bank says that 686 thousand foreign currency credit contracts have been HUFed. The question of the number of contracts terminated until the forinting, the value of these contracts, the Hungarian National Bank could not provide an answer. In this connection, I think it is very important to talk about the fact that there are about one million foreign currency credit contracts, 170 thousand of which were settled at the rate of HUF 180, and from now on you are talking about 36 thousand of the remaining foreign currency loan debtors. I wanted to say this only for the sake of the proportions at the beginning, because, at first reading, this proposal would have shown a sympathetic direction, but I would start backwards from the way my fellow Members before me started, because I think the most important part of this proposal is that the asset manager does not want to continue the work that is a very minimal help, but has provided the debtors in distress. And it is completely blood-cooking that the reason is that there are currently 36,000 real estate properties in the asset manager, and it is not intended for the State to own additional real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This isn't a property management proposal. We are talking here about the masses of people who are disabled in a foreign currency credit crisis, to whom assistance must be provided. And I would like to argue here with my fellow opposition Members. Believe me, fellow Members, today a family trapped in a currency trap does not care in the least which government is responsible for which party. They're interested in one thing, and the only thing they're interested in is getting help with a problem that they're otherwise responsible for, I'm willing to say is that it's negligible if there is. I see that Mr Secretary of State is reluctant to accept my sentences, so I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State and the House that on 20 September this year the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice C-51/17. He made a decision where he clearly stated and described it, and I will now quote: the Court states that the financial institutions must provide the borrowers with sufficient information to enable them to make an informed and informed decision, so that this information should not only cover the possibility of the currency of the loan being valued or devalued, Mr Secretary of State, but also the effects that the volatility of the currency of the loan and the increase in the interest rate of that currency may have on the instalments. [[10.00]] Dear Secretary of State, Dear Laughing Mr. Nacha, This isn't a cabaret scene. We're talking about the tragedies of families here. We're talking about a mass of suicides here. We're talking about dead ends in human lives while you're laughing. That's extremely sad, as a Christian man, I'm sorry. What I think I need to talk about is that this proposal, although it could be good in its direction, is certainly not going to solve anything. The Possibly Other Politics has developed a debt-saving package, which we will be submitting this year, and what is not only the cancelled one, is in trouble, but can give every cheated foreign exchange loan contractor a new settlement if he votes in favour of this House. Because let's face it, the solution doesn't have to be found in tiny segregations. Once I save the rich who have savings at a discount rate of HUF 180. Then I will save you and in this context, I would like to quote the 36,000 property owners who have been struggling and struggling over the past ten years, and finally, through tragedies, their property has been transferred to the asset manager. We are convinced that all foreign exchange credit contracts must be recalculated in the spirit of social justice. It is necessary to count again, and at a rate that is the same as the rate of end-payment, because social justice, equality before the law, requires that there is no solution for Members, better-mode people to withdraw from their contracts at HUF 180, and a few years later forints on other contractors' contracts at HUF 256. This is an unacceptable constitutional and social injustice. I think that this court ruling gives the legislator the perfect authority to recreate this question, to re-start the way in which the legislation is to bring justice to every individual Hungarian citizen who has been tricked by the banks. Because let's face it, who has seen, as far as possible, more than one foreign currency credit contract, knows precisely that there is no foreign currency credit contract in this country that complies with the conditions of the European Court of Justice cited. We know exactly that the debtors, when they concluded their contract, did not receive this type of detailed information. I would like to say quietly that I need to talk here about a package of proposals for the debtor chamber. [[His phone's ringing.]] My apologies, which summarized the claims of the debtors in 12 points. But let me tell you, my fellow pro-government Members also know what a debt chamber is. The Chamber of Debtors is a national cooperation that brings together lawyers, civil advocates and bank victims and has formulated their proposal in a justified manner from personal experience, personal expertise and through this work. Here I would like to highlight only one point in 12, point 7, which says: broaden access to the asset manager for those in need and take away the veto rights of banks. Ladies and gentlemen, This is all that is needed from this proposal to open the gate even further, so that those in need can have access to the asset management service, and what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already said that the veto rights of banks, which has neither legal nor moral place in the operation of the asset manager, should be abolished. I think that, although this proposal may be a solution for some people, as long as it is clear and clear that it is not the solution, but the aim is to withdraw from the problem, we are on the wrong track, my fellow Members. I think that it is possible to present a good proposal that will help families in asset management, which, in addition to helping this layer, will bring justice to the one million families who have not yet received fair, just assistance from government and state, and I would like to repeat that they believe, fellow Members, that debtors do not care how they play it among themselves, that they are a left-liberal-right-wing government. Nobody cares! The one thing that's interesting about this is that this House, the legislature, will solve this situation in accordance with its oath. And then, in order to quote my fellow Member Nacsa, play a game among yourselves. It's none of my business, and it's none of your business. However, debtors rightly expect that, in a situation where there is an extremely high level of interest between the debtor and the bank, the State must play a role in this, yes, fellow Members. I think that at this point we will also reach a border point, because the already mentioned EBRD Treaty, where the Hungarian Government has undertaken not to make a decision that would jeopardise the profitability of the banking system, will and must decide whether the majority of the Hungarian Parliament is on the side of banks or debtors. This is not an opinionary situation, because the European Court of Justice has described a clear, tangible and understandable set of criteria in its judicial judgment, which is clearly known to have not been implemented in Hungary. So I think that we will draft the amendments in the light of this, and this year, the LMP will present the foreign exchange tax rescue package that will provide justice, which will carry the conditions of social justice, because you have often said in the context of forinting and final repayment that you have done the work, but you have forgotten that in the meantime you have not examined the legality, fairness of the operation of the banks and the lending, and have not examined whether their decisions involve the legitimate need for social justice. I can therefore conclude by saying that, in the hope that the solution to the problems of foreign exchange lenders will start in a direction that will provide a real solution, we will submit amendments to it, because this way it will certainly not be eligible. On the other hand, I am going to ask the pro-government representatives now that if the proposal that LMP has drawn up for the resolution of the foreign exchange credit crisis comes before the House, they should also support the governing party. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[10.10]]
u2018-11-28-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me give an exceptional compliment to the governing party, because it seems that they really want to help a few thousand difficult families, and that is very commendable. So the proposal before this House is indeed forward-looking and will make life easier for a few tens of thousands of people, but the fact is that regardless of this, the housing crisis in Hungary is deepening, because the Fidesz government has no housing policy. You have a policy of ownership, and you obviously understand this primarily for yourselves, but if, let's say, you should name wider social groups, the goal is to support the elite and the upper middle class, to obtain the most valuable housing, and to that end, to implement the support system that accordingly favours the wealthy, and to leave those who most need help on the side of the road. Today, one and a half million people in Hungary live in flats with severe housing quality problems, leaking, wet, moldy, drafty, comfortless and so on, or simply overcrowded, and one or two square meters per tenant. So a million and a half Hungarians live in amazing third world conditions, their problems the Fidesz government has not proposed in the last eight years. About 80 percent and four fifths of the 4,4 million residential properties in Hungary do not meet the modern energy requirements, so if you want the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, as you like to say, to live in the right apartments, and it is not important here that they own the apartment, but that it is suitable for the purpose they are intended for, is in the right place, because they also have very big problems with housing, they can maintain the right quality and size of the apartment for themselves, and they could focus on it a little bit, then I think that Hungarian voters could be more satisfied. Today, one in three households suffers from housing-related affordability problems, so they spend an unrealistic amount of money on rent, rent, or mortgage payments compared to their income. What you have salted away in the 2014 campaign, let alone not helped, but by now it is clear that it has damaged the income and wealth of Hungarian households, we will simply pay more for the rent than if this famous reduction was not. What is needed is a single-band resistarif system, which helps households with low consumption and typically low incomes. The MSZP-Palogue proposed this in its election program, and we didn't really see that there was any reception skills, we couldn't see the big open ears on the part of the government. The basic problem is really whether there are even apartments where people can be safe. The thing is, since 2010 we've known about 50,000 evicted families, at least that's the number of people who lost their apartments under your government when they allegedly handled it, they've solved the words of the Fidesz people, the foreign exchange loan problem. Compared to this, all credit victims and the opposition are equally demanding that the profits recorded by the Hungarian National Bank during the forinting should not be played out by György Matolcsy to his buddies' foundations, but that they should be used for the purposes associated with the realization of this profit, namely to improve the situation of foreign exchange-credited families and households. In the same way, as you properly started taxing the banks in Hungary, this momentum quickly ran out, and every year the rate of the bank tax is decreasing: last year, the Hungarian banking sector was able to realise a record profit of HUF 700 billion. The Dialogue suggests that we put the rate of bank tax back on the previous levels, which also means that hundreds of billions of forints a year can be included as a source to alleviate the housing crisis of Hungarian families. The asset manager should not be stopped either, even if it is not included in this proposal, because with an ordinary government decree, exactly eight days ago, you were able to virtually terminate the operation of the asset manager. Let's add that it has worked on the basis of a very bad concept, since it was not primarily used to save families in distress, but to save banks in distress, it was designed to buy less marketable properties that banks would not otherwise be able to sell forcedly, so they should have described it as a loss. Now, these are the banks that were rescued by the asset manager. So what the Tax Chamber demands is absolutely legitimate, every Hungarian family in a debt trap should have the right to assume the responsibility of the banks, who cannot and do not want to meet the expectations of a society with humane principles. 13 percent of households have a backlog over 60 days, 750,000 implementation cases are under way in terms of 7 per cent of annual GDP, so there is still a very serious debt crisis, and in this situation, the asset manager should not be stopped, but its resources should be expanded with resources from the aforementioned national bank or bank tax. This could create a hundreds of billion-dollar housing fund that could embed a national rental program, which is exactly what Hungary needs. Since the change of regime, virtually all governments have pursued a short-sighted and long-term housing policy with clearly damaging social impacts. The Dialogue calls for a radical turnaround. It must be incorporated into the Constitution, until there is a constitution, without a better lack of the right to housing in the Fundamental Law, we have proposed this on several occasions, and this right to housing must be enforced. The evictions without accommodation must be stopped. If not elsewhere, every Hungarian family must have the right to live in an accessible apartment owned by this public administration, which can be used as part of the national rental scheme. There is a need to reduce or even temporarily take over the costs of the overhead; the person who is turned off from the service will be returned to the account of the service companies with subscriber hours. So what we need is a housing policy, a housing policy that really looks at the interests of the people, and not that the upper middle class and elite can obtain the most valuable housing property, the more expensive real estate investments with state support, and the goal that Fidesz pursues as a top priority is not to allow Hungarian banks to work with the greatest possible profit rate. So we can welcome this bill with some amendments from the Dialogue, but I very much hope that this is just a step towards a new, just and people-centred housing policy that finally supports those who really need it and who really deserve it. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speaker's speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-25	Mr President, Dear House, As I see some chance in the light of what has been said, I am asking the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP to express themselves as to what those who have applied to the asset manager can expect in the future, what those who, in the light of the government decision eight days ago, cannot count on the evaluation of their application, or what happens to those who have this door closed, because it is visible that if we cannot look at the asset manager as a permanent solution, it meant at least breathtaking for tens of thousands of people. The question therefore arises as to why the Government of Hungary would take away this chance of air from the citizens concerned. I very much hope that we will still find answers to all of this, not just within the framework of a closing term. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there will be regular speeches, regular speeches. Member Lajos Korózs asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[10.20]]
u2018-11-28-27	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There has really been a lot of talk, and I do not intend to waste time repeating what my fellow Members have said, but I would like to advance one thing for a few sentences on how we have come to this situation. After the 2010 elections, the government had to take measures, because it was clearly perceived that a very serious housing crisis was starting to take place in the country, and there were attempts by the government, and I do not dispute this, but time has shown that all of them have failed. Among other things, the program of Occasia. You will remember, my fellow Members, where they wanted to build hundreds of apartments where the fallen foreign exchange credentials would have been placed. Thanks to God, only 80 of the hundreds were built, because it was obvious that, on the one hand, it was necessary to build the fixed infrastructure for some reason, of course, because it was not in Ocsa, but out in the wilderness, and to a square meter it had to compete with the real estate prices of the Rosomb when this construction began. That's one thing. The second was that the original tender was meant to be open to the successful foreign exchange lenders. And then it turns out that the Feds don't want to move into this property, they don't want to move to Ocsa. In the end, he could apply for it happy-happy, and they could barely fill up those 80 apartments, because there was no other service on this site. The other, to which I would like to draw attention, was an attempt by the government that was the institution of self-destruction. Here, in the parliamentary debate, I myself said that in the form that the government had submitted, there was a draft before it, which was significantly better than the institution that was declared by the law to be adopted, it was only bad for three parties. It was not good for the clients, it was not good for the creditors, and it was not good for the municipalities, because it was accepted in a three-part construction. It was impossible to expect him to stop, as far as I know, the hundred families who wanted to live with the use of this institution. The other measure was the forinting or the end-payment. We can make the final repayment quickly, because all that happened was the relatively better way, often fidesz Members of Parliament were able to pay the outstanding sums that the banks had presented to them and thank them very much, so it was good for everyone. But in fact, the people who went to the asset manager couldn't do anything to help these first three measures I've just told you. There were other government measures here that didn't seem to belong here, but they were made on conveyor belts, so I'll put that word in quotes, of course, for those clients who needed government help. There were also measures in the context of social law that accelerated these processes. I would just like to remind my fellow Members that it was you who abolished housing aid several years ago, abolished debt management services, abolished regular social assistance, abolished public health care and fair treatment fees. These measures have greatly helped to bring so many people into trouble. Of course, I put the help in a subpoena here as well. The other question is that I understand that nearly 36,000 people came to the National Asset Manager and could remain in his original property as tenants, but you do know, Mr. Secretary, that a significant part of those who stayed in their own properties could not pay their repayments, those reduced repayments, because they were in a labour market situation or were in a position of income that, regardless of whether they stayed in their own property as tenants, they had the same problems as before, or at least a very large part of them had the same problems. This proposal, if there's a good element, is a mentoring program. It has not been explained in detail either by the lead speaker or by the secretary of state, but I think it will be one of the good deeds if this is done. Although the devil is in the details, and I will be curious about the enforcement regulations or enforcement instructions that appear next to the law, because it will be decided that it is actually a help, or they simply want to take out this opportunity, the current economic and legal opportunity. How much help is it that interest doesn't have to be paid? Yeah, of course. They paid for it once! Most people have already paid twice as much as they have taken out as loans. Everyone knows that property prices have doubled on average since 2010, but there are settlements such as Eger or Sopron, Győr and Kecskemét, where property prices have increased to 120-130 percent over the last eight years, and at the same time, if we look at incomes, 25-26 percent will stop net wage growth in the last eight years. So what we're talking about here is that real estate prices and real estate prices follow-up, because the housing sociologists say that every time real estate prices move, in a few months, in six months, rents track the increase in real estate prices, and if wages have only increased by 25-26 percent over the last eight years, and real estate prices have doubled, then it's obvious that there's still more tensions to be expected here. Well, it's commendable that they're counting the repayments so far, of course they're counting them down. I stress that most people have already paid almost twice as much as they had taken on as loans. It is also a question that if this door is closed here, and the National Asset Manager will no longer regress, and about 100 to 110 thousand people are affected by the help they have been able to solve, I hope to resolve the 36,000 clients that have been accepted, then what will happen to the people that Bence Tordai has just talked about. About 750,000 implementations are underway. Of course, this does not mean that everyone automatically has real estate problems in connection with the implementation, and it does not even mean that everyone is becoming homeless and losing their home, but it is 750 thousand clients, and I think that my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, has also said something like this in connection with the data requested from the National Bank. Summa summarum, we will be partners in the possibility of making this proposal better by means of amendments, and if the Secretary of State gives us substantive answers to the problems raised, we will consider this support, but only by submitting it and not having a meaningful answer to the problems raised and not adopting amendments, we will very much regret the situation, and we will very much regret the people who will not be included in such a construction, and the state will not provide them with any support. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-28-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa to take his place, because he has applied for a repeated speech, and I can only speak there. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-29	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for your patience. As far as professional speeches are concerned, I am trying to stay in this framework and to talk about the numbers that have been said and, more particularly, those that have not. What we see is that it has been possible to buy back real estate within the asset management structure, here we can talk about a five to six-year window period, and we have seen that in six years about a thousand people have been in a situation of life with 36,000 families currently in construction, that this buy-back could have been considered at all, or that it could have been put on the road to implementation. So what we see is that the rate of recovery is very low, and perhaps achieving the original status is converging towards zero, because the original life situation that occurred before the loss of the property and the emergence of loan loan was actually unrecoverable. However, we also see that, fortunately and here in the tone of praise, the rents paid for the previous construction were very low, very depressed. [[10.30]] That is why I say that when they now try to show as a discount the remission of very printed rents, it is worth considering the amounts involved. We are talking about 10-20 thousand forints here, and if we look at the contracts in the asset manager's construction, the situation of families, we see that we are talking about a discount of around 200,000, which reduces the purchase price. And even if we look at a larger standard deviation, it goes to a maximum of HUF 400,000, and we have to take into account that the Government of Hungary is waving an interest discount here. In view of market conditions and all factors, we are talking typically about a level of interest of around 1 per cent or less of 1 per cent; so a small amount of a few thousand, a few thousand forints, which, in the light of the fact that the average foreign exchange credit damage has been damaged by millions of people in their credit-damaging career, which may have been recognised several times by my fellow members of the government, it is acknowledged, so it seems a few tens of thousands of forints' discount against the multimillions' damage. It was said several times that the data subject had paid for his property once at the time, when he had a part of himself, he took out a loan, and fortunately, he had some sort of cover behind his back, didn't he, typically, the property was covered, he had already paid for this property once, and now, when he was bought back, more precisely: he would be left open, he would have to pay once more. We also see that these 10-15 thousand HUF rentals are on one side. So, as a serious discount, I don't think it's possible, it's not appropriate, it's not appropriate. On the other side, however, massive maintenance costs... so I understand, and I see that the budget has a substantial and profound burden on the maintenance of asset management apartments, the maintenance work must also be carried out in cases where, let's say, such a property remains empty. But we also need to see that the closure and termination of this complete construction is a little similar to the way the government acted on the LTP. There is no doubt that there have been some, even in this Chamber, who have abused, by the way, the possibilities and benefits of a system that was not sufficiently defined. I don't like it, either, when a wealthy person enters into a 10-12-15 housing savings contract for state aid, say, in the name of every relative and family member in existence. These are undoubtedly problems to be dealt with, but the way to treat them is not to remove the leg of state support for full housing savings. Here, too, I feel that the government is pushing for a lump sum of revenue, on the one hand, with the sale or auction of the real estate concerned, does it not intend to give this to the management of municipalities, and I feel that it is trying to avoid maintenance costs by eliminating the whole construction instead. So we are still waiting for an answer as to what can be expected by a person who was still counting on the asset manager or who had already applied for it. And we also need to see that on the front of housing, the government is sending messages that are contrary to its own image, vision, to civil Hungary all year round, and it is crying out for an explanation why Fidesz is eroding its own sympathy camp, its own electoral camp with such great vehemencia. My scenario and my position is that we are part of a comprehensive austerity package, which seeks to drill and carve the affected side of the budget per item of 60-70 billion. So he tries to spend as little as possible on investments for the future that are essential in a self-respecting country, and in the case of a national economy so deeply affected by emigration, they are almost vital. What we see is that when the cafeteria is narrowed down, the foot that promotes housing mobility is removed by the government and it shifts it towards the business spheres of its own interest. The state aid for housing savings is being reduced, it does not manage the prices on the rent market and the situation caused by a clear market supply shortage and the possibility of intervention would be at the disposal of the government. Fourthly, already in the case of looted foreign exchange loans, it brings restrictions that make one or two of the good elements of the already bad treatment controversial or even eliminated, as in the present case. This is clearly a proposal against the citizens, against the middle class that is otherwise worthy of Hungarian strengthening, a proposal that weakens these social groups. I understand that in terms of the CSOK, they are seeking to favour upper middle classes, so they are more fortunate groups. This, unfortunately, is not a counter-inspiration, not even a demographic turnaround, but it would take a lot of time to turn around anyway, but at least stopping and slowing down bad trends could now be a realistic target, unfortunately this has succeeded with regard to one indicator, not with all others. So the fertility rate has been raised in a fortunate way, but the government ignores two factors, namely the rapid decline in the women's base of parental age, so despite the increase in fertility rates, the living birth rate has deteriorated again, it has decreased again, and this is a catastrophic process that could be slowed down by the way, and the turn can be achieved with a comprehensive housing programme. After all, wage planning, financial security, the system of family tax incentives are only one leg of the story, second place there is uncertainty about housing, poverty, lack of prospects, and typically younger age groups face the fact that, yes, they can figure out how long it takes to save money for a self-owned home in Hungary, but also to get an independent apartment, housing, and solve it. This could also be a form of leasing, so our goal is to pull the government out of the false dimension that it is trying to make itself believe that the Hungarian people have very, very close access to their own property, and this is some kind of social mentality. Of course, we all prefer to live in our own apartments, houses, or apartments, as the case may be, which is the most natural thing in the world, and I believe that it is the case for every normal nation, but at the same time it should be possible for those who are unable to draw up even a part of the credenza, even to take credit for a self-owned apartment, so that they can normally live in rentals and start their own lives. The message from this demographic background would clearly be positive, and the damaging process of the Orbán government facing precisely its own vision would be eliminated, destroying precisely the Hungary that it wants to build itself to a rapid extent, and I believe that it is now visible to its own sympathizers. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Mihály Witzmann, from the Fidesz Group, also spoke again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There was some polarity here in connection with the National Asset Management programme in relation to when the foreign currency credit crisis started in Hungary. If you'll allow me, I'd like to tell you how I remember this, how I see this process. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2002, the Fidesz government was followed by socialist governments, and in 2002 in Hungary the issue of lending was available in the form of state-supported, HUF-based interest-supported loans in terms of housing loans only or in the vast majority of cases. This was forced by the government in 1998-2002 for the safety of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian families. Then, in 2002, a change of government came, and the socialists who used to scold him wore this state-supported forint loan scheme, there were a lot of people, and their number one leaders, who quickly picked up these credit schemes, quickly took advantage of this opportunity. After that, the system of this state-supported forint loan facility was virtually abolished in Hungary and the total social and economic problem that we call a foreign currency loan problem was unleashed, and then a foreign currency credit crisis arose in Hungary. When Fidesz was in opposition in the years after 2002, 2002-2010, I remember well those opposition speeches from the Fidesz-KDNP ranks, and perhaps even the Physical Education College, there was a large assembly where Prime Minister, as opposition leader, said that this foreign exchange structure should be done, because the whole system will break down, collapse, and cause insurmountable negative consequences for the country, society, Hungarian families, homeowners and credible people alike. As the lead speaker of the KDNP, I think that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, confirmed this with numbers, because in 2002... so who is responsible or where to look for the root of the foreign exchange credit problem, these two figures show very well. In 2002 the total foreign currency loan portfolio in Hungary was HUF 60 billion, and in 2010 it increased to HUF 7000 billion. Between 2002 and 2010, if I'm wrong, Fidesz-KDNP was not a former government in Hungary. So I think this is more than 116 times the multiplier, so during the eight-year governance of the socialists, foreign exchange credit exposure has increased more than 116 times, and thus the vulnerability of society and the economy in Hungary. [[10.40]] And if you'll allow me a personal example: in 2008, I made a brave decision, and my wife and I decided that we wanted to build a house, yet everyone wants a house of their own, as we heard before. We were very happy when, in 2008, we were able to take on a Swiss franc free-use loan for this purpose for a small amount. The exchange rate of the Swiss franc was 136 HUF, when we started negotiating with the bank, and by the time we signed the contract in front of the notary and took out the loan, it had increased to 154 HUF. Then everyone pats us on the back in the bank account and said that it was a very good decision, because then the exchange rate will correct from 154 to 136 again, and how well we will benefit, and from the 40-45 thousand HUF monthly repayment it will be half or two thirds. On the other hand, we found that we were still under the blessing of the socialists in time that from 2008 the forint exchange rate had jumped, and we experienced a Swiss franc exchange rate of over 300 forints in days, within weeks, and the monthly repayment of 40-45 thousand forints became 80 to 100 thousand forints. I guess I wasn't alone in this merely as a Hungarian man trying to help himself and try to move forward with his family and do something for development. I think, obviously, responsibility can be divided into three parts for these foreign exchange credit schemes. Obviously, I was responsible, too, for signing the loan agreement, but at least as responsible was the government at the time, who allowed these arrangements, and the banks were also responsible, who offered only these arrangements for their own greed and profit. If it weren't for the possibility of end-payment, which the Fidesz government has already introduced as an facilitation, then I think a lot of people with family help would still be dealing with this problem, as many of us are still struggling today. However, for the sake of numericality, I have compiled some foreign exchange loan rescue aid from the Fidesz government that the Fidesz-KDNP government owes to the Fidesz-KDNP government in recent years. They were able to make use of the end-payment in 170,000 cases. The National Tool Manager, which I spoke about in my speech as a speaker, made it possible to buy approximately 36,000 properties, which helped 154 thousand people. Looking at the price barrier, it provided significant help to about 172 thousand people, and the private failure facility was a solution for 2700 - 3000 people. If we add these together, it can be seen that we are talking about more than 500 000 items in total, and we have not talked about forinting or counting banks. And what do these government measures to help foreign exchange legitimists have in common, my fellow Members? The fact that the opposition didn't support any of them. So while we are talking here about helping foreign exchange legitimists, there would have been plenty of opportunities and ways for my fellow Members in opposition benches to even partially support any of them with their votes. Since 2010, payments have decreased by about 25-30 percent, and the burden of Hungarian families has indeed been reduced by more than HUF 1000 billion. What I have noted to myself here is that some of the opposition contributions mentioned that there will be no more real estate purchases from the International Asset Manager. No one said that. In particular, I would like to read out how I have been expressed in my speech as a lead speaker in this regard:. On the basis of the Government's decision, the National Asset Manager is expected to buy some 2,000 real estates in order to help persons who have indicated their intention to participate in the programme to financial institutions or to the National Asset Manager until the proposal is submitted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And that is just a picantria of the fact that my colleague Gergely Arató, on the part of DK, adopted the years after 2008, following a successful crisis management. I think that this crisis management, which my fellow Member has called so successful, we all remember that it took the form of a large IMF and EU loan on extremely unfavourable terms. If we can call this a success, then we are very far from the truth. But I think that we should ask the Hungarian people about this successful crisis management, why the direct consequence of this was that the former socialist governments were expelled from the possibility of governance in April 2010. I am, of course, very pleased that, among the opposition speeches, my fellow Member Bence Tordai has given us such positive statements that he sees the good intentions in this initiative, or that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, has also mentioned that the mentor programme is indeed a good programme for this presentation. To sum up, I believe that we are going through a useful debate and I continue to ask my fellow Members in Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Volner applied for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important for everyone in Hungary to understand that the foreign exchange-credit problem has affected not only foreign exchange-credit families, but everyone who lives in this country. For if roughly three and a half million people, together with family members, were affected by this problem in some type of credit, if these people carried all their so-called discretionary income to the banks, the income ratio that is above their living costs in a close sense, then Hungary would fall away from the surrounding countries to such an extent as to reduce its growth potential to such an extent that it could be an irretrievable disadvantage. It is important to see that the income of families who are trapped in a credit trap, above the cost of living in a close sense, has not been in the economy for many years, it has not been the economy, but it has been in the pockets of the banks in the first place, and it is also important to clarify how this could have happened. First of all, we need to state what most Hungarians do not know; those who were not foreign exchange-credited are typically unaware of this. In Hungary, not only the exchange rate risk was committed by foreign exchange-credit families, which was almost exclusively the news, but also the interest rate risk, there was a significant increase in the burden on the interest side. At a time when we talk about the Swiss franc rising to 250 HUF from Swiss francs around 145 HUF, we are not just talking about the fact that the Orbán government had a historic opportunity that it missed. If this question had been settled in 2010, loans could have been converted into HUF at a much lower rate. The government didn't believe us. Many times in this House, in this Chamber, we have told the representatives of the government that this issue should be resolved, because the Swiss franc will become an international reserve currency after the 2008 financial crisis. This was the case, his exchange rate was gone, it was a pre-envelopable process, and with the type of credit that was intended to finance the long-term mortgages of the population, the foreign exchange loan, thus placing on the market a defective product that should not have been introduced here, and putting on the shoulders of the population a risk that he was practically unable to bear. I note that when we are talking about the people to be saved and the operation of the asset manager, if you ask how many people were properly informed, under the credit institution law at the time, about the types of risks that he would have to bear with this loan, there was hardly any person, almost no one, who could have been at all aware that he was carrying interest risk with this loan, not just the exchange rate risk. What am I talking about, fellow Members? When the Swiss franc exchange rate, the Swiss central bank base rate, was around 3 per cent, then the foreign exchange taxers paid 9-10 per cent of the loan rate in Hungary. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank had previously issued reports comparing loans in Poland denominated in Swiss francs at the same time with loans in Hungary, and a significant interest rate difference of 6-7 percent was identified. In this way, the entire financial supervision system has assisted in the looting of Hungarians on the interest page. [[10.50]] The State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, and when macro-prudential supervision merged with monetary policy supervision under the umbrella of the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian National Bank also assisted this process. A lot of Hungarian families would not have gotten into the National Asset Manager, would not have been forced to use the asset manager's help if the government had entered on time and the forinting had taken place at a much lower rate in 2010; 2. they would not have allowed the banks to increase interest rates in any way according to their own profit appetite; 3. if they had not allowed this defective product to operate in Hungary for years, and then, when the government settled this problem in its own way, at least in part, they continued to take bad professional steps. I'll tell you exactly what I mean. What Mr Mihály Witzmann was so proud of here, my fellow Members, was what the government did to the institution of end-payment. Well, he didn't help the families in the biggest trouble, he helped the ones who owed the banks the best. What have you done with this from the perspective of the banks? The quality of the credit portfolio of commercial banks has been significantly reduced because of the fact that the customers that were most sure to pay were taken out of the loan portfolio, while the unsure ones who had the foreign exchange credit on their fingernails and who were crippled by this whole situation could continue to struggle in the credit trap, and your party did not deal with these people at all. I go on: what my fellow Member is proud of here is the institution of the exchange rate barrier and the temporary five-year protection that the government has been able to offer. What was the consequence of this, my fellow Member? Well, there's something missing from your interpretation. In a separate account, interest is paid on the amount between the current exchange rate and the exchange rate fixed at that time. This was not released by the foreign exchange credentialers, but pushed out this problem for a few years, and this whole issue falls on the whole country's neck. Well, there hasn't been any real action here. They didn't help the needy, they helped the richest families, those who could practically pay off their loans in one amount. Many have, by the way, converted their foreign currency loans into forints, so the final repayment was made. That's what the government says, that we freed these families from the foreign exchange loan trap. Indeed, they have been transferred to the forint-loan trap, and are now facing very serious difficulties in living. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that when prudential supervision was still under the name of the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions in Hungary, I took the time to go up to the PSZAF website, I looked at an Excel table and I looked at the source and asset-side data of the credit institution sector, and I could see in this: two types of credit were distinguished by PSZEF according to its own methodology, on the one hand, the total amount of loans denominated in euro and, on the other hand, loans denominated in other currencies, typically in Swiss francs. I looked at the source and asset-side data, and what I saw was that there were five times the amount of credit that the banking sector itself had access to in this currency category outside the euro. What does that mean? That the suspicion that many people have already expressed in Hungary that there was no currency backing behind the loans has stopped. This suspicion has been shown that there has actually been no foreign exchange collateral behind these loans. And then we have to ask one of the most serious questions about the whole foreign exchange credit problem: if, behind these loans, there was no currency collateral, only a fraction, then how could the commercial banks, by reference to the increased exchange rate, have cruelly ironed this money from their customers? At the time, it was not the fact that the commercial banking system, operating as a loan shark, was pushed by its own government to the Hungarian people and allowed them to loot, let them pass on to them the cost of the exchange rate change, which, demonstrably and demonstrably, according to the financial supervision's own statistics, should not have burdened Hungarian people on the one hand, and allowed commercial banks to raise interest rates on loans unscrupulously. I remember the interview Levente Kovács, Secretary General of the Banking Association gave. When asked about the development of these interest rates, because it is somehow so strange, and there is no professional explanation as to how low the Swiss central bank base rate is, in the neighbouring countries, credit lenders pay significantly lower interest rates on loans at the same time in the same currency, he said that yes, yes, but banks and bank owners have a profit expectation of how much they want to earn in Hungary, and this profit expectation must be satisfied and interest raised. I have come to this point, fellow Members, that I have a commercial banker's acquaintance, several, and I have given one of them a loan-payer this was an experiment on our part with all of his documentation, his concluded credit agreement, and I have told him that listen, I will not give him the current amount of credit that this man is paying, I will push this into your hand and calculate the amount of this man's repayments this month. He looked at the papers in confusion and said that John, this is no way to tell. Well, then how can you tell if no commercial banker can tell? Then how do you expect uneconomically educated people in banking science to calculate the repayments of their own loans and even know the risks of them? Most of the risks were put on their heads by your government, and it did not even come directly from this type of loan, which was based on a fraud, that these people would have to bear these kinds of risks. What is it that we have proposed in order to resolve this problem once and for all in a reassuring way? First of all, it is very important to see that the Gordian knot has been cut with a single cut in Croatia, foreign exchange loans have been abolished, and that the banks have unlawfully introduced a type of credit based on people's scam. In Hungary, several commercial bankers have already found that it is a faulty product placed on the market, and that the credit lenders are not responsible for the failure of the banking system. It is also very important to see that if there is already an asset manager, it is not necessary to limit its operation, but to expand it as much as possible. This proposal that just came into this House, do you know when it was first formulated? In Abony, one of our sympathizers, Anikó Szeremi, formulated the idea of this. We discussed the matter with him in detail, and then the mayor of Abony came to the Parliament's Economic Committee, and he put forward the same proposal that is now in substance before you. However, as most Members are not aware of the operation of the asset manager, they practically did not understand this proposal, the Fidesz Members voted with abstention on this proposal and did not include it in a series of subjects, so this issue could not be discussed. However, I am pleased that this proposal has been drawn up, even as a government proposal, because we agree, of course, with the basic aim of the proposal to save these families and the asset manager to provide them with a preferential opportunity to buy homes. However, it is important to see how many missed opportunities there are. I say, fellow Members, the most important things. After the financial crisis in 2008, the banking system was blamed worldwide for the trouble it caused, and thinking has started on a trail around the world: the one who caused the mistake, the banking system should bear the consequences of the economic crisis it caused, at least in a significant part. By the way, this thinking has led, in no small part, to the emergence of different types of tax, various measures restricting credit institutions worldwide. One of these types of tax was the bank tax in Hungary, with less than half the tax burden on banks with a balance sheet total of more than HUF 50 billion in recent years. So the bank tax has been moderated by the government at a level that has reduced it by less than half over the last few years that people are just amazed. [[11.00]] To think, fellow Members, last year the commercial banks achieved a record profit of HUF 694 billion, and could be involved in a higher proportion of public burdens, but the government did nothing to them. The credit institution's allowance, of which HUF 20 billion was roughly the budget revenue that came from the annual level, was driven out by the government, thus making the burden of the banks easier. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I ask you to consider, with respect, when the profits of the banks in Hungary are a record, I think that both the sense of justice of society and economic rationality dictates that we involve banks at a higher level in the public burden and in the solution of the foreign exchange loan problem itself, because it is in our mutual, well-conceived, professionally justified interest. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-34	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes.
u2018-11-28-35	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor last night. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Witzmann's speech. Congressman Witzmann remembers almost everything, not the beginnings. 11 June 2001, if I remember correctly the exact date when the government at the time allowed Hungarian citizens to receive mortgage-based foreign exchange loans for the purchase of housing. Then, if I remember correctly, the Prime Minister was Viktor Orbán and the Minister of Finance was Zsigmond Járai. So almost everything you say is true, except that you basically allowed this type of product to appear on the market at all. The other is that you're very elegant with the exchange rate question. It is true that the exchange rate of the euro was above HUF 300 for four months from February 2009, but immediately in June 2009 it was HUF 290, then in January 2010 it was HUF 270-280, and from the beginning of 2008 it was HUF 245-250. So it can be said, even on the basis of the Parliamentary contribution of the Vice-President of the National Bank, he said that the exchange rate was stable at the time. It is most likely that if today the exchange rate of the euro was 245 or 250 HUF and the Swiss franc was 170-180 HUF, people would certainly not have so many problems. It was a crisis in 2008; you remember when they broke down the forint by telling Lajos Kósa that he would become a Greek example, that he would become a state failure, and then nothing came of it. Now the economy is pounding, then the exchange rate is 330 forints. Then I would ask why a euro is not now 245 forints if you are doing everything so well; while, again, foreign exchange lenders would certainly be pleased about this. On the other hand, they could have done so much sooner, since they had the opportunity to do so from 2010. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-36	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for two minutes, KDNP.
u2018-11-28-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is, however, brazen when Gergely Arató says that in 2010 some kind of successful crisis management was carried out and governance was given. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Let's see what happened during the first civil government between 1998 and 2002. A stable housing support system was built: personal income tax allowance, VAT refund, tax reduction, and the extension of half-socpol was also associated with the government's name. That's why the forint loan came up at the time. I would say to Attila Mesterházy that in 2002 there was a HUF 60 billion foreign currency exposure in society, in 2010 7,000 billion. This number has already been mentioned today, but you have not heard it yet. These family support schemes were subsequently dismantled to cover part of the spending of socialist government. Here, a drastic exchange rate change, a tax increase, and a reduction of hundreds of thousands of families were in difficulty. My fellow socialists, what did you do then? The Bajnai government had a very important measure, bringing a banking code of ethics into the Parliament. That's what happened. It didn't understand anything, it was useless. Nothing happened. I am pleased that a number of supporting proposals and supporting contributions have also been made here in this House. Congressman János Volner scolded us for 12 minutes, then said in a half minute that the proposal was not so bad, and then he scolded us again. But at least for half a minute, it was worth listening to, and it's important that you support it. Let's see what the then financial supervision or the then central bank led by your offshore knight did: nothing. None of the institutions has drawn sufficient attention to the risk and have not sanctioned the harmful practices of banks. I think we need to name the people responsible, name how we got here. We started on the way to solutions after 2010. There are many kinds of partial solutions, incomplete solutions, but we have done a lot of things for the debtors. This bill is also another step forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-38	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik, for two minutes.
u2018-11-28-39	Mr President, Dear House, It's a tough challenge to answer the questions. We could talk for a long time about who let that certain spirit out of the bottle was Fidesz, and we could also talk about what our partial solutions were good for; in fact, since 2010, in terms of the Quaestor scandal, I wouldn't be so proud of the joint performance of government and supervision. There's plenty more to explain on the certificate, but that's not what today's debate is about. I have one very important question to ask you. According to the reports, 10 percent of the people living in asset management homes were in a situation where, due to the accumulation of their various loans, they could not necessarily pay this reduced rent. Here, in terms of identifying the causes, I feel that the Government of Hungary cannot save the work of exploring what life situations are behind this phenomenon. After all, what lies in front of us, if I understand it correctly, applies only to citizens living in asset management homes who have been able to fully meet all their obligations. At the same time, unduly increased payments, in many cases public service cuts, or utility bills have caused delays in the rent here. I feel that a kind of rescue belt should also be provided to the government for those who cannot avail themselves of the benefits listed, but by being stranded outside all circles, they are likely to be evicted in addition to the government's assistance. I would like to prevent all of this, so my proposal is to create a compensation fund with the surplus of the MNB on foreign exchange conversion, including these funds, revealing typical life situations. These citizens should also be helped. My question, therefore, is what they can expect, whether the Government of Hungary even thought about helping those in the most difficult ranks. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2018-11-28-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond very briefly to my colleague Mr Attila Mesterházy. I think we have said a lot about this issue, and obviously for ideological reasons we will never be on the same page, and that is not my goal in my response. However, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, although he claims that foreign exchange credit schemes were introduced in Hungary in 2001, I, on the other hand, claim that between 98 and 2002, Hungarian borrowers and citizens had alternative choices in Hungary. They had the opportunity to favour loans based on the government interest-supported forints that are predominantly present on the market, which result in security and predictability, or favour foreign exchange loans. Well, my fellow Member, you were the ones after 2002 who took this alternative option away from the Hungarian people. Then let's be clear. It was your government that ended the state-supported HUF-based, interest-supported loans, and it was your government that thus threw foreign currency-based lending at the population. I think it may not be possible to repeat that number enough times, maybe you didn't understand it either, or maybe you didn't understand it, we said it twice: in 2002 the total stock of foreign currency loans in Hungary was 60 billion HUF! By 2010, after your eight-year, blessed governance, it increased to over 116 times, to 7000 billion. Then I do not know what we are talking about, my honourable fellow Member, with regard to foreign exchange loans. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-42	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-11-28-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A quick reaction: I did not argue that the stock had increased, I merely said where this issue began. So you probably weren't listening, not me in the last few comments. [[11.10]] I admit honestly that I am pleased with what Mihály Witzmann has said, and I am also pleased with the proposal itself, because if the situation of only one currency loaner can be improved and helped or restored, that is certainly good news. I do not know if you remember that, a few weeks ago, Mr Witzmann was the Vice President of the Hungarian National Bank, who answered the question I asked, that there is no foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary; he said that there is no such problem in Hungary; you have already solved it. Now, for someone who has said that, if I quote it correctly, a lot of people are still struggling with this problem, it means that I am right, but there is a problem in Hungary, and probably the government, too, because otherwise, it wouldn't bring any suggestions in this regard. So the vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank is probably wrong about this, too. On the other hand, I would like to suggest so much to those with strength that a little more modesty in communication is fitting, since we have read that these families are finally getting their apartments back, that was the exact wording. To do that, of course, you'll get it back, if you buy your apartment again, which you already bought on the market, once bought from the bank, and this is the third time you'll buy it from the asset manager. So I think it's helpful, it's helpful, but it's important to say that this is not a simple situation for those who have this option. The other is that they are very quiet about the question, as Congressman Witzmann has said here, about bank accountability. Please, I don't know what kind of bank accountability you're talking about; the Hungarian government has signed an agreement with the EBRD that exists only in English, so the government didn't think it was important to translate this agreement into Hungarian, which is about that the banks should not suffer any damage, their profits should not be reduced by any government measures. So the Hungarian government, Viktor Orbán, guaranteed the EBRD and the Banking Association that no damage could be caused to the Hungarian banks, which concerned the issue of foreign exchange lending or any other government measures. So I don't know if you understand. It was signed that the profits of the banks should not fall in any way under the influence of any government measure. Moreover, in this agreement it was also stated that the asset manager's activities should be extended to help as many families as possible. So the fact is that while they agreed in this agreement to expand the asset management activities, i.e. try to help more Hungarian people at the level of the citizens, of course it was also part of the fact that the interests of the banks could not be undermined and that evictions could be carried out in a barrier-free manner by each bank. Out of these two or three commitments, they only fulfil what is good for the banks, as the asset manager's activities will be eliminated with the current proposal, so they will not only expand but remove this possibility. In addition, there was an interesting response here to the bank settlement by the Vice-President of the National Bank that he said at a conference that, in fact, customers were not properly informed when these loans were taken up, and it is perfectly natural that this was so. Then I asked him if he saw it that way and said it publicly at a conference, which was also recorded, why not do something about it, why not hold the banks accountable for not being properly informed about consumer protection laws and rules. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank said, and this is used in lawsuits against foreign exchange lenders in court, that the Hungarian National Bank had a resolution that was about not being able to predict what the exchange rate would be, so they could not tell whether it was going up, down, and how much it would increase, and how much the exchange rate would decrease. This is a rather funny resolution, to put it mildly, because it follows that it would be very difficult to plan a budget in Hungary if we didn't know what the exchange rate would be; but the other problem is that the Hungarian National Bank could not, in an interesting way, predict the exchange rate change, thus the risk, could not be calculated by the banks, but the debtor should have known what risk he was taking, he should have been able to calculate and accurately assess the exchange rate risk by taking on a foreign currency loan-based resource. That is why I think that, while it is an initiative, let me say once again, we are pleased to see that it is in some form that helps foreign exchange lenders, but it is also important to see that the beginning of this has started with you not wanting to help foreign exchange lenders. Viktor Orbán made a statement about everyone taking responsibility for their own decisions. And then, I guess you've all figured out that this is a much bigger social problem than a joke could be used to hit it. We will certainly have an amendment to this proposal, as Lajos Korózs has already said. Let me mention two subjects to you. One is that, if I remember correctly, the proposal now states that in 60 days, the parties must decide whether to pay for their apartments within a year, so whether they are involved in this programme. We will suggest that in 60 days they decide whether their apartment will be paid for in the next four years, because at present, as today's news shows, roughly 1300 people have taken advantage of the possibility of buying back the apartment; it is true that the news did not reveal that the asset manager had roughly 1,000 people evicted from his apartment, so perhaps it is accurate if we pair these two in Hungarian to have a longer term to pay for their apartment. This would be one of our amendment proposals thematically, I'm sure. The other is that it should be extended to those who are involved or for whom this is an opportunity, because, if I understand correctly, those who have accumulated public debt cannot take advantage of this option, or those who have previously been rejected by the asset manager for some reason, cannot take advantage of it, so we should look at how this tool or this device could be expanded, make it available to more people, and perhaps create a slightly more predictable and more flexible conditions for this programme. We hope that these improvements and improvements will be taken into account by the governing majority, and we hope that, if they are accepted, indeed, as Lajos Korózs mentioned, the MSZP fraction is ready to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-44	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr János Volner.
u2018-11-28-45	Thank you very much. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, my fellow Member from KDNP, spoke about why we are making such a very extensive criticism. My fellow Member, because it is our duty [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what I asked you!]] We are opposition representatives, we say what we agree with. I have also called this proposal good and forward-looking in my public appearances, and in my television appearances, but it is very important that we have very little opportunity to formulate our own better intentions. First of all, it is very important for us to feel responsible as politicians for pointing out a very important fact: everyone's problem is the foreign exchange credit problem, not just that of families with foreign exchange credit. What I've just told you, the discretionary income ratio spins the economy around the world, which spins the automotive industry, car sales, construction, related sectors, trade, service industry through this. If there is no discretionary income, because the middle-class population is indebted at the same level as in Hungary, because the otherwise available income ratio is carried to the banks, then the Hungarian economy will not spin, then our own economy will not recover, then it will be what we see now: foreign companies are coming here, providing wage work for Hungary, but we will not be able to realise capital income, because our businesses will not be able to strengthen in the domestic market. And it is our duty to point out this connection, even on this subject. It is also our duty, particularly as opposition representatives, to criticise the government's work. This is what I did, I criticized it on a professional basis, and I pointed out what I think the government has done wrong or not in time, how it could have helped this problem, why the exchange rate has gone, what kind of government tossing has led us here, and it has been very important to make proposals. After all, we made a forward-looking proposal on what could be the source of the next steps, which Daniel Z. Kárpát said before us, for example, the proper settlement of the central bank's profits to the state, the owner. Here we have stated earlier that the results accounting practice of the UK central bank should be transposed into Hungarian relations; the profits generated by the central bank should be paid into the budget immediately, and not those hundred billion HUF that are currently being struck by the Hungarian National Bank should not be used as pocket money by György Matolcsy. [[11.20]] And the state is using it properly, using it to help families with foreign exchange credit, because it is in our best interests. It was interesting what Attila Mesterházy mentioned here about the conclusion of an agreement with the EBRD. It is practically a pact that the Hungarian government has concluded with the banking system and has given it privileges. Let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to the indignation when it came to the fact that socialist governments, when they privatized the Hungarian energy sector, guaranteed asset-related profits for investors, in contrast to market processes, so it was not entrepreneurial talent and efficiency that was significant, but they were virtually guaranteed that they could raise Hungarian energy prices to a level that would provide them with a return on assets. What do we see now, fellow Members? The banking sector, the credit institution system, is in a privileged position, not only during socialist governments, but also with you. What other business sectors are known in Hungary, what other business segments they can identify, where they guarantee that government measures will not be a burden on the particular sector. Where they guarantee that the taxation of the banking system is practically paved from the top and that the burden can only be reduced, but they cannot in any way increase. You have not concluded such agreements with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but with the actors of the credit institutions sector, with the banks themselves. And the fact that you are being called to account by an opposition representative and rightly to be the subject of criticism, I think it is the most understandable thing in the world, because it is very strange that, after the banking system has caused such an amazing crisis in Hungary, you will then make a special deal with him, within the framework of which the banking system will be given privileges over other economic sectors. It is also worth understanding that what we do with the National Asset Manager and non-performing loans, with the NPLs, is not a favor to the banks, and I would add, just to avoid misunderstandings: not even to foreign exchange taxpayers. Banks should provide a reserve for non-performing loans, NPLs. This significantly undermines their lending capacity, impairs the quality of their loan portfolio, so it is in everyone's interest that commercial banks be cleaned up and rid of these loans. If you look at it now, in fact, commercial banks do not belong to the majority of foreign exchange-credit organisations, but to the other economic organizations purchasing their claims. In practice, the government has lost this problem in such a way that it has, by the way, run ahead quite rightly with the introduction of the National Asset Manager and, by the way, I agree that the operation of the National Asset Manager should be extended. That is what I myself have proposed to extend these measures to as many people as possible, as this is important and meaningful to them. But what I think is very important in this proposal is that for foreign exchange creditors, for those who now live in national asset management homes, this apartment should be available for purchase. They are mainly property with a threshold otherwise the operation of the National Asset Manager, which means that luxury estates cannot be included in this circle in the first place, which can otherwise be sold only at a price which is very printed on a market basis. So the government is not doing us any favors, either, but a deal is made that involves certain losses for all parties and, of course, costs money for the state, but it is still the cheaper solution to this problem than if all the social burdens of this were imposed on the budget. It is also very important to see that it has become a fundamental risk reduction tool within the banking system to get rid of NPLs, non-performing loans. This is not only a trend in Hungary, and it shows not only the so-called genius of the Hungarian government, it happened everywhere in the world, it took place very similarly everywhere in the world. After the impact of the 2008 crisis was over, there was an enormous abundance of assets, very cheap resources available to investors on the market, and the acquisition of these properties took place in this way. Where appropriate, the asset manager shall perform a similar function. I will therefore say this again: I agree with this proposal, but we have a responsibility in all of this to say our criticism, in all of this, to formulate our forward-looking proposals. I also pointed out financial collateral in my own proposal, from what source I would like the government to continue with the bank debt rescue package, from which source this problem should be resolved. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth.
u2018-11-28-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the factions and speakers who have found the proposal worthy of such ratings, but worthy of support, and believe that, in today's situation, this proposal is current and possible to be adopted. I also agree with the speakers who have said that this is the title of providing home for the natural persons involved in the National Asset Management Programme, and it is essentially about the 57 thousand real estates and some 154 thousand families who have been interested in the operation of the asset manager for the past seven years and are currently interested. This proposal supports the re-creation of these people, hundreds of thousands of people. It is obvious, and this has been shown by the several-hour debate that it is obvious that such a topic gives us the opportunity to enter into general economic policy, financial policy and real estate policy discussions, the professional content of which I do not wish to dispute, since my task is to answer the questions raised in relation to this presentation and the questions raised in relation to them. Allow me to advance what we are talking about, so that you know this very well, this is the bill; after its adoption, it will have an implementing regulation, which answers a number of questions and contains a number of regulations that have been mentioned here this morning. Allow me to answer one of the basic questions here with the remark that what I am saying is just the draft of the implementing regulation, so it is obvious that the law must be adopted first. According to this plan and our current intention, if the property is purchased by the tenant, the purchase price of the property corresponds to the purchase price paid by the National Asset Manager for the property. Therefore, not the market price, not the current price, but the price previously recorded. So not the market value in Hungarian. I think that this fits in with the line that, although it is obvious, people sitting on different sides of Parliament value differently, but it fits in with the line that includes forinting, exchange rate risk, exchange rate barrier, end-payment measures. [[11.30]] I do not want to take the debate of the bill into such a number magic, but when, in the order of at least 100,000, I ask my fellow opposition Members to remain within the limits of reality. So obviously, when you say sums, you do not dispute the numbers between these measures, those which you consider to be wrong or less wrong or considered to be sufficient or insufficient, please at least acknowledge that this series of measures has alleviated the problems of hundreds of thousands of families. You may not have solved the problem for all of them permanently, but basically, the problem that existed in 2010 has been greatly mitigated. I don't want to live up to the debate about who can do what here. There is no doubt that the political history will analyse this, but I ask that a period of a few months, which can be estimated at about 1 percent of all cases, should not be compared to a ten-year-old with a result of some 130 times that period, i.e. how this situation generally stood. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that several contributors have sometimes slipped the positions between the parties, that when the asset manager bought the property, the debt of the lenders to the bank ceased to exist. So there was a change in the parties, and from then on, the loan-payer had nothing to do with the bank. The banks would then not be able to make any claims on the State or on the private eye. So there was a change in the person of the parties, in addition to the fact that there was a roof over the heads of the people. Once again, thanks to the contributions of my fellow Members who supported the presentation, I would like to reiterate in the statement by my fellow members of the Government that the draft explicitly states that the creditors who announce the intention to participate in the asset manager until the day after its publication, at least at the level of intent, will still accept the request of the asset manager. According to our current knowledge, it's somewhere around 2,000. So we're not closing this process in a coup. It was also acknowledged here by Congressman Korózs that the government had helped anyone who had indicated that he was in trouble. The asset management program was also part of the social housing program, and the mentoring facility was involved. Just so that some questions do not remain entirely in the air, someone here has forgotten that the overhead costs did not help with the backlog. In the past years, the household deficit in the area of overhead costs has decreased significantly, both under 90 days and over 90 days. I do not want to continue with the series of comments taken towards emotion, so allow me to make two comments, my fellow Member. One is that when the comments are personal and, let's say, they apply to the conscience of the author, this may also be a closing word: I bought centrifuges when I paid for the details of the washing machine. So in this regard, my conscience about my credit is clear, and I am aware of who has the basic responsibility in such a construction. With this closing word, I would like to thank you once again for the supporting contributions. I would ask those who have indicated that they wish to submit amendments, to submit them, and I would ask that, after having discussed them in committee, the proposal, which, in essence, you have considered to be eligible for support by way of additions, be supported. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-48	Thank you, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the 2021 census will follow until closure. The government referral is T/3609. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe.
u2018-11-28-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Changes in social processes and the need to understand and process changes require reliable, timely, spatially detailed data to be available in order to follow and understand them. To do this, you can say that a unique source of data is the census. Since 1870 there has been regular censuses in Hungary, usually at 10-year intervals. The next census in 2021 will be the 16th among the official Hungarian censuses. The ten-year census is carried out around the world by national statistical offices to get a detailed picture of population size, demographic conditions, education, employment, nationality, religious composition, health status, domestic, family conditions and living conditions. The Law 1. According to §.-a, the next census would take place between 1 May and 20 June 2021 according to data at zero o'clock on 1 May 2021. The census covers not only every individual living in Hungary, but also the complete census of the country's population and population, so it also provides detailed information on the characteristics of the apartments. The results of the census are widely used, not only by decision-makers but also by the various layers of users. We must also add that the implementation of the census is also an EU obligation. Accordingly, the census is an essential information base for economic policy, territorial development, population and family, nationalities, social situation, occupation, housing policy, but it is also a data base for scientific research, analysis and understanding the functioning of local society. However, a very rapid change in social processes also requires that the census be constantly renewed. In line with the modern requirements of statistical data production, it is no longer considered as an isolated data collection, which gives a snapshot of Hungarian society every ten years, but plays a central role in the integrated system of statistical data collection, which includes data collections of other censorship types, continuous, annual and multi-annual statistical data collections and so-called administrative data sources, which are increasingly important between statistical data sources. The census in this system serves as a starting point of reference. [[11.40]] Experience in recent years has shown us that one of the most significant demands is the continued availability of detailed spatial data, but these can be ensured primarily by censuses and possible further data collections of the census. On this basis, the planned 21st century census with the bill intends to increase the use of administrative records in the public administration, along with traditional data collection, and to collect data collected from different data sources, integrating it to provide a wide range of analytical and decision-making potential over the next decade. This practice also follows international legislation and the solutions applied by other EU Member States. At the next census, 11 countries out of 28 Member States of the European Union are planned to carry out a census based solely on administrative data by identifying persons and an additional 11 countries will use questionnaire surveys to supplement the existing public records databases by asking for names or other identity data. Obviously, our long-term goal is to join the countries that carry out the census solely on administrative grounds. It should also be pointed out that, in the near future, EU legislation requiring Member States to provide census data on an annual basis will be adopted, and this should only be ensured by using available public records. The use of administrative data can be considered a first step, but the direct collection of data cannot, unfortunately, be replaced by a full register-based census, because the registers do not currently fully cover the scope of census data, and the working records do not yet fully meet the requirements of statistical processing. However, the available data will contribute to ensuring a more complete coverage and filling in the missing data in comparison with the data recorded at the census. In addition, the fact that the data available in the public register will also be used by the KSH will help to process the data more quickly and allow the previous disclosure. In addition, this proves to be a more cost-effective solution than the traditional census in the classical sense. As a result, the costs of the 2021 census will not exceed the cost level of ten years ago. In 2021, therefore, the usual census data circles will be listed. This is the housing situation of the population, the demographic situation, family composition, work, economic activity, health status, nationality, religious composition. Reporting shall be mandatory except for nationality, religion and health data which are classified as specific data. It should also be pointed out that the use of administrative data, i.e. the combination with public registers, is only possible if the data provided by reporting agents at the time of the census can be clearly coordinated with the data from the register. This identification is made possible by the inclusion of a family name and a first name. It should be pointed out that the 2001 and 2011 censuses were the only censuses in the history of Hungarian censuses when the name was not listed, while in the other Member States of the European Union where the census is carried out in a similar way, data collection was carried out everywhere in 2011 in a manner suitable for identification in all EU Member States. This is the case not only in the European Union, but also in other regions of the world. According to the opinion of Hungarian citizens, this data, which I will now say, is provided by a representative opinion poll carried out by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in July 2018, 83 percent of Hungarian citizens agreed to provide their family and first names during this statistical data collection, and the largest public support of the five identification data that they asked, namely name, mother's name, personal number, Taj number, tax identification mark, among these offered options. Of course, in the process of personal identification of the entire Hungarian population, special attention should be paid to ensuring data protection requirements, ensuring data security in all circumstances. The bill contains extensive safeguards for this when it requires that the data provided by the reporting agents are automatically aliased at the moment of the data collection during the 21st census. Data processing, data preparation and data processing, as provided for in the bill, in accordance with the general data protection rules, shall continuously guarantee the separate, pseudonymised treatment of both special data, identification data and other data specifically recorded within the framework of the census of 21. The security of special data on religion and nationality is also served by the need to be completely anonymised after processing, so that their relationship with the reporting agents can no longer be restored. In addition, it is proposed that the use of individual data should only be for statistical purposes and that any use for non-statistical purposes should be prohibited. The disclosure of data, and therefore the subsequent publication of data, are also subject to strict provisions of the Law on Statistics, on the basis of which individual data cannot be disclosed or disclosed to anyone else. In order to enforce data protection guarantees, the bill also states specifically that during the preparation, implementation and processing of the census of 21 the Hungarian Central Statistical Office cooperates closely with representatives of ethnic and religious communities and people with disabilities. This also ensures the transparency of the Census 21 and this is, once again, a guarantee set out in the bill. As regards the implementation of the data collection, the aim is to ensure that the questionnaire is completed as quickly as possible and in the most flexible way. To this end, data will be provided electronically in 2021, on an online interface, on multiple mobile devices, by completing the questionnaire independently, and using tablets by counter commissioners. So the questionnaire will be completed by electronic means everywhere, either by the citizens themselves or by the interviewees using tablets. Through this electronic data collection, data can be provided on its own at a convenient time and the duration of the response will be significantly reduced even in the case of interview methods. In summary, it can be said that this bill, which is being negotiated by the House at the moment, is part of Article XXI. A census, which ensures data quality and data protection at the same time as the most widely appropriate for the requirements of the 20th century, domestic and international legislation, international practice and data users, will allow the continuous production of census data, not only in a moment of time, and will be a strategic source of statistical data for the following decade. That is why I would like to ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2018-11-28-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Dávid Héjj, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-28-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Madam President! Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's rapidly developing world, processes in society, as well as changes in parallel, are taking place more and more rapidly and more intensively. To understand the change of Hungary and the world, we need to have reliable, timely and detailed research and analyses. With this goal in mind, following nearly a century and a half practice, a census will take place in 2021 in Hungary, with the aim of giving the state a complex, comprehensive and accurate picture of the current situation of Hungarian society. The statistics obtained as a result of the research are essential for the preparation of government decisions and are of particular importance to economic operators, scientific and educational workshops, as well as to the public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the census for the census of the inhabitants of the country II. I was ordered by King Joseph, which was executed between 1784 and 1787. After that, it took almost a hundred years for the leaders of the Hungarian state to recognize the importance of the institution of the census. In Hungary, the first official statistical service was founded in 1867 by the then government with the establishment of the statistical department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry and Trade, the first head of which was Károly Keleti. The new organisation came and came due to the data requirements of the independent Hungarian state regarding the composition of the population and housing stock. One of his first tasks is the 1869 III. According to the law, the first census, i.e. a complete census covering the entire territory of the country, has been organised, which, as has been the case in all Hungarian censuses since then, included an inventory of apartments. In the nearly 150 years since then, the current census law has been established again and again every ten years. The second census carried out in 1880 was organized by the independent Hungarian Royal Statistical Office established in 1871. Therefore, 150 years after the census referred to above, the next census, which is now 16 will be due in 2021. A new, fresh, unique data source will then be available, providing a detailed picture of the size of the domestic population, its ethnicity and religious composition, health status, educational level, employment and family conditions. It should be stressed, as Mr Secretary of State has said, and as I have pointed out earlier, that the census will not only cover people living in Hungary, but we will also have detailed information on the census of the country's housing stock, i.e. the characteristics of the apartments. I would like to talk briefly about why the results of the censuses are important. The database to be handled at the Central Statistical Office is essential for public governance, as these data enable the government to make plans and develop programmes within a realistic framework. Economic policy, family and population policy objectives are well based on demographic indicators from the census. Social policy ideas would be unplanned and even unenforceable without knowledge of employment, education, health and housing data. Scientific research and representative surveys on the stratification of societies at national, regional or even smaller local level would not be feasible without the data of the Central Statistical Office or only with great difficulties. National and ecclesiastical policies could not be established within a reasonable framework without knowledge of these statistical indicators, as the census is the only data source from which it is possible to learn about domestic religious relations and to follow in a comparative manner the changes in the number and social and territorial characteristics of the individual denominations. A complete census is the only data source that ensures the full coverage and territorial detail of the data, and that the information on the smallest units of society and the economy can be combined in all respects with domestic and international research needs. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the House's table fully complies with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union. It is important to point out that, since data on natural persons are recorded during the census which constitute an essential feature of their personality, it is essential that these data are used in an anonymised manner within a defined framework and that they can only be retained for the period laid down by law. The bill sets out in detail the process of recording data, including the processing of personal identifiers, providing adequate protection during the entire data processing process. This bill seeks to regulate the management and use of the data collected, based on and adapted to the legal material of the European Union, in such a way as to make them unfit for identification. The implementation of the census is not only a domestic obligation, but also an obligation of the European Union, and I think that the bill is in line with these obligations, as an example of the fact that, among other things, the collection of data on residence, marital status, economic activity will be organised on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. We will probably hear in the debate how the government and the Hungarian Central Statistical Office will use the data, and I am sure that it is good, which Mr. State Secretary has already spoken about. I do not want to repeat that the Central Statistical Office has conducted a public opinion poll during the summer, but I think that the number that Mr. Secretary of State has said wishes to be repeated again, or it is worth saying it again: 83% said that they do not mind that their full name should be given in the course of the research. In carrying out the census and managing the data, the security of data processing and the use of data for statistical purposes should also be guaranteed. To this end, the law provides for guarantees and guarantees regarding the separation and separate management of the recorded identification data. As the Secretary of State said, when the questionnaire is finalised, at the moment of data recording, the data collection application will immediately, in an automatic manner, perform the anonymization of the data. I think that the professional history and practice of the Central Statistical Office should guarantee this for all of us. In addition, the transparency of data management is specifically supported by the provision of the bill that the KSH will be involved in the preparation and implementation of the census with representatives of the various interest groups and will work with them on an ongoing basis. The data file created when processing is closed will no longer be suitable for identification, but data communications can be made from it, data analyses can be made in relation to which data recorded during the census can be examined, thus providing users with detailed and wide-ranging information, while at the same time ensuring the safe handling of specific data. The law guarantees that the data collected can only be used for statistical purposes, which ensures that the individual data of the reporting agents cannot be disclosed in an identifiable manner and that they cannot be used for other purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the above, it can be said that the bill is a modern, XXI. It outlines a century census for 2021, which guarantees both the interests of reporting agents and data users in a cost-effective and secure way. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the tabled proposal and I ask my fellow opposition Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-52	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-28-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik agrees with all the goals that we have heard twice today, how important it is for all countries, so it is for our country to have the numbers that establish the right social, economic and political decision-making as fresh as possible for decision-makers, or to be aware of issues that are also important for Hungarian society, so, obviously, I do not want to repeat these important arguments that have been expressed in the explanatory statement, but I would like to raise some questions and comment. When I took the proposal into my hands, one of the first things I had to do was compare it with the bill on the 2011 census with the bill on the current one, the bill on the 21st census, and I didn't have to look for it for long, and in the first few paragraphs I found an interesting difference. And this is number one. Paragraph 2 of the 2011 census, which said that the 2011 census covers citizens living in Hungary or temporarily residing abroad. However, in the current proposal, this census covers citizens living in Hungary or staying abroad for less than 12 months. [[12.00]] There is a difference here in the second half of the sentence, and I would like to immediately ask the Secretary of State why this difference is due to the fact that in 2011 everyone who has even been abroad has been registered, but now only those who stay abroad for less than 12 months will be registered. I think that this is an interesting difference, and especially with regard to the fact that here in today's Hungarian public life, when the data of the census and data on Hungarian society are mentioned in general, we do not usually discuss and discuss how many men and women there are in Hungarian society or what their family situation is in Hungarian society, but, for example, the issue of emigration, which causes a very serious contrast here between the opposition and the ruling parties, the extent of their migration in Hungary, how many hundreds of thousands of people are involved. From this point of view, it does not matter that this paragraph has changed, for example, because it raises questions. What about those who have permanent residence in Hungary, for example, but who have been abroad for 12 months, so they have been abroad for more than one year? I think we can all set an example of this: it does not affect one or two people, but it can affect tens of thousands of people, who, once again, have their permanent residence here because of their attachment or any other motivation, but who are also living in a different country. It also raises the question of what happens to those who go home, say, one or two times a year for a few days or a week or two, and say that they are so attached to the country that they would like to participate in this census, and so they are not only their permanent residence, but let's say if we ask them, they also say that they do not stay abroad for more than 12 months. So they are taken into account anyway, but in practice their presence at home is limited to a few days a year. Once again, the issue of emigration is important here, because if you are interested in the data of the census, this is the topic of debate that is being discussed from time to time, either in Parliament or at different locations, and there is very little agreement on this issue. This is important not only because of the fact itself, but also from the point of view of the conclusions to be drawn from it, how serious the problem of emigration is, and what kind of steps are needed to slow down, halt and reverse this process in the long term. So I trust that I will get a substantive answer to these questions, and then we will be able to talk together at least at this level about the issue of emigration. The second difference you've mentioned here between the censuses of the year 11 and 21 is the recording of the name. However, the doubts that my fellow Member has referred to here do not arise by accident in Hungarian society. We are pleased that KSH's poll has shown such a high number, but it is also worth addressing doubts. In a country where the governing parties operate a Kubatov list on a systemic basis, and we are slowly beginning to think that even at the last doorman, when they are looking for someone to fill such a job, they are looking to see where he is now classified according to the Kubatov list, then it is understandable that he is concerned in a significant part of Hungarian society, doubting that his name is now being asked about the last two censuses and that he should also report on this. And, by the way, there is a historical doubt about the Hungarian censuses in Hungarian society. Unfortunately, there have been cases here in the last 150 years, from the first census in 1870, where these census data were subsequently used for purposes that create mistrust in Hungarian society. It's still the 19th. At the end of the 20th century, when the Austrian administration did this, or after 45 when German citizens were deployed on this basis. That is why historical events have occurred here, which also create a general mistrust in Hungarian society. As a little colorful, I don't know, you probably know the story of the first time in 2001, when you asked about the denomination, and in the Anglo-Saxon countries, protesting why it should be answered, for example, in New Zealand and Britain, a significant part of society called or registered itself as a Jedi religion, more than one percent of New Zealand society became a Jedi religion in New Zealand, for example. Just as a small color, so as not to be the country of, say, a million Butchers, anyone who has doubts about this will dictate it. So this thing, I think, has not developed here by accident among those who, in response to the opinion of the HCSO, have expressed mistrust or, regardless, mistrust. Because, by the way, I have to add, despite the fact that I have mistrust, for example, and I think that there are a lot of us in the same way, regardless of the statistical and other aspects, it is understandable that the family name and the first name will be registered. The professional reasons for this are certain, however, I say once again, the lack of trust in many of us. I would like to make an observation on how to fill it. It is in the interests of all of us that the online filling and thus the Hungarian society's IT, if you can call it that, will increase its culture. In 2011, 19 percent of society filled out questionnaires online. In this connection, we would like to make the proposal that it is worth considering whether to motivate people in some way or reward people who do this online. I think that this would also be a sound and considered proposal from the point of view that even a reward does not necessarily increase the cost of this whole census, even because it is costing a questioner to prepare this survey with one person. There's a unit of what these commissioners are used to paying for, isn't there? If this award is not given to the person employed by KSH, but to the fill-in itself, it does not in itself increase the budget of the entire census, but it is more progressive to motivate people to fill this questionnaire online. I think that this is worth discussing and considering. Speaking of costs, I would also like to be told that, in relation to the 2011 census, on the basis of comparison with other countries, the cost of referendums was HUF 2000 per person, which is about $7-8. I am signaling the dollar because it is an international comparison, and, for example, in Malta, this census was made out of $4.9, which means that they are also the traditional census method, so they did not use the method of register-based and not the method of the so-called combined census, which would, in any case, be clearly cheaper; but it also exists for the traditional basis, not only for Malta, but also for several countries that brought out the census cheaper. At the same time, we have not seen any account of how the previous census has cost us this much, why it is more expensive than in other countries, and in the context of the 2021 census, we also wonder what the costs will look like in this area. They should make a reasonable effort to get this census out of as little as possible. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention once again to the issue of emigration, which is what I consider to be the most Cardinal, so that we can get as realistic data as possible in the context of the census, and from then on we might avoid the debates that we are currently having in Parliament. When we talk about emigration, we can debate not how this issue should be resolved, but how serious the phenomenon is, how many people are affected. It would be important for the 2021 census, if not sooner, but at least for 2021, to help us to conduct meaningful debates in this way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-28-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, The census shall be a regular, usually every 10 years, full-scale survey covering the population of the country as a whole and referring to a predetermined date. [[12.10]] The change in social processes requires that decision-makers have reliable, timely and spatially detailed data to prepare their decisions and measure their impact. In 2021, the 16th census will take place. It is very important that the 2021 census, in addition to traditional data collection, wants to make greater use of administrative records kept in the public administration, integrating data from different data sources, ensuring a continuous information base instead of the previous ten-year period, providing a wide range of analytical and decision preparation and monitoring potential over the next decade. We consider this to be an extremely important step forward or innovation. Clearly, ensuring an adequate guarantee of data protection is essential here for the implementation of the 2021 census, in particular with regard to the use of new types of data sources. I do not wish to refer to the fact that the high numbers that were mentioned earlier in the polls carried out by the HCSO were the high acceptance of people's own names, but it should be stressed that the two censuses in the history of national censuses were 2001 and 2011 when the name could not appear on the questionnaire. Of the EU Member States, the census was carried out only in Hungary in 2011 in an unidentifiable manner. The collection of personal identification data in international practice does not preclude the collection of specific data. In 2011, out of the 22 European countries using questionnaire data collection, 21 countries had a census of individuals identified. In relation to nationality, data were collected in 15 countries, including Cyprus, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Estonia, Croatia, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Romania and Switzerland, with no names on the issue of nationality but only on the name in Hungary and Slovakia, but in Slovakia with an identification number. I would also like to welcome in particular the process of seeing in the 2011 census data that compared to 2001 the number of people claiming to belong to a native nationality has increased. This is a particularly welcome process, and we hope that this process will be further strengthened in the context of the 2021 census, obviously as a result of the work of national minority advocates and the increased, more than fourfold increase in minority support. I am talking about 14 countries of the European Union, and 12 countries, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Croatia, Ireland, Lithuania, Germany, Portugal, Romania and Switzerland, outside the European Union, have collected data on this subject in addition to the inclusion of the names of those concerned. The question of religion has always been included in the census questionnaire until the census in 1949, and since 2001 it has been part of the census program again. During the communist regime, religious affiliation was not included in the census questionnaire, and we know that the anti-churchism of the Gyurcsány government and its disdainful involvement made it possible that in 2009 the socialist government prepared a law in which the question of denomination was not at all among the questions. This had to be corrected by the Orbán government in 2010, whereas László Sólyom, President of the Republic at the time, sent the bill back to Parliament for consideration, but the then socialist-liberal parliamentary majority did not include it, so in 2010 the second Orbán government amended this law so that the question of denomination was included in the questionnaire. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Jobbik, in a few sentences. On the one hand, you are arguing not with us on the issue of emigration, but with statistical data, Eurostat data, on emigration issues. Exactly last year's results came out that one of the lowest emigration rates in Hungary is in the region. Perhaps a small positive trend, as more people have returned home than they have left, this was realized last year in the first year, and we hope that this year will be the second year. Here we have completely solid, exact statistics, and they said that they make the number of our countrymen working abroad up to 325 thousand; these are Eurostat data. Eurostat is not a Hungarian institute, it is not government data, it is not Fidesz-KDNP data, it is Eurostat data, and it is also likely that 70-80 thousand of these 325 thousand people commute daily to Austria, for example, on the Western border. My colleague here told me about lists and lists of all kinds. This is not exactly what Jobbik should do, because it was the filth portal associated with you who regularly published names with phone numbers, addresses, family members. Obviously, this filth portal is already [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: On the one hand, don't tell me what the opposition is about... you're your own bitch...]] He hasn't been as supportive of you since you showed up at the Spinoza House, and so he hasn't been following this behavior, but he's been regularly publishing phone numbers, addresses, schools, all kinds of data about family members of Fidesz-KDNP politicians, so we're not asking Jobbik for advice in data security if they accept me. [[Gergely Farkas: Satellite Organization! Satellite pair! Don't give them that much money.]] The KDNP faction welcomes this proposal, welcomes the fact that it contains a lot of innovation and welcomes the special attention given to data protection by the government and therefore supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-56	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to notary Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-28-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I can share less in the enthusiasm of the KDNP, although I would not say that I am surprised by the Member's position. Then, if you don't agree with the government by chance, let me know, because there will be major bets in the country. Anyway, I would like to return to this wonderful bill because the Member says that this bill is full of innovation. Innovation is really in it, because once again the government's intention is to learn as much about citizens as possible whether it has anything to do with it or not. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a fundamental privacy principle, the principle of necessity. If the previous two censuses, you know, when there was still a republic and democracy, could be carried out without the need to collect personal data in order to allow everyone to respond calmly to the referendum questionnaire, then why now is this necessary? Is it because it's more comfortable for you? Or is it because I want to link the data to other databases, partly legally and partly illegally? Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides a way for the government to collect data that is not necessary, and it would be unacceptable even if there were adequate guarantees, but of course there is no such thing. This bill lacks basic data protection guarantees, they essentially allow the linking of the referendum database to other databases without limit, they can essentially link this database with everything, which, of course, again I understand, gives you a good deal of information for your next lying election campaign, but neither this nor that legitimately justifies you linking the referendum database with all databases. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, there are no adequate guarantees that there is sufficient control over databases to ensure adequate control over personal data. We have no reason or intention to doubt the competence or integrity of the employees of the KSH and the KSH, but we have reason to doubt the integrity of the heads of the KSH, the government, and therefore we say that with their hands, the data of the electorate, the Hungarian citizens. Don't collect data on anyone you don't need. If there was a well-established procedure, which enjoyed public confidence, the anonymous referendum data collection, then there is no need to link this now with the names of voters or citizens and their personal data. Dear fellow citizens, The second matter I would like to talk about is just because Congressman Nacsa was so kind to address me, collecting data on religion and ethnicities, because, my fellow Members, it is a professional question whether data on religious affiliation should be collected at a census. Not necessarily, in our view, the state, because religion is not a state matter, has nothing to do with what voters believe or do not believe. This is an existing philosophical debate between us, and indeed there is such a thing and such a practice. But the minimum thing to expect is that if you collect religious data, there should be an adequate guarantee that all responders are absolutely clear that in this area the response is voluntary, and all respondents know that only then must the state provide it... these guarantees are far from sufficient guarantees. Appropriate, strong guarantees are needed to provide clear information to all responders that they are not obliged to provide their religious data and to make a clear statement as to whether they wish to provide religious data before they ask them what denomination they belong to. This requires very clear guarantees that are much clearer than at present. Of course, we do not see the questionnaire yet, so we can only start from the bill, but we would like to have a clear guarantee of this. Similarly, we would like to have a clear guarantee of nationality data, because Hungary is not, in this sense, one of the EU countries or one of the countries of the world. In Hungary there was a 1941 census with all its consequences. If you do not know what the consequences were, then ask Mr Imre Ritter or Mr Spokesman and then enlighten you. I must say, therefore, that this is also a highly sensitive data in Hungary, and it is only possible to request data from voters or citizens if it is absolutely certain that this is voluntary and they are aware that these data will be recorded, that you will be aware of this from now on. [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, All in all, we can therefore say that while there is, of course, a census, we absolutely refuse to record the names of the responders, because this is not necessary, it creates unnecessary data that is only necessary if someone wants to abuse these data. I'm sorry, it's no guarantee to us that you're in the law, that someday, someday, these data will be destroyed. Well, that's what I think when I see it, it's a category. The safest way of data protection is not to collect unnecessary data. In addition, I have to say that we want much stronger guarantees and we ask in this law that sensitive data can only be collected after proper information and consent, so that it is absolutely clear to everyone that these data have only voluntary data, let alone forced to do so, but it is impossible to pression or even point out the answers. Because let me be clear, and let me speak very briefly about church records: I know why you need church data. Because while we know from sociological surveys that many of the Hungarian people do not attend church ceremonies, they do not consider themselves churchgoers, while you refer to the masses of believers on the basis of census data. It's just that these census data are no longer clear what level of attachment they record. I would like to continue this right now, and their goal is to make arguments for their own false Christian policy. Only the census is not for this, dear fellow Members. Finally, let me also say that you have shown good practice and good practice in organizing election fraud. Now I see that they are entering a new area when they are also trying to create census fraud, delivering Hungary to the level of well-developed democracies such as the Central African countries or Moldova. We're not gonna be partners in this. Thank you very much, fellow Members.
u2018-11-28-58	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate.
u2018-11-28-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/3609 on the 2021 census. It feels involved in the legislative proposals, and I thank the House Committee, above all, for the declaration of the bill as a national agenda, and for the fact that the rapporteur has already proposed that it be negotiated as such. The Committee put the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 26 November 2018, held a debate on the proposal and formulated the Commission's opinion. With 12 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, he unanimously decided to hold a detailed debate on the bill in accordance with Rule 32 of the House Rules. § 2 of the bill as a whole. As a precedent, I would like to recall that T/10105 is now. The Commission's recommendation on Human Rights, Minority, Civil Affairs and Religion to the 2011 Census Bill also made proposals for amendments to religion, mother tongue and ethnicity, and we therefore believe that the Commission's opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary at its meeting on 26 November 2018 can be justified and correct. We all know that the census to be carried out every ten years is the mirror of a country. But it is not only a mirror, but also a justification for the tasks carried out in the past, and it is also an indispensable source of information for future government tasks. On the basis of the opinion of our Commission, it is appropriate that the provision of data should not be voluntary, but mandatory. It is also necessary to assess the nationalities living in Hungary in terms of the tasks related to the system of national minority self-government and the definition of the future budget, since the legitimacy of the national self-governments is given by the fact that we know by number how many of us as Hungarians belong to a nationality. Nationalities living in Hungary not only want to take advantage of the opportunities given by their membership of a nationality, but they want to make good use of it, thus preserving the language and cultural values that have been passed on to us. Data on nationality are also necessary for the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. also to carry out tasks related to the establishment of national minority electoral districts and the promotion of Roma integration. In view of the fact that the bill is 2. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 provides that technical solutions shall be used for the data recorded in the 2021 census, which automatically produces the pseudonymisation of data at the moment of recording, and that there is no risk of a clear commitment by the respondents to a nationality, or even to a number of nationalities. There is no question about the statement in the detailed justification of the bill that language knowledge is an important part of society's intellectual capital. The question of language skills is traditionally part of the census programme. There is currently no other data source available to provide full information on language skills. This is why the bill 3. As regards the voluntary reporting of information on the mother tongue set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1, the question raised in the committee was that the provision of information could also be made compulsory in respect of the mother tongue. T/3609 discussed by the Parliament Bill No. 4 § 6 states that during the preparation and implementation of the 2021 census and the processing of data, I was almost lost in the line of KSH. [[Defiance.]] Paragraph 2 states that during the preparation and implementation of the 2021 census and the processing of data, I was almost lost in the line of the KSH (Development). , to the left, thus working closely with representatives of ethnic and religious communities and people with disabilities. As it is regulated at the legal level by the local and the district-government notary in the capital, as well as by certain institutions, the well-defined and clearly defined range and tasks of the head of the institute, we thank and welcome the legislative drafting of the involvement of the various interest representatives, in particular representatives of nationalities. The Committee considers that the bill ensures the processing of personal data in a way that makes it inconclusive to which data subject the personal data relates, and by taking technical and organisational measures, so that it cannot be linked to an identified or identifiable natural person. [[12.30]] In our view, there is no risk of direct or indirect discrimination, and in addition, pseudonymisation is the European Parliament and Council 2016/679 on the basis of the specific action. It fully respects the right to the protection of personal data and ensures the fundamental rights and interests of data subjects, as set out in Regulation No 13 of the European Parliament and of the Council. We have found that membership of nationality can be proudly undertaken in Hungary today, the extension of the reporting obligation to this category may be justified, as Hungary is a multi-ethnic country. The Committee considers it important to say that the human resources needed to prepare and complete the 2021 census should be carefully selected and properly prepared so as not to cause maladministration in reporting agents in relation to the provision of either mandatory or voluntary data. As a minority advocate and as a private person, I feel that today I can take on my Gypsy origin in Hungary, but not only can I take on it, but it is also my moral duty to take on it. In addition, it is very important for the Roma catch-up to develop an accurate statistical picture during the census. The 13 nationalities living in Hungary have received from the current government levels of national minority support and support increases, moral respect and acceptance, which may well be a legal basis for the proud commitment of all people living in Hungary to belong to a nationality. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary joins the detailed discussion of the bill and proposes any amendments. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-28-60	Thank you, Mr Felix Wolf. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2018-11-28-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps not surprisingly, as a representative of the Hungarian German Government for 22 years, I would like to add two fundamental points to the collection of data on ethnicity. On the one hand, I can respectfully support what you have just said on behalf of the committee on nationality, saying that, as we have had the experience of counting so far, that many times, because it was not compulsory to answer questions about nationality, the questioners have not reached, I am sorry to say, on paper to these questions. The basic experience of national national minority authorities is that there is likely to be significant progress here if we also consult these data on a mandatory basis. However, I also share the concerns that my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Farkas, has already spoken about. After all, I have been through the debates that, obviously due to historical involvement, the Germans in Hungary during the 1941 census, where the data of the KSH was unlawfully handed over to the Ministry of the Interior. In this case, I think, and here I refer to my fellow Member Mr Lőrinc Nacsa's positive opinion on the positive changes that the ethnicity series, especially the Hungarian Germans, increased in the 2001 and 2011 censuses, but this was precisely because of anonymity. I would think it would be worth it here, in addition to the obligation to question the data, to retain it and to keep it in the other sensitive data the kind of anonymity that, in our opinion, will give the government very important aggregated data, all the bodies and all the researchers who are interested in this data. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-62	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Member of the KDNP.
u2018-11-28-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree, but as has been said by the Secretary of State and my fellow lead speaker, Dávid Héjj, the system immediately pseudonymizes the data received, immediately anonymizes and is processed, so it cannot be linked to people. I pressed the button because I would like to reject Gergely Arató's basically every sentence that was facial toaster, outrageous and outrageous. Since they can't do it here, I'd like to protect the heads of the Statistical Office. [[Hey, David, Adam's applauding.]] who have done a high level of professional work and have done so in recent years. I think it is shameful that they, who cannot answer this debate, are being attacked and insulted. No wonder you, like your spiritual ancestors, are attacking churches and denominations the same way we've gotten used to it. Your leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, told me that he would get the priests out of school, take back the schools from the churches. I think that this attitude is currently unacceptable here in Parliament, and we hope it will never be. I don't want to give political advice to the Democratic Coalition, but we should listen to people's opinions. We have just heard the opinion of the minority committee on the issue of nationality, the advocates and representatives of the 13 indigenous national minorities sitting here, and they give the views of nationalities; and we have also heard the opinion polling that 85 percent of people are not disturbed by their names. You have also said how dangerous this is, and we are no longer building democracy. Congressman! The name also appears in connection with fascist dictatorships such as the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Norway, Estonia. So this is the normal procedure in all other Member States of the European Union, and we would like to return to that. So I think your speech will have to be set in parentheses here and we will continue our work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-64	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give you the floor for two minutes to Congressman Dávid Hey, Fidesz.
u2018-11-28-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to join my fellow Member Nacsa, and Mr Arató, if you do this for a moment, I would like to ask you to understand that, in the heat of the debate, you wanted to insult us, and I think that this is in our profession. But the president's wife and all of her colleagues, who are present at the HCSO, have been offended by the statement of census fraud. I'd like to ask you to apologize for that. I have come to know you that this has come up only in the heat of debate, and I ask you very kindly to do so for our sake and for the sake of the HCSO. I understand that you wanted to hurt us, you wanted to insult us, I think that's okay, we have to accept that, but I think that the lady and the co-workers of the President, who are probably following this debate on TV, are not [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What TV?]] I think that could undermine your entire job. Sorry, through the app. Excuse me, Congressman. Excuse me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-66	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-11-28-67	Mr President, Dear House, I welcome the opportunity to comment orally on what has been said. I agree with a lot of it. At the same time, I would like to note that the painful lack of television broadcasting could have been useful not only during this debate, but also during last night's disputa, which included a brutal amendment to the Code of Work. Moreover, Parliament TV, which, after the regular public service mediation, took on the task of broadcasting what had happened here, has ceased to exist. We basically ended up in an ivory tower for these reasons. I think this has created a disadvantage for all parties, and we should also consider this. Locked in parentheses. Excuse me, I'll open another parentheses. I am very unhappy with the way it is said on behalf of my fellow members in favour of the Government that any fellow Member should have his or her words in parentheses, should not be made to happen, should not talk about it. Even if I don't agree with him, because I really don't agree with him. But having anyone's right to freedom of expression in this House is unacceptable. I do not agree with many of the things that have been said, and I would like to mention them; I would obviously prefer to come to the proposal, but the right to speak in opposition has not been taken out in the roughest way today, and we have heard some amazing statements about this during last night's debate, to be rejected every time. I mean, right now it's just the ghost out of the bottle, and then you're gonna start other processes. This has happened in history on countless occasions, if we do not resist it now, then this will certainly end invisibly. I would like to capitulate you on this very, very important bill to embrace the proposals made by our lead speaker, Gergely Farkas. Here I would like to think about facilitating the online filling. [[12.40]] CHAPTER XXI We live in the 20th century, it would be expected not only for small Hungarian businesses, but also in this case, to be able to do 100 percent of their administration by using, say, mobile phone applications. We have talked about the Statistical Office, its President, its excellent colleagues, whom I respect very, very much, and I very much welcome them, because on many occasions I have referred to their statements, and I have not been able to express any meaningful criticism of their professional work in recent years. Two things, yes; one is that budget support should be increased where appropriate. We have also put forward an amendment to this issue, as I see, let us say, the demographic struggle that KSH is also fighting and it produces sobering, amazing series of data. Last time I bought an 18 edition of the Demographic Portrait in a bookstore, you don't sleep the same way you did before you read it. I would very much like to see professional debates on this basis taking place in this House much more widely and further, if all Members were to receive this publication, let us say, at the expense of this House, it would certainly help the professional work, but this is true of many other publications on similar topics. At the same time, if we are talking about how KSH works, how it is forced to work, let us light this up through an example. If we look at the number of employees, Fidesz-KDNP is fond of referring to the fact that since 2010 it has believed that it has increased the number of people working by 550 or 600 thousand, but this includes three factors, including tens of thousands of student workers, a smaller proportion of Hungarian people working abroad and public employees. There are international standards of measurement that the Hungarian office takes over as a result of coercion, but therefore the situation may arise, and once again, it is not the fault of the KSH, it is not the fault of the professionals, but it is a factual situation that the student worker working one hour per week may be in the same line as the one who saves lives for 8-10 hours. I'm not saying that we should differentiate between the social usefulness and value of the work we've done, I'm not saying that, but I'm saying that if we put them in the same line, it distorts judgment, so I'd like to see at least some sort of breakdown of everything. And I think the same for a census that there are many areas where these questions could be detailed or even more detailed. What do I mean? In terms of housing, which I consider to be one of our biggest social crises, I would like, for example, to overthrow the government's misconception in my view that the Hungarian people are specifically interested in own property, so let's say that the CSOK should be expanded without any borders. Of course, it would be worth it, I support it, but at the same time I would like to convince the government that a Hungarian youth would much rather start his life with his partner and have a child here than to move abroad and work there because of the priceless nature of the property, because this is a typical Hungarian life situation. I would like to capacitate you to measure these phenomena, to measure these processes, where appropriate, by introducing new measurements, new measurement systems, or by entrusting professionals to capacitate the introduction of such phenomena. So let us finally listen to the profession, not to parliamentists, and respect the exception, but not necessarily to competent or non-statistic politicians to decide on these issues. I myself have listened to statistics in two different higher education institutions, but I would remain very far from speaking professionally on this issue. I can formulate a political position, the essence of which is to let professionals work, and my fellow Member, with regard to the measurement of emigration, I understand that a convenient government reference to say that last year's emigration spiral seems to have turned around and more people come home than people have left, but who is watching this movie, like us Hungarians, so standing on the ground of reality, knows very well that none of this can be true or statistically true. If you look at the typical emigration situations, I'll tell you one thing: let's say that the foreign currency loan here or now is a forint loan, but because of the priceless nature of the foreign currency loan, someone is travelling abroad to work in a slaughterhouse so that they can make their payment from their salary there. In many cases, Mr President, he meets with situations of life that are not accompanied by a full notification process, where appropriate, he does not terminate his home residence, and I am talking not only about commuters, who also form a broad social group, but there are many who do not even eliminate their social rights, and many people are forced to work without notice abroad. I'm not saying that this is a good thing, I'm saying that it would be good to change this in a positive direction, but it's still a phenomenon, and it's not necessarily possible for statistics to represent any similar typical life situation. So I think it is a huge, fatal mistake to draw conclusions like yours from all of this, because of this, it is a delusion that Hungary is not really such a problem, while the emigration spiral is brutal. I understand your position, how many people have migrated out of the region in a percentage, and fortunately Hungary is not in the forefront, and I acknowledge that, so there is no debate between us, we are not opposed, I just say that if we argue that one patient dies immediately on the operating table, and the other patient just has to cut off his leg, no one has benefited from it, so this is not a win-win situation. I would like to make it clear that without restricting Hungarian citizens, because it is the 21st century. In the century, we do not want to bind anyone to a clot, we should use motivations, and we could make sure that anyone who wants to do well at home can do well here. What would that take? For example, a public housing program. If we wanted to do this and perform it with normal execution, we could go much deeper in such a survey and not stick to it for a very long time, but on this we could build a rent-apartment program with Hungarian contractors, eliminating supply scarcity in the real estate market, settling not only real estate prices, certified Hungarian entrepreneurs and raw materials, but also bringing the entire industries back to Hungarian life or breathe life into them. We would have many opportunities, but we need normal measurements, normal conclusions, and that is equally true for a census. So I think that there is no sane person in this room who would accuse KSH of any incompetence in these circles, but I must say to you that, in terms of emigration, there is something to say that someone can provide accurate numbers and draw an accurate balance from it, far from professional. And I am also arguing with Eurostat, not with its methodology, not with the organisation, not with its professionalism, but with the fact that certain social processes cannot be quantified. This leaves room for a very simple conclusion, and this is that these processes may take place differently in real life than they do at the level of numbers. I would also like to encourage the government side to, say, be much braver in terms of the various measurements of the demographic area, to pool much greater budgetary resources here, because, in the midst of a demographic winter, the greatest responsibility is for us when we try to intervene in these conditions of life, but the intervention requires accurate assessment and accurate data. That is why I encourage you to accept what my fellow Member has said. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-68	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Keresztes, LMP.
u2018-11-28-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is a pleasure to hear that the tone of the debate is beginning to return to that style or to style frames that might be appropriate for such a question. But I can also say that many opposition contributions have already been made, I agree with a significant part of the criticisms, there are some criticisms I disagree with, there are some concerns that I do not share, and there are some statements that I cannot agree with again. Overall, I can tell you that it is not certain that if some opposition representatives were a little over-excited, it would be the opposition's fault or the fault of the opposition representative. I believe that this mistrust, which is felt not only by the opposition to the government, but also by society, is essentially attributable to the government. So you played that trust, and that's why there's also a relatively heated debate going on about a census, a 2021 census between Parliament's walls. The LMP fully supports and fully supports the described directions and professional directions, and will support this bill, it is obviously extremely important that the census can take place within the appropriate framework and effectively. We talked about the specific processes that this will highlight. I can also say that it is likely, however the survey takes place, that it will provide astonishing numbers, for example, on the extent of migration, and, by the way, the emigration, which is very much linked to the activities of the Orbán government, which was re-established in 2010, but we will also see shocking data on the situation in the countryside, the situation of small settlements. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is not a way to wait for the census to be carried out and the likely results to be used for government action in about four years' time. So these problems should not be denied now, and the government should act, because if we see in four years' time concrete numbers produced by the HCSO about the extent of the emigration, it does not mean that in four years' time the government should finally acknowledge the weight of this problem. [[12.50]] Mr Nacsa also underlined the importance of having concrete data on emigration through the HCSO. I resented it, and I have repeatedly said that this government, along with Fidesz, KDNP, calls itself a national, and yet they do not take a position as a national when they deny the problems of emigration. There are times when it is said that there are countries where there is a higher rate of emigration, so they are basing on the national tragedy that is happening in our country, or they are saying that this is a normal process because the common labour market is working. However, what you said, Mr President, is not correct in many ways. You claimed, on the basis of Eurostat data, that the trend had reversed and that more people would return home than the number of people going away. This was, by the way, established by Mr Z. Kárpát, and I think that he has properly explained why such statements should not otherwise be made on the basis of statistical data, but I would also like to say that, overall, Eurostat figures do not show this in numerical terms. So what you've said here, Congressman, is untrue, within the walls of the Parliament. These statistics show that there has actually been an increase in returnee rates. So there has been an increase in the proportion and number of people returning, and the number of emigrants has decreased in recent years. But yet, there is a huge difference between the two numbers, so it remains very serious, many thousands of the losses that Hungarian society suffers every year, and there are obvious consequences for the government, which has the potential and the obligation to act on the processes, not only not to act, but also to deny the weight of the problems. This also underlines the importance of having clear data on the exact extent and extent of the damage caused by this terrible wave of emigration. And I'd like to point out one more thing. Several of my fellow pro-government Members and fellow opposition Members have also talked about the fact that the name will now be recorded here in the course of the survey in a procedure that ensures anonymity immediately during the survey, thus providing a specific pseudonymisation. I was also pleased to read the statistics that more than 80 percent of those interviewed in a preventive poll do not consider it a rejection to give their name in such a survey. However, I believe that this is a cause for concern, however, that this procedure is thus expanding with new elements compared to the last two censuses, because this lack of confidence is not only characteristic of opposition representatives or opposition politicians or opposition parties, but it is indeed involved in Hungarian society, precisely in relation to abuses, the Kubatov lists and procedures that the Hungarian government can blame. This is quite clear that the Hungarian government operates networks as a kind of power technology tool and uses them to apply its power-technical goals, and this is well-known in Hungarian society. So mistrust is real. I fear that if you are unable to incorporate sufficient guarantees into the system and you cannot communicate these guarantees properly, this could be a very serious distortion in the course of the survey. I believe that the online recruitment method itself may also strengthen these fears; that data recording is done online, that the name must be recorded there, or that the citizen himself or the interviewer will record this, and that if it is not quite clear to everyone that the pseudonymisation takes place at the moment of recording, this may distort the results of the census, if any. I would therefore like to draw attention overall to the fact that you have indeed betrayed the confidence of the Hungarian people in this regard, and it is a very serious task in the next period, particularly before the start of the survey, to regain this confidence at some level in such a way as to guarantee everyone that this survey will not involve such threats, and anonymity, anonymity, can be ensured in this way. So you have a very serious job to do in this regard. But I would add that, overall, we do not consider this to be an exclusion condition on a professional basis, and the LMP will, of course, support the bill. Thank you.
u2018-11-28-70	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr János Volner.
u2018-11-28-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start with a short detour in response to my fellow Member Nacha. It is not my place to decide, and I do not think to any of the Members who win the scumbag race between the parties of the Parliament. Right now, I've got Jobbik and the governing parties pretty much side by side. One sends paparazzi to the other political party, and the other sends a private letter to Tamás Sneider and Márton Gyöngyösi through a journalist close to them. None of these are gentlemen's characteristics, and I think we should go beyond these things and finally deal with professional issues. In this competition, I think we're in a draw right now. It is important to see that what Gergely Farkas mentioned here in connection with the online filling is 1. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 provides that it is also possible to fill in online. By the way, I agree with the proposal that mobile phone applications could be used in the census itself. I think it is very important that the census can focus attention on issues of major social importance and problems, and here I would also like to draw the attention of the ruling party to the fact that, although, in general, opposition representatives are obviously concerned by their sitting positions about the data they may have in the possession of the state and other data controllers, it is very important to see that even more detailed data may be needed in order to learn more clearly about the functioning of Hungarian society and some of its problems. I would, therefore, not primarily narrow down the range of data, but suggest to the government that, even on a territorial basis, focusing on certain regions, it would be worth further exploring the situation in particular on certain economic, educational and health-related issues, so that we can understand the root causes of the problems and come up with the right solutions. If you think now that Hungary has seven NUTS 2 regions, there are four geographical regions out of our seven regions that belong to one of the 20 poorest regions in Europe, consider that half of the population lives in Hungary in one of the 20 poorest regions in Europe, and the majority of the country's territory belongs here. I think it is very important to find a solution to exactly what is affecting these regions. Here it is not a political response at a general level, but a very precise response, either to micro-regions or to settlements. First, we need to understand the problem, then we need to develop answers to improve these areas that are lagging behind. I would like to know, for example, what exactly the relationship between the economy and education is, how closely the two are in line with each other in Hungary, and what experience there is, for example, in connection with various catching-up programmes. And here I would also protect my fellow Members from illusions. Recently, in the context of a large-scale aid scheme, a long-term African aid scheme, it was found that the funds for catching up did not bring the desired results. The professional press, primarily the English language press, is now beginning to infiltrate Hungary with the news about this in detail, uncritically supported by the world's most famous people, but it has not led to results. And I see the same thing here, and I also thank the Roma ethnic advocate for adding yours. Here Roma integration is also mentioned in the proposal, with the use of today's languages. I would consider it very important for us to understand exactly where the shoes are tightening and what solutions should be developed in this area. If I am thinking that for more than 300 billion forints a year, the public work system that guaranteed could not help Gypsy could not provide substantial help, it could provide a symptomatic treatment, but it could not get the masses of Roma into the primary labour market: we need to find a solution to this, and it must offer a solution to the Hungarian Parliament, because this will certainly not be possible. To think, even in the second cycle of the Orbán governments, after 2010, Zoltán Balog said this from a ministerial seat that at that time, according to the situation at that time, there was 89 percent unemployment among gypsy men. Before the change of regime, this social group was significantly absorbed by the socialist major industry and the rural economy. How can these people be highlighted from that situation? Why are public works not working? Forgive me, I'm bringing you my own microregion as an example. 13 years ago, I moved out of Budapest, and I saw, for example, in the Csemő settlement, which I lived in, this belongs to the Cegléd constituency, still Pest county, the edge of Pest county, to use the people working in the public works system for completely meaningless work. [[13.00]] I'll give you an example: rural people, everyone knows how a tractor works and how effective it is, and then they'll assign public workers. [[Showing his arm:]] With such scissors to kill acacia plants and crooked trench beaches. It's pointless! A man's work force can be used more intelligently, more productively. When we listened to the head of the Ministry of Interior responsible for the public works system at committee level and asked him the question, which was naturally the result of what the public works system produced in the field of property and other matters, he said that we did not know, Mr Volner, because we did not measure this. Think about it. We spent more than 300 billion forints on maintaining the public works system, the government even explains that this is not a social measure, it is a work, but we do not measure the product of the work. I'm sorry, how's that? And what I'm saying is that if we want to understand why gypsyism is struggling in this situation and we want to help it, then in the first place, we need a truly functioning public service system that can lift this layer out of its present misery, making it a useful, valuable member of society. From the example of my own village, I can tell you that if the local gypsies were to produce the food that they eat with their families and that the children in kindergarten, the residents of the retirement home, and the people working in public offices would eat the food that these gypsy people produce with honest work, then that gypsy person would feel as a rightful and useful member of society. Because it's not a waste of work, it's not a waste of work on a ditch, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work, it's a waste of work. By doing so, you can gain social respect, which, by the way, must naturally touch a working person, at least in a Meritocratic society. So I think it is very important that we move forward in this area, and I would like to thank Felix Wolf once again for his contribution in this area. It's in our mutual interest. I would like to ask the government and the authorities of the KSH present to examine the root causes of the problems in a more detailed survey, whether on a territorial basis or at micro-region or municipal level, because we in this House, in this semi-circle-shaped horseshoe, must find solutions to these problems and create laws that can help the problem. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2018-11-28-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one has made any further comments, and I therefore close the general debate and give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary.
u2018-11-28-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Firstly, I would very much like to thank you for your constructive contributions from the opposition benches, and I take note of my tolerance for destructive contributions. But I would like to thank you very much for not continuing the obstructive strategy that you had here last night in the debate to read the text of the legislative proposals. These were the last opposition speeches in the overnight debate yesterday. I can't imagine anything more depressing and destructive than Hungarian parliamentarism, so thank you very, very much to everyone who has spoken constructively to the debate today. I think there's been quite a few of those speeches. If I may, I would like to respond to a few things. On the one hand, on the other hand, it has been repeatedly said from the opposition's side that the extent of migration is a matter or a matter of debate. I believe that this statement needs to be clarified, because it may be the subject of political debate between political parties, and there are even political parties that build an agenda, a political agenda for this, but in fact it is not a debate in the professional and scientific context, because we can make quite clear and serious, professionally subjugated findings in this matter; even if, obviously, international migration statistics are quite uncertain. You can say and these figures, that the number of emigrants is falling in Hungary, there are 15 percent fewer people gone than last year, and in 2017, the number of returnees has been increasing since virtually 2014. In 2017, 9 percent more came back than in 2016. Now we're talking about a trend turn. Moreover, it is true that emigration affects all the Member States of the Central European Central and Central European region, but in this respect Hungary's situation is relatively good. For example, in Romania, Poland, the rate of migration is above 10 percent, while in Hungary it is below 5 percent. And by the way, if we are talking about emigration rates, I am sorry that I am talking about this in such detail, only I had a previous job on this subject, we can talk about three major emigration waves: on the one hand, after the change of regime, it is completely understandable, I think we all understand what this was about; on the other hand, after EU accession, when labour markets opened up. I think that this is also understandable, and I would go so far as to say that I would not in itself impose this on the socialist-free democratic government, which was then Regent, as opposed to the next wave of emigration, which was quite clear after the economic crisis in 2008-2009. To do this, only one geler occurred after the Orbán government came into power. After joining the EU, the German and Austrian labour markets opened up in 2011 to Hungarian workers. It has always been a traditional market for Hungarian workers, so this is obviously published in the statistics, but as I said before, this trend seems to be turning around. It can now be said that it is quite clear that this direction is turning around, and this is due precisely to what we have said to Mr Z. Carpath: the so-called motivations. He used that term. Let me give you two such motivations, which I think there is no better motivation than: in the third quarter of 2018, there is a 5 percent economic growth. Five percent economic growth! And last year, I round up almost 13 percent, and I apologize for that, with almost 13 percent real wage rise. These are two motivations where we can't get a better motivation right now. The government's plan is to go this way. Moreover, with regard to the survey of foreigners, I can say that it is necessary to define the scope of the survey according to international standards and in accordance with them. They will be recorded in the single statistical area of the European Union, where they live, and the data relating to them can be collected by the Hungarian State in an international exchange of data. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I'd like to move on to the next point. That name is recorded. I will live with simplification, so forgive me, but to make it clear to everyone: there are countries, there are 11 European Union countries where there is a census, I will show, I will demonstrate, and I will use a simplification [[Showing the button on the table with your finger:]] That's exactly how it goes. For the record, I'm going to record that I've shown you that you're pressing a button. So in 11 European countries, the census works by pressing a button and it doesn't cost anything. Because databases managed and operated by the State are in such a state and are linked, of course, while respecting the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, that the system can produce a complete census result. [[13.10]] When I came here for this debate, I thought that opposition representatives would blame the government on why we couldn't do this. 'Cause I think it's the 21st. We are thinking in modern, innovative, competitive Hungary in the first century, and that would be the goal that should be achieved, and then all the questions that have been asked here would no longer be a question of how much it costs, because it would not cost anything, because citizens would not be destroyed by this whole thing. I understand, Mr Arató, that he lacks the need to torment citizens by personally receiving an interviewer in their home and giving a lot of time beyond their work, in the home, in their families, to answer these complex questions and to fill out a complex questionnaire, but I think that citizens should not be humiliated in this, and then we can talk to Mr XXI. It is competitive in Hungary in the century if we can achieve this. I hope not in 2021, but the next census will be based on this logic and approach, and this will require that we meet the necessary but insufficient basic conditions in the 2021 census. That's what this is all about. It's only by electronic means. This wasn't the case before. There is, on the one hand, the online filling in, and, on the other hand, the personal data is also recorded online by electronic means, where the interviewees record the data collected on tablets. And just this electronic recording method makes it possible to contrast with previous censuses when you had to write the answers on paper that personal data protection can be guaranteed. So I would rather ask the opposition representatives to take advantage of their quality by encouraging the government to submit proposals for amendments that are intended to finally be made to the 21st century. In a hundredth way, in the way that the census is done in other European countries, such a census can be carried out. And those speeches of a political nature, which are actually about going back to the methodologies of a hundred years and twenty years ago, I would like to propose, once and for all, with deep respect, that we forget. Clearly, opposition representatives did not know much about how it could be that if there is this political claim that there is a mistrust of the government in Hungary, how is it that 85 percent of people are not disturbed by the fact that the name should be given? That's precisely what I said, because what bothers people is that this census is still taking place on paper, with questioning commissioners, and they say that if it means less bureaucracy, less humiliation, to give the name and thus create the prerequisites for this whole thing to work professionally at the next census, they will give the name. So the mistrust they are talking about is not there, and people's expectations are contrary to that. And that is exactly what we, on the part of the government, are trying to meet, and that is what the bill before this House is all about. I would very much like to thank the speaker for his contribution. I can inform you here of the fact that I personally share your position and the committee's position on the specific data and on the data relating specifically to belonging to nationality. I also think that there would be a mandatory set of data on both religion and nationality, but as shown in the attached diagram, this is not so in the bill. I represent a minority opinion at the moment, which, of course, I take note of, but in this matter, the government can do nothing but say that it leaves this question to the wisdom of the high Parliament. I'd like to keep going, if you'll excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr Gergely Farkas, for your suggestions on motivation to fill in online, with which I also agree to a great deal, and so I can say that the Government agrees with this, and even the Hungarian Central Statistical Office agrees. As Secretary of State in charge of this area, I have had specific discussions on this matter. These will be motivational elements to promote online filling. It is a legal, codification question, isn't it, whether it is worth setting this by law at the level of the bill? I think that this is something that does not need to be laid down by law, but I can inform you that the government's goal and intention is to make the most use of the possibility of filling in online, more than in 2011. This number, I believe, was mentioned by you or your fellow Member. And I can also inform you that there will be a mobile application as planned, but I think that we should also take into account the principle of deregulation, I do not think that the proposal for mobile application should be laid down in a law. The costs; just a brief comment on the costs. Moreover, overall costs are lower than in the 2011 census. However, I said at the beginning that we are in the same place as in 2011, because the costs that have increased serve to switch to this electronic data collection. Therefore, for example, KSH has to obtain tablets that were not available in 2011 and that can be used to collect personal data. So I can think that if these so-called one-off items are accounted for, please understand, then otherwise I can report to you constantly decreasing costs, and our plan is that, in the case of the next referendum, these costs will be much lower, precisely because of the completion of the electronics project I mentioned earlier. Finally, I would really like to return to the speeches which, in one way or another, have tried to undermine the legitimacy of the census. I think that someone should belong either to the pro-government side or to the opposition side, quite simply does not serve the interests of Hungary if there are speeches in Parliament that call into question the legitimacy of the census on political grounds and political interests. Because if the opposition is serious about its constant demand for a serious, well-founded, scientific, professional work and debate in Parliament, the data produced by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is explicitly required, and one of the first places is specifically the data collected by the census. So it is not possible, on the one hand, to keep track of the professional data-based political debate in the House and, on the other hand, to undermine the legitimacy of the institution that otherwise provides these data to Members of Parliament. So I would, with great respect, suggest that we end this trend together. And once again, I would like to thank you for the speeches made not from such motivation, but from constructive contributions and proposals. I recorded these. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on government administration until closure. Government referral T/3610. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[13.20]]
u2018-11-28-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Looks like I'm on the line now, so I'm sorry I'm wasting your time. I would like to continue on another very, very important subject, on the bill on government administration, and then respond to the speeches that have been made at the end. The purpose of the bill now under discussion by the Parliament is to reduce bureaucracy and promote family-friendly turnarounds in the public sector, in particular at central and territorial levels, in addition to creating an efficient and modern administration. The government aims at an accountable, responsible, neutral, professional XXI. The operation of a 100th-century public administration, which I believe is a very important principle, not a barrier to the country's competitiveness, but rather a catalyst for the turn of competitiveness. Zoltán Magyary, an internationally renowned Hungarian professor of public administration, once said that the task of public administration is to act, and in this he was very right. If we are thinking in an active, efficient, strong public administration capable of supporting and operating the state, then it is necessary, but not sufficient, to provide a prerequisite for this is a XXI. It is a 100th-century performance conditionality and the economy, a wage matching with the performance of the entire real economy, and then it is possible to set quality standards against this system, i.e. the system of public administration. By the way, our basis is that we only need as many public servants as are necessary for the efficient functioning of the state, but these professionals must receive competitive wages. For this reason, and in addition, the government would like to operate a system in which bureaucracy will not be re-produced. This set of conditions is also served by the bill before us. Where did we start? Our assessment of the situation is that, during the 2002-2010 governance period, the public sector and public administration were in the field of privatisation, outsourcing and management contracts, so we are actually talking about a bureaucracy in a disparate, good sense. The rights and benefits which gave rise to the dignity of the public administration and which served as a basis for accountability have been removed. Interestingly, but the international literature also says that this always goes hand in hand with the fact that dissipation of the authority of the administration and the classic administrative values and the disregarding of it always involve increasing bureaucracy. That's what we saw here. Between 2002-2010, the public administration was overgrown and operated with a complex system of organisations, i.e. a poor-quality, incompetent and bureaucratic state against the citizens themselves was inherited in 2010 by the Orbán government. We have tried and tried to change this in several steps. Firstly, this is important, let me put it here in parentheses: the number of politicians has decreased in the Parliament and at the level of local governments, and on the other hand, trust against citizens had to be restored. Let me tell you a classic case. It's a classic case where clients go into an office to deal with cases where the authorities ask them for information that's available to another office. In fact, in this logic, customers may not expect the authority to deal with their cases, but should mediate as a client in the communication between the authorities. I can't imagine a more depressing system. That is why we have established government offices, which are united in overseeing all branches of the territorial administration, and that is why we have also created district offices and government windows. There are now more than 300 government windows that are suitable for a front office, so it is suitable to meet the state through a one-stop shop, and otherwise the underlying communication between the public authorities is provided by the single system of organisations. In addition, we also want and have constantly renewed the staff of the public administration. The data show that a rejuvenation started after 2010. Highly skilled young workers have flown into the system, bringing in a new approach. Let me talk to you a little bit, this is also my area: this is what the establishment of the National University of Public Service is all about, and the strengthening of which is the most important task of providing a quality replacement base, and the administrative scholarship programme would also serve this purpose, which, in the near future or I can say, we would like to give a new impetus in the present. This bill pays off an old debt. From January onwards, the wages of government officials working in central administration will increase by an average of 30 percent. The good performance of the Hungarian economy has been a prerequisite for this wage increase for many years. As I mentioned, we experienced economic growth above 4 percent last year. The prospects for this year are even better, and we hope that we can count on similarly favourable macroeconomic data for next year. This good real economic performance has also brought about a period of wage increases. Since 2010, real wages have increased by 36 percent in the private sector, the minimum wage has increased by 88 percent and the minimum wage by 50 percent. In order to maintain or increase public competitiveness and the competitiveness of the state and to be able to operate an efficient public administration, these figures clearly show that a wage arrangement is needed. This wage arrangement took place in 2016 and 2017 in the territorial administration, i.e. in district offices and government offices, where payments also increased by 30 percent on average. However, there has been no increase in the central administration since 2008, so the last experience of those working in the central administration is that the Bajnai-Gyurcsány government is taking away their 13th month wage. We believe that in 2018, the country's economic performance and the performance of Hungarian citizens, allow wage increases to take place here, in this area, also in respect of these citizens. The bill also seeks to reflect the government's family-friendly policy. A separate chapter contains family-friendly measures. We would change the working order of family members, the system of supplementary leave, the period of notice, and we would also introduce additional benefits. The aim is to set a good example for employers by central administration and government administration. The family-friendly government administration bill therefore pays particular attention to family workers, as I mentioned. We would give you the opportunity for flexible work, part-time work, blocked work, remote work. In this context, it is also envisaged to increase the level of supplementary leave. For example, parental leave after the birth of a child will increase from five to eight days, and grandparents working in the central administration will be granted a supplementary leave. They'd be entitled to five days. First married people get five days off. I think that this is also a step forward and, in the same way, in the case of children's children, child rearing would, in general, be included in the legislative proposal before this House. I think that, overall, it reflects the government's family-friendly philosophy and sends a good signal to employers as to how good practices are in order to give priority to Hungarian citizens and Hungarian workers raising children. I think that even if these signals are not financial incentives, they are not hard government tools, but rather soft government tools. As regards the need for a demographic turnaround that you have raised during the discussion of the previous bill, it is also often said that, in addition to financial incentives, tough incentives, soft incentives and the transformation of attitudes, in general, we should support the transformation of attitudes towards childbearing wherever possible in Hungary. On this basis, I ask you to support the wage-raising programme of government officials, the family-friendly transformation of the public sector, and our further move towards a competitive public administration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Becsó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2018-11-28-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have seen large-scale reforms in public administration in the period since 2010. In the eight years behind us, the organization and management system of the Hungarian administration has been set up on a new basis. During the transformations, the government was drawn from models based on foreign and private traditions, so that a modern public administration, which responds quickly to daily challenges, and which can cope smoothly and effectively with the large number of cases, would be established in our country. The aim of the bill before us is to improve Hungary's competitiveness by promoting more effective government work, while at the same time strengthening the financial prestige of government officials who are raising children and founding a family and working in government administration. Ladies and gentlemen, Government administration should function as a coordinated system of organisation. This is a fundamental requirement in well-functioning states. Effective government activity promotes the country's competitiveness. Recently, many international companies have chosen our country, which shows that we are moving in the right direction, but there is still room for improvement. It is therefore necessary to examine all areas where efficiency can be improved. This requirement includes systemic coordination, regulation and development of personnel activities. Systematic management should include rules on the status of personnel and on certain specific public service institutions, as well as uniform application of the law. It is therefore important to link parts of government administration with a view to improving the efficiency of administrative activity, as it is also known by administration and practice that the activities of isolated units are far less effective. The bill on the House's table seeks to regulate the bodies and officials of government administration, as well as the leaders responsible for the management of their activities, based on a paradigm shift, a holistic approach. I consider the introduction of code-based regulation to be a forward-looking concept, since it will make it easier for law enforcement bodies to carry out their tasks in the future as a result of clear and transparent regulation of the legislation in force in a law. Dear House, At present, a number of laws provide for the operation of the government and the status of government officials and their powers. However, with the adoption of the proposal, a uniform code of principles and basic institutions of the law would replace the legislation currently at different levels of legal resources and conflicting with each other. With this regulation, both the central and regional structures of the public administration would have a single legal framework for government offices and district offices. With oversized bureaucracy, the state's economic efficiency and performance will be reduced in a direct proportion. Following a comprehensive investigation, it was established that a certain level of bureaucracy was needed to be reduced. The draft would therefore provide for a realistic consideration of the fact that all government administrations can only employ as many government officials as are necessary for the performance of their tasks in a reasonable and economical manner. The establishment of the staff base is also intended to serve to make government operations more economical. [[He's sighing. Demercation in the benches of opposition parties. Bence of Turdai: We agree! Dr. Gábor Staudt: We think so too! We agree. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-28-78	Go on, Congressman, because you have the floor.
u2018-11-28-79	Yeah. I believe that the abolition of the Senior Progress System is outstanding, as the system would thus give real importance to benchmarking and would better encourage the younger generation, in particular through the possibility of achieving higher salaries. It should also be supported that higher salaries in the public sector are increasingly closer to the wages of the private sector, resulting in substantial wage increases within a short period of time, with good performance, for the citizen working in government administration. In addition, the proposal envisages tightening the rules on appointment and conflicts of interest. Finally, I think it should be stressed that the government's family-friendly policy also applies under the provisions of the proposal submitted by the government's intention to introduce family support for government officials, in addition to the other special benefits and benefits of government officials who have children and found a family. Dear Parliament, During the period since 2010, the Hungarian government has sought to establish an administrative system which is the 21st century of citizens. It is the best way to meet its needs in the first century. This bill will probably not be the last one to introduce reforms in the public administration. In the opinion of great lawyer Max Weber, without bureaucratic organisations, it is impossible to manage a mass-scale administration, but they can do it as quickly and as accurately as possible, at the same time cheaply and economically. The official carries out his work in a lifelike and professional capacity, which is why he deserves to be given the proper career opportunity and financial prestige of the state. Following consideration of these principles, needs and objectives, the proposed proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-28-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, What you have said, Mr Secretary, is indeed eligible, but this is not the only part of the proposal. So I do not want to argue with the things you have said, because they are indeed, especially the founding of a family and the support of the demographic situation in any way and even through public service workers, the maximum eligible objectives for which we offer all the assistance, but the proposal also includes a few steps backwards, and I will explain that, in addition to these steps, which we say is a step forward, the proposal also includes parallel steps which, in turn, make life, financial opportunities, or the right of the workers to leave. So I don't want to argue with what I said, what you said, but I want to tell you what the other half of the proposal is, which is not said here from the point of view of the author. Speaking of working time and support for families, I would like to say that raising working time to 12 hours a day without any special compensation, Mr. Secretary of State, is not a family-friendly solution, and although weekly working time would be 48 hours maximum, it is understandable that it is not possible to increase it to 12 hours every day, but 48 hours a week also means that these people would be more or will be away from their families. So, the setting of targets is okay, but I do not necessarily see this happening here at the day-to-day working hours. And to highlight, in this context, an otherwise only forward-looking proposal, and it has also been said that we are talking about camping, camping costs, organizing them, summer camps, where there is a minor child, again it is very good that the government will provide some kind of support, although, as I understand, this will be defined in a government decree. What this will look like, we cannot see the extent of it yet, but if the parents are worked to death in the office, it will obviously be for the benefit of the families again, but it will also be good to organise this camping to keep the parents working. We do not see in the proposal that the number of leaders will also be reduced. When we talk about cutting red tape, these proposals should not only always be affected by the average workers, but they should finally be described, formulated and implemented so that a change in the very difficult Hungarian bureaucracy can be made in this way. [[13.40]] 42 subjects are authorized to draft government decrees in the bill, which makes it quite clear that there will be a lot of areas and parts that we do not know yet, and that the government will be entrusted with filling them out, but in certain places, as I said, the directions are no longer good. And there are some places where they could be good, but it would have been better if the Secretary of State had said something about them. Then the rise in wages is not entirely clear whether everyone will rise in wages. As far as we could look into and examine each category, it is far from certain that everyone will benefit, and there will be many who will do worse. Those who, by the way, are getting paid, we welcome and welcome it, but we should have created a system for everyone to benefit from the adoption of this. Then, which is absolutely unacceptable, and I would like to underline this, because this is an important point in the proposal and can affect the workers - the possibility of dismissal on grounds of lack of merit. In addition, the possibility of firing law enforcement agencies in a similar way has been extended, and in other areas we see that the obligation to state reasons can often be fired either by neglecting or by failing to fulfil the obligation to fire workers or even those working in law enforcement bodies. Here, in this proposal, this will mean that if a person behaves in a manner suitable for the good reputation of the government administration that employs him, or I go on, the confidence in the good administration will be destroyed by what it is; I think it is no accident that such a rubber rule remains, because trust in a good administration, I have to say, whatever it is, well, anyone who does it will be able to be fired without hearing it, if it is not expected that this hearing will take place. So I think this is a very strong rule, and in addition, by avoiding the requirement of impartiality for public service officials, which means that, in some cases, such officials can be fired very easily, with reference to anything, even if they are posted on Facebook or other social media sites, in the future such officials can be fired. And in fact, they're going to do this on the basis of the law, and the court will find it very difficult to determine whether this was justified or not, because, as I said, the reference can be anything, so the court's way will be closed in this form, or will be formalised in relation to the people so fired. And then I'd also like to add that there's news from the D.A.'s office, even a specific case where an otherwise well-respected prosecutor has been fired, who is suing in the meantime, because he wrote a post in a closed group, which may have been a government critic. So I want you to build this system on this fear. If they did not want to do so, they would not want to do so, they would not bring such proposals to this House. Further to the restrictive measures: if someone leaves the government service, they can ban him for two years from being employed by companies operating in that sector. I find this a little strong, especially since I have not seen any explanation of the compensation involved in this case or the scope of its application. 'Cause let's say a top executive, say, in the case of a secretary of state or an assistant secretary of state, I'd say I understand that we're not letting him go to a big energy company in the area where he was, say, energetics. That's right, or that's perfectly acceptable. But to expect this from an administrator or middle manager, I think it's exaggeration, and yet again a restriction that has not been included in the legislation in this form. Then, in any case, as I said, at least at the level of the declared targets, it should be praised that pregnant, child-bearing officials are dealt with separately, but, as I said, in the case of working time and freedom, this does not always appear. Indeed, family support is a good thing, we must commend it, but it is one of the few forward-looking proposals. Then we also looked at the trade union opinions, because it is important what the trade unions say; it is important to us what the trade unions say about such a proposal, who cannot be said to be vehemently attacking the government with bloody throats, especially when it comes to proposals that are positive or even neutral to them. Trade unions also pointed out that these very many government regulations will contain more than 30 government regulations, which will contain the various authorisation provisions and have not yet been adopted, may cause legal uncertainty, or they resented the fact that the 2016 salary table will remain unchanged, so that the lower limit of payments will remain, and they specifically complained that there is no cafeteria, service and job-place recognition. It is particularly interesting that positions that are not uploaded for six months will simply be taken away and placed in the central job pool. This is interesting mainly because in many places there is a shortage of staff that is not filled because they do not want it, but because they simply cannot load it, and often they find it appropriate, for a fee that they offer applicants. If these posts are withdrawn after six months, they will make it impossible for these bodies to operate, especially planning for several years in advance, and then they will have to try to regain the positions they have never been able to fill as a donation. Perhaps it would be linked to this, or the solution would be to create better working conditions or better wages, and you would find workers in these positions. Trade unions emphasise that the possibility of replacement and replacement fees and redirection will be removed. We can't say that as a positive thing either. The proposal to remove interoperability between the level of manager and the level of administrator, which means in practice that if a leader's mandate has been terminated so far, he could remain an administrator at that office. In the future, if this proposal is adopted, this will mean that if someone's management mandate is terminated, then their labour law will also cease, so we do not consider it a good proposal, nor will it lead to a career model, will it create a vulnerable situation, or that everyone will try to stick to their leadership position more, because not only their leadership position but also their livelihood will depend on it, and not only in the present, but also in the future. I do not know whether this was put in this way, because then perhaps even requests from above will be better executed by the leaders because of vulnerability, but this aspect may also arise. Speaking of freedoms, Mr Secretary of State has said how good this is; indeed, it contains a few extra freedoms, but I have to say that all government officials will have a five-day reduction in their basic freedom as proposed, and the number of day offs would decrease by default. As Minister of State has said, in some cases it will grow, let us say, in the case of child birth, but this will hardly compensate for the fact that the fundamental freedom is being reduced or that the extra leave granted under other rights will also be much lower, so it will be reduced from 25 days to 20 days, as far as the fundamental freedom is concerned. Here are a number of examples, for example, for a government official working 15 years, who has had 35 days of freedom so far, on the basis of the draft, he will be reduced to 27, as he will lose 5 days of basic freedom and 3 days of supplementary leave. Of course, if you have a child every year, you can even grow it, but you can't expect that from anyone in the long run. [[13.50]] These are the main dilemmas in which it is difficult to pass the proposal or bet it. The problems raised are at least as serious as the one or two sub-areas that contain forward-looking proposals. And I must also say that it is not good in itself that, since 2010, this proposal will be introduced as the fifth law, to which officials who work in this sector will have to adapt. You can imagine that this means mastering five comprehensive proposals in nine years. Under these circumstances, it is very difficult to expect them to do everything, to spend overtime on declining freedoms and either non-increasing salaries, or to increase salaries, and to increase unpaid overtime at the same time. Mr Secretary, I think that the best way to do this is to revise this proposal if it is withdrawn and a ministerial meeting is convened. Then maybe we can put together a real forward-looking law. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We did not talk to Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, but I also brought a quote from Zoltán Magyary to the beginning, which says that the administration is not the power of individual people over others, but to achieve the common goals of national organisations, to meet their common needs. Public administration has no other means of existence, no other than the service of humans and the nation. I think it is very important that the Hungarian nation's strategic goals and administrative care related to everyday operation are an effective, professional, XXI. A accountable public administration system should be established in the first century. A very important milestone and proposal is the law before us. We know that, in recent times, between the salaries of government officials, people working within the ministerial framework and the salaries of private sector workers, the earnings scissors have been opened up a little more than they were lucky. I myself have been a government official in the administration and then I have been working as a political advisor in the past period, so I have seen at the same time the development that has resulted in a kind of efficiency with the reduction of bureaucracy, in line with the government's efforts, by setting up a system of government offices. On the other hand, I have to admit, I've also seen that with the coworkers, I've seen that the earnings scissors are a little bigger than the healthy ones. This trend is now being halted by the government and the capacity of the economy to benefit the public sector better than in previous years. We know that in the past, during the Gyurcsány government, there was an administrative reform, which was unsuccessful, and according to the SAO report, the aim was to keep the budget in check, and that reform took place without any strategy or prior impact assessments, and it turned out to be ineffective. The wages of people working in district offices and government offices have already increased significantly in recent years. I think it was an important repayment, an important debt that the government had solved. Now, the wages of those working in the central administration will increase by an average of 30 percent as planned by the government. This is also an important additional income for the families of those who work there, and it is therefore a welcome goal. I would not go into detail the measures which both Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member Becsó have already spoken about. As a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I would like to highlight family-friendly measures from the bill and focus on them in my speech as the lead speaker, which we consider to be extremely important and forward-looking. The proposal devotes a separate chapter to government officials raising and founding children, special entitlements, discounts and subsidies to them. Thus, the government will also introduce support for the establishment of government officials. The proposal continues to oblige the employer to employ a government official from the establishment of his or her pregnancy until the age of one year in health conditions. This also implies, where appropriate, an obligation to tender for the modification of the appointment. However, it is a guarantee rule that, in the event of an amendment, the salary of the Government official shall not be less than the previous salary. Where it is not possible to employ a government official in the state of health, the government official shall be exempt from the obligation to work. The government official is entitled to pay for the period of discharge from work, but it is an exception if the government official does not accept the job offered without good reason. It is proposed that the employer's powers to work at home may lay down different provisions in the Public Service Code for children up to the age of 10 years. A very important and forward-looking proposal, the introduction of a home office in the private sector, also in the central administration. On the basis of the proposal, for the purpose of contributing to additional expenditure on the establishment of a family, a government official may, on request, be granted, free of interest, on one occasion during the period of government service, taking into account the incomes of his spouse or partner, but not more than five times the minimum wage, a family establishment allowance may be granted. The proposal provides the government official once a year with a school start-up allowance, with regard to his/her child in public education, who is raised in his/her own household and who is entitled to a family allowance, the government official will also be entitled once a year to an education allowance per child in order to improve the life situation of families with children. Both parents of the child are entitled to these allowances if the parent is a government official living in a household with the child. Under the proposal, the government is entitled to support the summer holiday supervision and camping costs of its kindergarten or schoolchildren, to the extent and in the manner specified in the Government's separate decree. In my speech as the lead speaker, I devoted my time to this chapter, and I would highlight these, because, although all the other proposals presented by the Secretary of State are very important, at the same time, the family-friendly measures on the basis of which we hope that a family-friendly public administration will be established are of paramount importance to us. What is even more important is that as a kind of motivation, it can act as an incentive for other public companies, small, medium and large companies in the private sector, so that they can take on good practices, such good, positive elements from public administration that they themselves will be able to introduce in their own companies for the benefit of families. I hope that the state example will be sticky and that families raising children will be able to be supported elsewhere by companies. In recent years, family-friendly local government recognition has been created for a reason, where similar measures have already been introduced to a lesser extent, as well as family-friendly jobs and family-friendly company awards. Winning companies and companies proudly undertake to compete in this category and take important measures to improve the position of mothers and families raising children with these employers. On this basis, we find the proposal to be forward-looking. The KDNP fraction supports and I ask the other factions to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I said in my speech before last Monday's agenda, the title of which was that from public servants slaves, this bill is part of a package of government measures. Part of a slave package, one of which is only one of the points of Lajos Kósa's fantastic amendment to the Labour Code, the scandalous debate of which last night and until this morning took place here in Parliament. The other important part is this bill, the third important part is the Rias. , i.e. the BM proposal on law enforcement administrative staff, and the fourth part is the Ministry of Defence Haj. , that is, the package of laws on the status of defence employees, which last night, perhaps at some point half an hour or so, was discussed in this House, and the Rias. will be watched tonight by a few tens of thousands of people whose lives will be overturned in some month and a half, Mr. Secretary of State, and everything will be rewritten in relation to their lives and employment. [[In the notary seat Gergely Arató is replaced by Bence Tordai.]] Less freedom, that's what this law brings, Mr. Secretary of State. Increasing working hours, that is what this law brings, if someone on the human side is watching what you are doing, and not in terms of the state and its omnipotence and the fulfilment of its power, someone is paying attention to a law, and considers it effective or good, but perhaps looking at what this law will do for people living in this country, for people working here and for people subject to the law. [[14.00]] So, you're gonna give them reduced freedom, 5 days of basic freedom, and they're gonna reduce it by giving you a big family-friendly proposal that if you raise a child under 16 years of age, you're gonna get 4 back. So it's still going to be negative 1, if we understand this great proposal. I'm sure you'll make a lot of people's hearts beat. Dear colleagues are given increasing working hours and flexible work. 12 hours a day, 48 hours a week, and, of course, it is written into the law during working hours, of course, it tells everything about you, and during working hours also the leader is forgiven, lunchtime and rest periods, for example, during lunchtime at noon, he must be at the disposal of the leader of every small public servant considered to be slaves by Fidesz in the future. It's not lunchtime, if the boss calls, you gotta run, or you're fired right now. This law represents a total vulnerability for each employee, effectively introducing a system of command control in the administration of the state. Because anyone can be fired at any time in the name of a lack of merit. I'm going to look at the procedure for this for a longer time, let's just say that we don't have to listen to the government official, so that someone, like, anonymous, machine-written, gets a real report to their boss, and is already thrown out on the basis of a lack of merit. Of course, vulnerability and the regime of command will also be strengthened by the fact that there will be a completely arbitrary wage finding in these few categories, which is laid down in the new law. [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] Look at me, Secretary of State, you'll have an effective 100 percent margin for the manager to find out how much he'll pay in this regard. Based on what and how, I leave it to everyone's fantasies. According to the law, virtually every leader gives free hand to his own institution or to public administrations How much you pay; how I say it again, it doesn't come out. And in the midst of today's fidesz country, I trust everyone's imagination to see how this is really going to work. And then there's the evacuation of professionalism as a fundamental problem with this law. My fellow Members, I am sure you have all read this long law, that it is out of the rules on civil servants so far that the requirement of impartiality is removed. How do you do that, Mr. Secretary? Yeah, I get it. Honestly, we're adapting the laws to the real thing. Fantastic! What kind of government, what kind of central administration, what kind of administration is it where the legislator itself cynically takes away the existing rule, that it must not only be impartial in its proceedings but also appear to be a public servant. We strongly reject this bill. We feel very sorry for anyone who must serve under any of these laws in the future. The fact is, in our view, when these workers, public servants, law enforcement and defence workers wake up in January, February, there will be quite a sad situation when they look around. And by the time they understand what it feels like to lose freedom when they take away freedom at both the literal and the theoretical levels, when they take away professionalism, when they make it completely vulnerable to their direct and all kinds of leaders and subordinates, unfortunately, by then it will be too late. By the way, at the end of October this year, the government published in a government decree how many posts will be removed in the central administration. 'Cause let's not forget, this bill was preceded by a big fire wave in the public sector, and it's been reported that it took about a day or two to deal with everyone who was finally put on the street. Obviously, this has also been done in a humane and fair manner in all cases. This proposal is addressed to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with Article XI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On Thursday evening on the 15th of October, the trade unions sent it to the government, and on Friday 16th at 3 p.m. they were supposed to express the views of trade unions, workers and people, if I remember correctly, on a bill of at least 200 pages, a law that fundamentally defines the lives of at least 100,000 families. Obviously, they did this with the intent to do it, because you don't care at all what the people who will eventually be subject to this law think about it. It's no wonder that people working in central workplaces can be employed on a working time basis, with daily working hours of up to 12 hours, and weekly working hours, as I said, are 48 hours. This is in the proposal, which effectively justifies the overwork you have already done. It also justifies the fact that, on this basis, of course, extra money is not to be paid to those affected. The head of the administrative body may allocate the day-to-day working time in two instalments, only the condition that at least two hours of rest between the two periods shall be provided. The reasons for the proposal state that government officials are subject to a strict obligation of obedience, with more disciplinary and compensation responsibilities than average. This is about the one sentence that is honest and tells us what purpose this law was actually introduced to Parliament. Wages in each type of institution will vary on a broad scale on the basis of positions. At least 250 thousand forints can be returned by government advisors in the lowest category in the ministries and 1.9 million forints by the State Secretary of Public Administration. This also says a lot about you and your attitude. The top of the list is HUF 200,000 per month, with HUF 1 million at the top of the list in the main government offices and central offices. That too, obviously, will be decided by the leader who is worthy of which. On the grounds of worthlessness, as I said, it will be possible to dismiss anyone. The law on public service officials removes the requirement of impartiality. A number of strict ethical and legal requirements will apply to those affected, such as those who, outside their workplace, are able to engage in serious damage to the reputation of their government administration or to their trust in good administration. I don't know, Secretary of State, help me now if you happen to go out there and express your opinion that it's not enough to pay you, or, by the way, the abuse of a political or administrative leader's authority is unsustainable, whether it's damaging your reputation to the administration and whether the official can be fired or not. In this procedure, just to be fair, you don't have to listen to the official before he gets fired. I also quote that if, due to all the circumstances of the case, it cannot be expected from the public administration that this means, obviously the head of the public administration will decide between two coffees. In the future, however, this part of the law on public service officials, which is only a similar sentence of the law on the employees of local authorities, has been left out that the official, I quote, should not engage in any activity or conduct which would interfere with his impartial, uninfluenced activities. In Hungarian, you believe that in the future the civil servant can carry on and even engage in impartial and non-influenced activities. Or tell me, Mr State Secretary, who was disturbed by this sentence, and for precisely what purpose does the legislator take this sentence out of the text of the law, that impartial and uncontrollable activity should not be endangered in the future. I mean, why would they take it out, and then why would it be free? If the government official leaves the government service for any reason, it may be prohibited for a maximum of two years to be employed by a company operating in that sector. Moreover, information obtained in the context of government relations cannot be used for business purposes. The question is, of course, how to interpret and control this. [[14.10]] In the opinion of the trade unions, with the exception of government officials, all other government officials are disadvantaged, and no vision of the future is guaranteed by the bill, which leaves the 16-year table unchanged. Thus, the lower limit of the salaries of 145 thousand, 160 and 180 thousand HUF remains. They also object to the part about staff management, its full centralization, because positions that remain vacant for six months will simply be taken away by the government and transferred to another place. This would not be a wise decision in the present situation, Mr Secretary of State, you know best that the majority of these statuses are not deliberately filled, but simply impossible to fill these places because they require special knowledge, for example, or because of the extremely low salary, they simply cannot find a candidate. That does not mean that this task should not be performed within the public administration. Nor does it seem justified to set a basic number per organ, which can be supplemented from a central holding upon request, but can be taken back at any time. According to trade unions, it makes it impossible for a given body to plan and see for years. This, by the way, regarding the KLIK in recent years, if it has not been a big enough fall, Mr Secretary of State, then I think it would be worth looking back at how well this centralised staff management of the KLIK has succeeded in recent years, and how they have been forced to see after several years that this was an aborted idea from the very first minute, and that this proposal has been withdrawn, or that the operation of the KLIK has been modified, because it is completely unthinkable that someone from Budapest, from their own initiative, will tell us what to do and how to do in Kárakószörcsök-Alsón. In terms of both the number of people and the human resources, and in the case of total inability to function, the power bulb could not be ordered for years, until someone in Budapest printed the seal on the paper; it was completely proven that this was inappropriate and not a good solution. Obviously, the middle level should have something to do with this. Another problem is that the bill does not assign the wages to the person carrying out the task, but vice versa. In Hungarian, people will be associated with the wage with the number of job vacancies. In the category of wages, the transfer of a government official would be the only way to remedy it if it were to belong to a different category of wages, which would obviously lead to incalculableness and complete insecurity for the employee himself. It is also an objection that, according to the proposal, the management mandate is not separated from the legal relationship, so if a person is withdrawn on behalf of his managers, he will go out on the street. I hope the law readers understand that. [[Dr. István Simicskó will take his place in the notary seat.]] Finally, once again, the fundamental freedom reduced by five days and the additional freedom will be abolished. This proposal is a member of the slave package, rightly entered into this circle, will bring complete vulnerability to all workers, complete authoritarian and convenient leadership to the government, obviously. We know that's their goal. We know that their aim is to ensure that this Hungarian administration executes Viktor Orbán's orders without questioning them until the last village. You know, in a normal country, the public administration would also have to embrace the problems of the Hungarian people, to represent the profession, and to be able to sometimes represent something sound in relation to the central administration of the government. After the adoption of this law, the Hungarian administration will not be able to do so. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-28-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gergely Arató represents DK, so far he has performed his duties as a notary. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-87	Mr President, Dear House, Our fellow MPs and State Secretary of the Government would clearly like to say when, what they can talk about and what they can say, but I am obliged to draw their attention to the fact that they do not yet have the power, and if it is up to us, they will not, so I am obliged to say, together with my fellow opposition Members, that this bill is unacceptable, this bill is not in the interests of the country, but only in the interests of the government. And be clear, because I have seen that there are minor problems of understanding among some of my fellow Members: we are not hurting government officials, my dear Secretary of State, dear fellow Members, on the contrary, we are protecting government officials from you, from political leaders who consider this not to be a public service, but a government service, and who want to continue to limit their independence and rights. Because this bill, my fellow Members, has come with a new concept in the last nine years, in addition to making a major but unsuccessful attempt to create order in some way in the administrative system, which has been fatally disrupted by successive diverging concepts, has always been a new minister with a new concept, so that this administration system is in some way put in order, and this is indeed a slave law, or to put it another way, it is a droid law, which seeks to demorate government and civil servants from a public servant, from a dedicated professional in the public domain, into an automatic, a droid implementing government decisions without thinking. Let's start with the first part. You've been legosing with the administration all these years. They put it together, they took it apart, they didn't like it, they changed the legal status laws, they created new legal status laws, they split the uniform former civil servants' status into a lot of small rights. Now they realize that this is not good, they're trying to put it together, but they're not really doing it, because if we look at this law, it doesn't involve creating a uniform legal status and a unified public service, but simply sticking together the elements from previous legal status laws and previous administrative laws. This is not a code of conduct in the sense that it is a unified proposal, but simply a set of ideas for the former administration, which are arranged together without any particular reason. Let me just pick out a few favorites, a lot of them. One of my favourites is that all legal status is classified under the title of the government administration official, but these are not unified, but also wonderful new legal statuses appear, which are my favorites. One is the political service relationship and the other is the Commissioner's relationship; the latter could also be called a commissar with a well-established foreign word for simplicity. So from now on, they're gonna be like this in public administration. Obviously, this was a great need to appoint new Commissioners, and their relationship should be properly guaranteed that poor Commissioners, whose other paragraphs of the bill, by the way, make it possible to appoint an essentially unlimited number of Commissioners at both the government commissioner's and the ministerial commissioner's level, and that is what you are using, and they should finally be in order and secure their legal status, to deal with small railway or other exotic and important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also add that here Mr Secretary of State boasted about the way in which the number of political leaders or politicians has been reduced. This is true when it comes to leaders led by the people. At the same time, he has never had as many state ministers, ministers, commissioners as the current government, if we count them together. With the state leaders appointed by you, depending on you, who, by the way, are very expensive, they don't save any money. One direction of the entire bill is, and frankly, I don't want to deal with your internal affairs much, that you're essentially giving the Prime Minister all the power. From this point forward, all ministers, in all matters of government, will be able to reach through without any restrictions. All right, that's your government philosophy. I have to say, it's not very practical, but you have to bear the consequences. It is because the Prime Minister can make public offerings, not with his own money, because he can do that, or with his family; in the wider, closer family, there are people in a circle of acquaintance who can make public offerings. No, the Prime Minister himself will do such things, obviously at the expense of public money or public money. The really problematic part, and this is very professionally drawn to the attention of the trade unions sitting on the employee side of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, who have been forgotten to ask in a fair way, as Mr Harangozó said, before submitting the bill, is that the bill affects civil servants at a number of points extremely adversely, so I say for the sake of simplicity, that is their normal name; I could also say the long name that you are using. The fact is that while there are benefits and new benefits are introduced, there are also some that could be supported. But these, with the exception of a few family benefits, are essentially bound to their leaders' favors. From then on, the Secretary of State may or may one of the pro-government keynote speakers have boasted that there will be no seniority in the administration. In other words, from here on out, it is not that those who gain experience will move forward, and the salary will improve, but that those who are given high grades by the politician's bosses in the evaluation system will receive a high salary. [[14.20]] The whole point of the public administration wage system was to depend only on the work and the performance of the work, but instead you introduce a wage that favors higher wages. We very much do not see what performance-enhancing methods and benchmarking methods would allow for a politically independent decision, especially because of the elements mentioned by Mr Bellozó, which essentially make civil servants vulnerable to politics. On the other hand, there are problems with working hours, and I wouldn't be able to analyze that for a longer time. It is simply ridiculous for you to boast of the family-friendly elements of the proposal, but while introducing a working time system that is not family-friendly, but a XXI. In a country of the century, it is simply unacceptable not only in the public sector, but anywhere. The working order that you propose is an exploitative working order, the essence of which is to squeeze out civil servants, to use them in every way, and to see them later in the proposal, and then to throw them away like the used rag. This is your administrative philosophy, so you take care of your public servants. That's a little something compared to banning replacements, which doesn't mean there'll be no replacements, because they're gonna get the job done with civil servants, but it means they're not gonna get paid to replace them. This practice has been tried in education, and in the same way there is extra money, and teachers are obliged to replace them without overtime. This is what awaits government officials from now on. The biggest problems are that from here on out, virtually anyone can be dismissed from the Public Administration at any time you think so. One of the most important guarantees for the professional functioning of the public administration is that, in addition to the mandatory requirement for impartiality, what you also delete is that civil servants' jobs are protected in a sense, they cannot or could not be arbitraryly dismissed from the public service. You have changed this already in 2010, but now you are consistently continuing this principle; you are obviously leaving it to the employer, who, by the way, is always the government in this bill, and in this respect, at least they are honest. It doesn't even occur to me that someone should be loyal to his own organization, his own profession, his specialty in some way, all that matters is loyalty to the government and his head. But I'm telling you, it's written in the law, it's a nice, honest moment. So, if the government official does not meet these high government requirements, then, in essence, there is an unlimited, in any way possible to fire him, to remedy him, to defend him only in the administrative court, which you have just set up and which also serves government interests. Let's see some more pearls. For example, the proposal is 67. §2 of the Act allows the personal rights of civil servants to be restricted if it is strictly necessary and proportionate to the attainment of the objective for reasons directly related to the purpose of the public service. So, who's gonna decide whether it's necessary or proportionate? I will tell you, dear fellow Members, that, of course, the same government and then the government will tell you how to limit the personality rights of a civil servant or a government official and then tell you when this is proportionate, and if you do not like it, you can go to Mr Patyi and complain. Finally, let me mention two more very important elements. Where there was a way and a reason to correct, we return to a unified, seemingly uniform public service. Dear Secretary of State, dear fellow Members, if you do this, why not finally take the basically necessary step to ensure that officials working in government offices have at least the same status as other government officials? How is it that they don't actually get anything, or they get less of it than those who work in the ministries? ! The person who works for you directly, the person who handles the affairs of the citizens is not important, it doesn't matter, his interests don't matter. Trade unions list in ten points the number of places where old regulations and new regulations discriminate against officials working in government offices. Once again, they are the ones who, in fact, determine the quality of public administration that citizens perceive. This includes the completely flawed staff management system that is introduced, which does not actually assign substantial numbers to tasks, not what anyone has to do, not what the tasks are to be solved, but what makes the whole sphere a playground for arbitrary decisions. We have seen how this public service reduction has now been implemented. There was no mention here that they had any idea who was needed, what task this second wave of rationalisation had been carried out, no mention of what the state had to do, no mention of where there was a shortage of staff or where it was not. I'll tell you this: the shortage of numbers is, of course, once again in the first place where they deal with the affairs of citizens, and it's still hard to find an employee in a social services office. I'm sure it was much easier to fill the numbers in the cabinet. Finally, I have to say, my dear Secretary of State, I know that you have such a ritual duty to always deal with the period before 2010. I understand that, and I think it was a pleasant time, too, and it is much better to talk about it than about their current governance, but while you're talking about it, at least make a decision, Mr. Secretary of State, that bureaucracy or bureaucracy has now been ravaged. Either way, the two of them are biologically impossible. You invented a creature that does not exist, dear Secretary of State. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Parallel!]] And I listen with tears to how good it will be if the offices do not ask citizens for the information they already have. That is a wonderful idea, Mr Secretary of State, I liked it even when we wrote it in the Act on Administrative Procedure in 2004. How about you implement the good laws instead of bringing in new ones? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Lajos Korózs asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-89	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. In fact, I would like to ask you, because here is the last day of November, sometime during the first or second week of December, there will be a law adopted, nearly 100,000 people are affected by this measure, and they would like it to come into force on 1 January. Please tell me, who will make the papers?! Who's gonna do the reclassifications? Let's calculate that it's between Christmas and two holidays and New Year's Eve, most likely even in the state administration they don't expect people to work. Do you see a realistic chance that, in nearly a month's time, this will become an approved reclassification and documented law in accordance with the law? That's all I wanted. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, or anyone who has applied is not present in the Chamber at the moment. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-91	If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'd be very happy to answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-92	In fact, please.
u2018-11-28-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have made a list of things, but first I would like to answer Mr Korózs' question. I think, yes, that the system will be able to manage, that the administration must be able to carry out this type of tasks, otherwise it would prove its own incompetence; we would like to avoid this. I would like to ask you not to worry about that, which will be resolved by the administration if the Parliament decides so. I'm gonna start a little behind. With such a philosophical introduction, we are all slipping here, which follows that the word "duplicate" has two interpretations: there is a positive interpretation, here in the debate it was said that Max Weber is displaying it, which means that there is a responsible, accountable, professional administration organization; and there is also a pejorative interpretation, which is usually used this way in the common language, I have written that it is a boisterous administration system that is turning against citizens and abusive of its power, that is the negative meaning of bureaucracy. [[14.30]] I think the problem here is that, in the pre-2010 period, we saw that you have made a negative bureaucracy policy, that was the decisive feature of public administration before 2010, that after 2010, there really was a turnaround and that we tried to rearrange the administration according to the Weber principles. This was not an easy task, because, on the one hand, the public administration was not good for decades of communism, on the other hand, neither was the economic and social collapse of the regime to this effect, and what was very, very bad for the public administration, is your eight-year government, in which this disruptive, citizen-turning and abuse-of-power administration system was operated. By the way, with regard to speeches referring to slavery and slave law, I would like to ask you here that these hoaxes, which were also mentioned in yesterday's debate in today's debate, should be nice not to repeat, because these are not things about the abuse of people. We are primarily accountable to taxpayers for the operation of an efficient administration and, secondly, we are accountable to public servants for a decent wage and for a XXI. The creation of a centuries-old set of conditions. This bill would serve precisely to prove to taxpayers that unnecessary bureaucracy is being cut off, to public servants we are finally settling decades of debt, a more worthy wage and a XXI. Let's try to create a centuries-old set of conditions. I understand that, as opposition representatives, you are all working from a background set up by whom I do not know, without having read through the really thick bill, but let me add that I think that some of the speeches have been wrong and that I should be very specific about working time. The bill is 118. Paragraph 2 of the Act makes it clear that working hours are 40 hours per week and daily working hours are 8 hours per week, and this is called the general working order, according to which the vast majority of public servants will work. Of course, it may be possible to set a working time limit, so far, but this applies only to a minority of public or public servants or workers in this sense, and these guarantees are laid down in the law. So I would like to ask you not to say that working hours vary from 40 hours to 48 hours, because that is simply not true. The other thing I would like to respond to is the authorisations to establish a regulation. I understand that I am not a Member of Parliament, but I am, by the way, a Member of Parliament, and I have taught constitutional law in my civil profession at the university, so I think that we should recognise as much as Parliamentary and as Members of Parliament that 30 years after the change of regime, when everyone talks about the fact that at the moment the Hungarian legal system is clogged with legislation at the legislative level, and that we should try to deregulate and define in lower-level legislation the provisions that are not related to fundamental rights, which do not need to be settled at a legal level, which are within the scope of the executive authority such an international trend, there is also such a requirement for literature, then I think that in itself we should criticise the fact that, with regard to government administration in 30 fields, the law does not require regulation, in my view of strategic and country assembly quality and approach, the law itself gives the right to regulation, the right of the regulation, in particular terms of government administration, the right to a failure to act. We are referring to the extent of freedoms, and I would like to refer briefly to this. On the one hand, we would really like to resew this system, because this system cannot remain, because since the wage development in the public administration has disappeared since 2008, there have been two consequences. One is that bureaucracy has obviously swelled, because if a state leader couldn't afford to pay people competitively, then he said that he would rather guarantee the security of the task by increasing the number of people. And the other is that if you can no longer pay competitive wages, you can give me higher, much higher opportunities for freedom, which will not be used by civil servants, but when you leave the administration, you will have to pay as a pension for freedom. I believe that this system is not sustainable, that this system cannot be operated in 2018, and that is why, in parallel to the wage increase, we are dealing with the issue of freedoms. By the way, we are open to the proposals and we are planning discussions on how much of the basic freedom and what additional freedoms should be available. And with regard to the assessment of wage increases, I mean that there is a philosophical difference between us, and, of course, this philosophical difference is okay if it survives, but let me record that the philosophical difference is that we think that performance should be linked to wages. So in the public sector, too, those who offer better performance should earn better. This hasn't happened since the change of regime. In the public sector, according to the law, wages had nothing to do with performance, and in your period 2002-2010, there was a tendency I know because as a simple public servant I started to work in public administration in 2009, there was a tendency and trend that wages were not performance-oriented, and then we would try to distribute different benefits from the favor of leaders to everyone who might, especially if we were to take away the 13th month allowance from everyone in general, but we would try to compensate for the otherwise faithful, I do not want to say that comrades, because I do not want to bring the character of the debate to this, but faithful workers. The other is a matter of undeservation. Otherwise, just one last sentence: yes, we would like to eliminate this system, and we would like to pay within a band in an annex to a law, which, in my view, provides sufficient guarantees that no one will receive less wages than otherwise due, the employer is free to determine the amount of specific wages in relation to performance within that band. In the comments on the lack of merit, I would also ask the fellow Members to read the proposal, although this is not in the preparation paper, but this title of termination of employment is called a loss of trust, it is still in the proposal today, and both Members, Mr Bellozó and Mr Staudt, have read the same part. Yeah, but the one next to him, in the law, is 109. The section next to it was not read, which means that the reason for the lack of merit can only be a fact manifesting in the conduct of the government official or in the work. The law expressly requires that information be provided and expressly requires that the right of defence or the right of defence be guaranteed. This part probably wasn't in the preparation material, so the congressmen didn't say it, but it's still in the bill. And there is also a philosophical difference between us as regards the requirement of impartiality, because we believe that impartiality must be shown to citizens, and that everyone who works in public administration is responsible for the public service, and that in the context of public service, and in relation to internal relations, it is not possible to be impartial. There, a government official cannot choose not to be in the public interest because he wants to act impartially. No! In the internal context, public service should be provided and, moreover, the requirement of impartiality should appear to citizens. With regard to payment, I would just like to point out once again that central administration workers are the last group of public sector wage-raised groups to be left out. [[14.40]] Thus, while higher education workers, in education, health and social care systems, may be referred to as "public employees', there was an average increase of 30 percent in the levels of territorial administration in 2016-2017. So the pay sign that's in there already includes that raise. This does not mean that we do not want to provide additional wage increases for everyone who works in the public sector or in the public sector, some of these plans are known and we are working in another part of them, but we must also take into account the requirements of responsible budgetary management. And finally, as a last point, I would like to bring here the question of determining the human resources centre and the central position, or the fact that after six months, the job will cease if it fails to be filled. And it is true that there are unfilled posts in the current situation, but this is exactly what the wage increase would do to enable the central administration to fill the posts again and not to have posts that cannot be filled for six months. Otherwise, if the pay is okay and the job is still not filled for six months, then that post should be returned to the Central Personnel Centre in the spirit of cutting red tape and there must be a decision on whether or not this is necessary for an effective job provision. And we generally think that, yes, the government must determine what kind of positions are included in some of the wallets, some of the tasks and competences. In particular, if this level of employment has been set by the government, as has been done, it is a matter of ministerial responsibility to allocate these secured centrally secured posts, because obviously this cannot be determined from a single centre, but can be defined within the sector in a nicely split way, precisely what kind of human resources needs are needed for the task. I understand that you don't like this system, because it finally brings us some responsibility, some accountability, some transparency in the operation of central administration and government administration, which hasn't been in it before, but the fact is that that's what citizens expect us to do. Citizens expect us to operate an efficient, transparent, responsible and active public administration, which is why they are willing to sacrifice the Hungarian people's work and the Hungarian people's salary so that we can finance the public sector, and the state can finance it. They think that if these conditionalities come together, this equation will come together, they will be willing to give competitive wages and thus support the state competitiveness turnaround that we are working on. Thank you so much for the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow, or 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/3633. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-28-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us contains an amendment to the Law on the State Audit Office. In this case, it is worth starting from the fact that, from 1 January 2012, the Fundamental Law that enters into force confirmed the role of the State Audit Office at constitutional level and confirmed the requirement for public finance management. Since then, the public financial chapter has set the requirement for transparent and sustainable budgetary management as a key principle, which I referred to in my previous speech. The debt rule has been placed at the centre of the public financial regulation, and the tasks of guaranteeors of macroeconomic balance are carried out by the Fiscal Council with very serious powers, and the work of this Fiscal Council is also supported by the work of the State Audit Office and the Hungarian National Bank. Speaking specifically of the State Audit Office, we must say that the fundamental law adopted in connection with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law has also confirmed the public financial audit and analysis activities of the State Audit Office. With the appreciation of public finances, the State Audit Office also increased its weight. This is the main public financial audit body of Parliament, and it was therefore necessary to guarantee the independence of the State Audit Office and the strengthening of the powers of the Court of Auditors in this fundamental law. It is important to stress that this was also a new element that the new law, when it came into force, made the publication of all the Court's reports mandatory, so that all the findings of any audit can be made known to anyone. Obviously, this has been most helpful to Members of Parliament, since it is the task of the State Audit Office to support Parliament's work in terms of public financial control. It can be said that the new law, in addition to being fully aligned with international expectations and strengthening the independence of the Court of Auditors, has increased the effectiveness and transparency of audits. The government believes that every organisation is expected to carry out public tasks not only but also to assign efficiency and quality criteria to it by constantly reviewing its performance. An important part of the use of the Court's work, in line with international standards, is, therefore, to act as an exemplary organisation for the efficient and efficient use of public funds, as a point of reference and reference for the public sector as a whole. We see that the State Audit Office has been able to meet this requirement effectively and well in recent years through several instruments. What is the reason for the amendment before us? We believe that this amendment, however, represents progress on a number of points compared to the previous one. On the one hand, it manages the relationship between the SAO Act and the Public Service Officers Act, and gives assurance of the SAO's organisational independence, contributes to the reduction of bureaucracy and further increases the efficiency and effectiveness of public financial control. In fact, as I mentioned, one of the important roles is the settlement of the links between the SAO Act and the Public Service Officers Act, or, if you can be more precise, the resolution of the relationship. In the past, the rules relating to the organisation of the State Audit Office and some of the rules containing the relationship between the State Audit Office and the audit staff were laid down in the Public Service Officers Act. This, we believe, is unfortunate in terms of the independence and effectiveness of the State Audit Office and its staff, and we would also like to rearrange this area, as the previous item has shown, by adopting a law on government administration. Therefore, the provisions that have been in this law so far should be raised to a higher level of protection and thus to a fundamental level of law with higher independence. In addition, the budgetary resources released by the Court of Auditors in recent years as a result of efficiency gains and human resources development will allow the SAO staff to receive a higher financial estimate than previously. The amendment also contains provisions for this, and we believe that this increase in wages in itself will help the work of Parliament on the one hand, because the State Audit Office supports the work of Parliament. [[14.50]] On the other hand, it helps to meet the requirements of responsible budgetary management, since the President of the State Audit Office is one of the most important actors of the Fiscal Council and the staff of the State Audit Office are one of the most important foundations for the macroeconomic analysis work in the Fiscal Council. So we think that, in this respect, continuing wage increases and setting them up in a fundamental law is a very forward-looking goal. In addition, the amendment also contains technical and clarification provisions that have been justified on the basis of the experience of the past. If, at a later stage in the debate, there is a question about this, perhaps a comment, I would like to address it. With your permission, I would not speak in this speech again, and thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Fundamental Law, the State Audit Office is the financial and economic audit body of the Parliament. Its legal status and powers are set out in LXVI 2011 on the Fundamental Law and the State Audit Office. by law. According to the grounds attached to Article 43 of the Fundamental Law, Parliament is able to exercise directly limited control over the management of the executive authority, and the Fundamental Law therefore constitutes an independent institution of the State Audit Office for the performance of this task. In the system of powers, the State Audit Office is therefore part of the legislative arm. His inspection experience is used directly in the work of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have just heard in the Minister of State's exposé, the bill before us contributes to the reduction of state bureaucracy, addresses the problems of coherence between the Law on the State Audit Office and the Law on Public Service Officers, further increases the efficiency and effectiveness of public financial control and strengthens both the organizational and financial independence of the State Audit Office. The aim of the bill is also to renew public financial control. The legal background for the renewal of domestic public finances is the Fundamental Law and the so-called fundamental laws which entered into force after its adoption. The new Court of Auditors law was adopted for the first time in a series of fundamental laws. Among its new audit powers, the obligation to draw up a plan of measures, the sanctioning of non-compliance with the obligation to contribute, and the general authorisation for official signals have both highlighted the action of the State Audit Office and changed the operation of the institution. With regard to the independence of the State Audit Office, it can be stated that according to international standards for the main audit institutions, the SAIs are only able to carry out their tasks in a truly objective and effective manner if they are independent of the audited entity and are protected from external influence. An essential condition for the effective, effective and value-creating control of public funds and national assets is the independence of the auditors, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned in his expozee. One of the important guarantees of the independence of the State Audit Office is the organisational independence of the SAO, which is why it is justified to amend the SAO Act accordingly in order to include provisions on the heads and auditors of the main financial and economic audit body of the National Assembly. In addition, the presentation before us has been justified by technical, clarification and, on the basis of the experience of some of the periods since the establishment of the Law on the State Court of Auditors, also contains practical provisions. CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. The amendment of the Act includes the necessary amending and repealing provisions for the establishment of a separate regulation on the staff of the State Court of Auditors for the coherence of the legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Audit Office interprets its task beyond the legal requirements, and it can now be said year after year that it wishes to strengthen its advisory role and disseminate integrity culture in addition to the basic audit activity, supports the renewal of state management, and has been a committed supporter of financial awareness development and financial culture research in our country for years. We can also say that this area has been a priority for the institution's social responsibility in recent years. The SAO's activities in this area effectively serve to reduce the economic and macroeconomic risks of individuals due to inadequate financial awareness and inadequately sound financial decisions, thereby improving the financial awareness of Hungarian families. I believe that the bill will contribute to the continued effective functioning of the State Audit Office, which is in any way beneficial for Hungary, the Hungarian State. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the proposal contained in this proposal by their votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I ask your permission to order a three-minute technical break, because understand, this is Mr. Secretary of State's third law, even the next one is his, and the clamping need will not be delayed. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much for your understanding and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your rapid return. It was quick. I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Staudt Gábor, who is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Looking at the proposal before us, I have tried to prepare for the specifics that could be highlighted from this, which might underline or point of concern. But then, with regard to the speech before me, and especially the lead speaker of Fidesz, I will put aside this material which I wrote for myself, because if we hear how excellent the State Audit Office is in Hungarian and international relations, how excellently independent, how excellently it works, how excellently it protects people, democratic institutions, so en blog the whole of democracy, then one unwittingly recalls the events of the past period, which do not prove that the State Audit Office is capable of doing so. In fact, the individual auditors, the individual people working there, may be able to do so, but the fact that these auditors, the people working there, often have to carry out a very clear political will has become quite clear from the events of the past period. And here not only about the 660 million fine for Jobbik, but also for other opposition parties, it was not to this extent, but also to a large extent, we can say that it was quite clear that it could be established by imposing penalties that did not comply with the law. Not to mention the fact that we also went to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg because of the damage to Jobbik. I have no information on that, but I believe that the other opposition parties have done so, so where the international renome of the State Court of Auditors is going to develop will be shaped by a clearly decisive decision of the Human Rights Court. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[15.00]] We live in a system that has already been highlighted by several political scientists and political analysts, which seems formally democratic, but is perfectly good at making decisions, implementing decisions and delivering political manual control. This was what he called a hybrid system, which is now so widespread, although it is a new term among political thinkers, that we can leave this definition, which seems to meet the requirements of democracy, but if it is given the opportunity or if there is such a political will, then the political decisions of the Fidesz government and Viktor Orbán are perfectly valid. And, of course, in the other pan of the balance, if there's an abuse they don't want to deal with, they can influence it the same way through the Attorney General. So we live in a system like this. Of course, it can be explained that it is a coincidence that an ex-fidesz representative is the President of the State Audit Office, the State Court of Auditors that you have praised for your independence here, and as I have said, you have proven that you can do a lot of things, but certainly not resist government pressure. Of course, until they find an irregularity at Fidesz, they hire posters at a quarter price compared to the fined Jobbik, but of course this is acceptable, they do not even examine all parties before the election campaign, Fidesz is accidentally followed, and of course they do not find any problems, all these things that go beyond the weirdness which, by the way, establish that the faith in democracy is not being strengthened among Hungarian citizens, and unfortunately this does not occur internationally from Hungary. Not to mention that the laws are also wrong, because otherwise I go on against the law, and it is also before the Constitutional Court that there is a body whose decisions cannot be reviewed by the courts, and there is no appeal or judicial review for its findings. It should be introduced so that the Court of Auditors' decisions can be challenged before any forum, especially by a former Fidesz representative who is not afraid to implement the political will that he receives from above. This is, by the way, if the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court with the Fidesz people, were to make a decision... otherwise, the new tendency now is to share it with you, if you are not familiar with it, if there is a decision that might be unpleasant for our party and government, then you cannot make a decision. Because the Constitutional Court also has 50-50 percent of such a wobbly, so certain decisions could even be decided contrary to the position of the government; this is resolved, then it is simply not presented. Another issue is that we would have expected more from the Constitutional Court than that, but I think they will have a serious responsibility if they continue to do so in the coming years. Because it is possible to play if they make a decision, it is a good decision, but if they do not make a decision for many years, or they will only make a decision when their relevance is completely lost, then this Constitutional Court will also go into Hungarian law by allowing itself to be grinded into the current governing party, and allowed Fidesz-KDNP to grind itself. This will probably not be a glorious role in the history of law, and I am sure that the current Constitutional Court, as President of the Court of Auditors, as well as the Attorney General or as President of the Handó Tünde OBH will not go into the Hungarian legal history as well as, let's say, Zoltán Magyary or Max Weber quoted by you, although it is obviously possible to talk about it in the case of German law history. So our problem is that although the nice words are there, although the goals are difficult to argue at the level of the submissions, but in practice it will always be different; than in the classic joke, when in the Soviet Union they theoretically manufacture sewing machines in a factory, and when they try to put together a sewing machine from the squeaky parts, it doesn't work because it always becomes a tank. I feel the same in Hungary today that there are nice proposals, perfectly-led amendments, which can be idealized so nicely, only in the end it will always be a tank, and with this tank they will shoot, and then they will deny it. Whether I quote the recent events in the Gruevski case again, if there is one person, including your polling base, who believes that no one has spoken to the immigration office, and that decision has been made by the immigration office alone, I think that either you are lying or you are not living in this country, by the way, three people outside Gruevskin have been granted refugee status. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Close to the agenda!]] Yes, it belongs to the agenda, because there are nice things written down, but the problem with the State Audit Office is that with such proposals you can raise your money to the people working there, most of which the auditors certainly deserve it, especially since most of it is working on projects that the policy does not want to interfere with, but the hybrid systems have their own problem that it does not always want to interfere with, but reserves the right to say so, and if it is in its interest, it will agree. By the way, the problem I'm guessing is that the people here don't realize it, but they will one day, if they think otherwise than the system, when, let's say, an article about Andy Vajna appears, and then there's a rumour that it was issued or not issued a launch permit. So the Fidesz camp alone does not assume that articles will be published on a professional basis, not even on their own functions. So living in such a system and maintaining such a system can be no joy, much less joy, than fighting it. I can understand that, and if you're gonna put your hands on their hearts, you're gonna have to feel that. Everyone obviously has to account for why they're doing it. But I don't want to drag this on for long, because we are all aware of what has been said or what has been said here. So this proposal, of course, can be discussed, but the State Court of Auditors does not give back its independence, does not lead a professional who is not a Fidesz party member who has moved from Parliament to the head of the State Audit Office, nor does it create that the decisions of the State Audit Office, in accordance with international standards, could otherwise be challenged by any remedy. So this proposal, I have to say, is a beauty patch, or maybe it's not even a good one. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-100	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party is Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa. We can listen to him, please.
u2018-11-28-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Here, my better colleague ended up wandering into a bit of a political field on the bill on the State Court of Auditors [[Gergely Harvesto: Well, we'd be in Parliament, unbelievable! A statement from Jobbik: This is the Parliament!]] Two years earlier, they asked us to stay professional with the debate. Congressman, we don't usually discuss articles about Andy Vajna at the group meeting, what it's about now and what it's not about. [[Gergely Arató: Well, to be instructive, it will be useful to us!]] and what's the point or consequences. This is your faction meeting, where they're talking about their own lies being brought down by the Alpha News, the Crowd Pub, or the media, where they can publish their news about increasing the number of members. That's why they've got recordings out of their ranks. So we don't do that. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: This isn't it, is it? Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] At our group meeting, we talk about measures to improve Hungary's life, and we also talk about hard debates, I honestly say, [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We can imagine.]] or we talk about measures that make life better for the economy or for families. Returning to the proposal: the Secretary of State said the essential part of the proposal, I would add that under the Fundamental Law, the State Audit Office of the Parliament's financial and economic audit body and the immigration and citizenship office have nothing to do with the bill, because the State Audit Office is also carrying out an economic and financial audit there, because it is a public body. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I was talking about a hybrid system, Lawrence.]] There is no other connection that the Congressman has been able to bring the immigration office here. What we see in the system of powers is that the State Audit Office is part of the legislative branch, and it is worthy and fair for Parliament to settle the situation that has arisen. [[15.10]] We can support any bill that creates a clearer situation, which brings financial settlement, which increases efficiency and reduces bureaucracy. I think that is what this proposal is all about, the wage increase that has been going on throughout the country in recent years and the wage increase that has taken place in various areas of the public sector, the health sector, the field of higher education, the social field, the field of law enforcement uniforms. It is therefore very important that in this area, too, wage growth should show up and stand up so that they can also benefit from the economic performance of the whole country. Once again, the fact that something creates a clearer situation is welcome in all cases, and that it is not free from a clear reduction in bureaucracy, because there are also such forward-looking proposals in this bill, we can support this clean situation, and we also ask opposition parties to support this proposal. That's what KDNP does. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-102	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for sharing the atmosphere and content of your group meeting. [[Defiance.]] This is a nice exchange of information, so the atmosphere will be established by MEP Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-103	Given the fact that it was quite a long time ago when I first set foot in this Parliament, it comes from my situation that I remember a lot of things. Poor István Hagelmayer, I think he's spinning in his grave. So, look, it was your joke when the SAO president was appointed. You know, there's such a sociological definition that says "sustainability of status." If it's somewhere, then here, I think it makes perfect sense. I could even predict that in Mr. Tállai's case. But that's not the interesting thing, it's the presentation, because that's what it's all about. Please, I see, as one of our fellow Members who spoke here before me has said, that they may now want to pay off the inspectors who have worked hard to protect the parties in the last term. That's one thing. The other: I am sorry, first of all, Mr Secretary of State said that performance will be taken into account in the progress of the public administration, and there is no question of party loyalty and others. Then tell me why the little babies working at the SAO as interns have to pay a salary of 900 thousand or a million forints on the run! [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Nacsa Lőrinc: Not just for pretty babies! Dr. Balázs Orbán: Read what you have to do! Attack the leader, attack the politician, not the employee.]] Yeah, right. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Don't attack them! They're working!]] I learned in Fidesz that if there's any potential in something, it's gonna happen sooner or later. That's the nature of these things, from now on I also think... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't hurt the workers!]] No one's gonna hurt you. God forbid I'm gonna make a negative comment on any of the employees. Those who control social institutions, let us say, tend to work hard, those who work in different health institutions, where the state is the maintenance or, perhaps, the municipal authorities are the maintainers, and they must carry out such a control activity there. I was just saying that they're probably creating the financial and legal conditions for those who've been at the forefront of the Fidesz orders. So that's all it is. My fellow Members, I am not stalling any longer. I could finish, because I only took two minutes or two and a half minutes. I believe that we will not support this proposal, and that is not a surprise to my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-104	Thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-105	On the basis of today's experience and the President's invitation or encouragement, I would like to start by saying, first of all, that we talk at factions about both Andy Vajna's work and the Alpha news and the Kuruc.info, and we did not see too much difference between them. [[Alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas.]] And what I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that... [[Noise. Interviews from Jobbik: Talk about Feri!]]
u2018-11-28-106	Thank you very much for such a foundation of the mood, and for helping the President, which the Congressman is offering, and now perhaps you should talk about the law, so it will help us a lot.
u2018-11-28-107	I'm gonna try, I'm gonna grow on her. I would like to note, for the sake of my fellow Members, in particular Mr Nacsa, that the problem is not usually with the employees of the State Audit Office, but with the head of the State Audit Office, Mr László Domokos, whom none of us would probably call a specialist, because we know that he has transferred directly from politics to this important task on behalf of the party. He's got the party there, he's got to be there, and he's gonna be fine. That is what my better colleagues have been talking about. It is also a very specific assistance, when the State Audit Office, one and a half days after our firm was burned, announced in a statement that it did not want to help us, did not inform us, did not reply to our letter to them that afternoon, but immediately informed us that they had made a statement that we should be prepared to be punished well. We understand that, of course, but let's say we expect something from an independent state office other than attacking parties in communications, which is not your job. It is therefore difficult to take this bill seriously, dear fellow Members, honourable Secretary of State. We understand, of course, that there is a reward to be given. Those who meet your expectations will certainly benefit the State Audit Office. We wish you a good time for this, but do not expect us to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for a two-minute opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to be such a day that Congressman Arató insults the heads of various public bodies not present in the House; earlier the Statistical Office, now the President of the State Audit Office, who we know is a certified economist and then a professional economist, and has always worked at various levels, from the municipality to the county council, in financial control committees and budget committees. Doubting his expertise is particularly funny, because I think that he is a nationally recognized economist, who has stood up for an economist in every position related to his profession. This was the case in the Fiscal Council. I would like to say one thing to you, and that applies to all opposition parties, so that they can decide now whether the State Audit Office is good or not when it is good or not. Once they say in one of their speeches, I've just tried to look it up, and I've found a few of them how evil the State Audit Office is, and as a kind of political club, or I don't know what kind of markers they used. In other cases, if the State Audit Office reviews our government over the last eight years, which is a perfectly legitimate criticism, we are obviously human and government decision-makers are also human, so there may be mistakes, for example, when management deficiencies have been detected in hospitals in relation to health institutions, and you have raised the State Audit Office to a shield, and you have said that, well, that is what we have been talking about so far, obviously, on the basis of a well-founded examination by the State Audit Office, criticism can be made here of Fidesz-KDNP's governance and some institution. Now decide whether you like it, well-founded, professional and good, or political and not good, and you're just texting. I don't think the two are gonna fit. We believe that the State Audit Office is doing well-founded, professional and professional work, and that is what we said when it punishes a party for illegal party financing, because it was justified, and also when, let us say, it found farming deficiencies in health institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-110	Congressman Harvester, two minutes.
u2018-11-28-111	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to Mr Nacsa, because now that he has lifted this MTI case back, he is giving us a way to clarify that matter and to clarify the differences in the understanding of the text between us. I told you there that it wasn't about MTI employees... [[Nacsa Lawrence: KSH!]] We do not have an argument between ourselves in connection with the KSH, or we do not have an argument with the employees of the KSH, we do not have any trust in them, but there is no confidence in the government that controls the KSH, which leads and, where appropriate, extends over its head. As far as the State Audit Office is concerned, if you don't mind, Mr. Congressman, Domokos must be a great economist, I don't consider myself to be a professional. However, I can judge that he has received all his positions as a politician in recent years. I'm sorry, but it's not like someone's being assigned something to the party suddenly becomes independent. If a couple of politicians are appointed to a position, it will remain a party politician, dear congressman. [[15.20]] In addition, I must add that Mr. Domokos has not contradicted him with his activities since then. And without going into a health debate, the Court's inquiry to which you refer served the government's objectives in many respects. But I'm not going in that direction right now. It wasn't a coincidence that what came out of it and what came out of it.
u2018-11-28-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes.]] State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2018-11-28-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd react briefly. First of all, I would like to say that we should try to start from objective indicators here. There is an international survey covering 115 countries, called Open Budget Survey, which specifically examines the public financial control bodies of each state and says:. The Hungarian State Audit Office publishes its audit findings in detail and in a timely manner, in which it examines the regularity of public finance management and controls its effectiveness, and has an adequate legal environment, financial and professional means. I think this basically determines how the State Audit Office works. The fact that the opposition, especially Jobbik and other parties, are hurt by the SAO pointing out that the party and campaign support from the Hungarian budget on taxpayers' money could not be spent by the parties in accordance with the law, I do not believe that it is the fault of the State Audit Office. So the error is not in the SAO's device. If we may make one more political comment: it is always said who is appointed by Fidesz, who is not appointed by Fidesz. It should also be said in this debate that the Vice-President of the State Audit Office is a socialist representative. So how is it now? So is the SAO a fidesz or a socialist? The fact that MSZP and DK do not call the president of a constitutional body an economic expert or say that he is not an expert, well, we remember the time when the economic experts of MSZP and DK almost bankrupted the country. So in this context, the fact that someone is not called an economic expert by MSZP and DK is, I think, a positive one. I would add so much to this, because it is an important thing, and it is linked to the adoption of the Fundamental Law, that it has established an institution of the Fiscal Council, which, for the first time since the change of regime, has a very serious competence. The reason why we need the State Audit Office is precisely the independence and efficiency of the State Audit Office so that the Fiscal Council can carry out the tasks and powers set out in the Fundamental Law, because this guarantee, this Fiscal Council, is the depositary of the downward sovereign debt ratio and the enforcement of the requirements of responsible public finance management. I thought I might respond to Mr Staudt's suggestion that there is no place for judicial review of the decisions of the State Audit Office but only for the sake of the minutes. The existing Constitutional Court interpretation, if already referred to the Constitutional Court, explicitly states that this is an Ab Decision No 95 that they cannot be regarded as decisions which can be challenged by judicial review. So the constitutional medium at the moment is one that does not allow SAO decisions to be challenged before a court. I think it's right for someone who has a problem with that to go to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will decide on this issue, and if it reads a different constitutional interpretation from the Fundamental Law, then the corresponding legislative amendments will obviously be proposed. However, the current legislative amendment proposal does not concern this subject, because it is still dependent on it, but is trying to strengthen the independence and appreciation of the SAO on the basis of the experience of recent years and on the basis of the general needs for wage development. I would like to continue to ask the House's support for this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/3618. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill on our table aims to bring the law into line with the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law and to close open regulatory issues that, in connection with the legislation currently in force, I am thinking of the Constitutional Court in Hungary and that have been raised by the international Venice Commission and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in forums. In addition, we believe that it offers a long-term solution to the legal conditions necessary to ensure the full realisation of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and to the separate functioning of the state and religious communities under the Fundamental Law, but based on cooperation in the performance of public tasks. In the registration of religious communities with legal personality, not the recognition of churches but the registration of churches would take place after the amendment, except in legal proceedings, on the basis of objective and reasonable conditions laid down by law, subject to transparency and ordinary judicial remedy. At the time of its entry into force, ex-projections or extraordinary judicial proceedings would ensure that religious communities are not put in a worse position than they have been in the past, and that the ecclesiastical status of those communities that continue to engage in religious activities, which were adversely affected by the legislation which entered into force in 2012, according to the Constitutional Court and the ECHR, should be resolved in a satisfactory manner. The bill aims to lay down as a basic principle that every community that defines itself as a religious community is entitled to constitutional protection, even without a legal personality, but in particular legal personality, as provided by the Fundamental Law to religious communities in the framework of free religious practice. According to the proposal, the legislation ensures the neutrality of the state, the separation of the state and religious communities, the necessary cooperation and the framework of the Fundamental Law, the autonomy and the free self-determination of these communities, together with the equality of religious communities, irrespective of their organisational form, status or name. The bill, while keeping in part the former rules of the so-called church law, partially amends religious and conscientious freedom, conditions, procedures for the registration of religious communities, conditions for the extent of social acceptance, the principles of public participation in the financing of religious activity, and institutional and procedural conditions ensuring the legitimate functioning of religious communities. The new system of ecclesiastical organizations included in the bill provides broad autonomy and support to religious communities for their religious activities and recognises their social involvement, but it maintains the state's right to decide, for objective reasons, on the basis of social acceptance, embeddedness, weight, experience in the performance of public tasks and on the basis of religious traditions, to cooperate more closely in the implementation of public tasks in areas adapted to public needs. We believe that this approach fully complies with the judgment of the European Court of Justice of European Rights in the context of church regulation in Hungary. Any religious community can become a religious association and thus become a legal person if there are at least ten members. Religious associations can also take part in public tasks. The registered churches with already church status have much greater social support than religious associations. [[15.30]] The regulation establishes and requires justified social support on the basis of 1% of personal income tax offerings and provides for a function as a religious association of at least five years. Religious communities with high social support, with a minimum of 4 thousand 1 percent of the average of 5 years, and long-standing religious communities, are registered by the court as registered churches on request. So this is a new category. The expected duration of the operation is 20 or 15 years of Hungarian or at least 100 years of organised international operation. The bill also lays down specific rules for religious communities with legal personality who do not wish to receive support for their religious activities or for their public activities outside programmes financed by public finances, from European Union funds or under international agreements, or from a tendering or tendering system, on the basis of individual decisions. These communities may register themselves as churches in the court on the basis of 1000 registered churches and 10,000 registered churches, instead of certification of sija offerings. This also gives religious communities who do not require cooperation with the State the possibility of obtaining the status of a church. It should be pointed out that, in the light of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, the bill provides a special preferential opportunity for the 16 religious communities currently awaiting Parliament's decision to register as a judicial church. It is therefore important for all Members to know that the adoption and entry into force of the bill in the 16 religious communities awaiting parliamentary decision at the moment would allow them to be registered as churches by the court. The bill also states that, in accordance with the Ab Decision, I stress this once again in order to avoid disputes and misunderstandings: all religious communities will be entitled to 1 percent of the personal income tax that can be offered to the churches, and in addition, religious communities with religious status will be entitled to other religious support provided by the state. The logic of regulation is that, in the area of cooperation between the state and religious communities, the State may conclude specific agreements with certain religious communities in order to carry out public tasks, taking into account social needs, partners' capacity, opportunities, openness. With registered churches, they can conclude comprehensive, not only sub-territorial cooperation agreements based on their historical past, their social acceptance and weight, their organisation, their social responsibility, and therefore reasonable and objective requirements. In the future, so-called comprehensive strategic cooperation agreements with registered churches, i.e. one of the categories, would be concluded by law, not only for a sub-area, because of their protection, importance and durability. So you, as Members of Parliament, will be able to decide on this. In accordance with the Fundamental Law, registered churches with such an agreement, which has been declared by a cardinal law, are considered to be a so-called established church, which leads to different regulations in view of the degree of cooperation with the State. At the same time, the status of the current churches is not affected. Thus, the amendment of the law seeks to establish a category system in which the independence of faith is guaranteed to all, to support the need to establish the conditions for farming, and otherwise the difference between the categories concerns the degree and depth of cooperation between the state and the church. In the bill, you are entitled to discover the elements of the 1990 law on freedom of conscience and religion and on churches, the objectives pursued by the 2011 legislation, such as the prevention of churches. The ideas refer back to the Hungarian historic constitution, which is part of the national identity. Hungarian and European ecclesiastical traditions from the first century onwards, which also take into account the fact that European states also have structured rules on the relationship between the state and religious communities. In view of the impact of the bill on the broad spectrum of Hungarian legal systems, it concerns a fundamental subject, and the bill envisages the entry into force of April 2019 in order, on the one hand, to enforce the constitutional requirement of sufficient preparation time, which is two-way as a sufficient preparation time: on the one hand, the legislator should have sufficient time to prepare the necessary legislative package and, on the other hand, to prepare the religious communities accordingly. Overall, I think that, when the bill is adopted, Hungarian church regulations will fit into the regulations that provide European, structured church organization and thus comply with international standards, meet the expectations of international forums, comply with Hungarian constitutional requirements, and at the same time eliminate all criticisms of domestic legislation. So on the basis of these points, I would like to ask, because it is a two-thirds law, with the support of all Members of Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, Mr Tamás Herczeg, the lead speaker of Fidesz, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For one thought only, let me return to the previous bill. And I would not refer to the idea of my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, or of my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Korózs, that he referred to our standings in relation to the head of the Court of Auditors, but I would refer to Lőrinc Nacsa, who said that it was worthy and fair to negotiate the law on the Court of Auditors and public service officials. I believe that it is at least as worthy and fair to deal with the agenda, the bill that we are about to begin with, because, after the adoption of the Fundamental Law in 2011, Parliament had to establish laws that would bring the areas of law concerned into line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. One of the first legislative proposals was the adoption of the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religious religions and religious communities. Law. It is the new law of 1997 on freedom of conscience and religion and on churches. He wanted to replace the law. The reason for adopting the new bill was not only compliance with the Fundamental Law, but also the elimination of the abuses of the so-called business churches, which took advantage of the loopholes in the legislation in force at the time, as Mr State Secretary said. I would just like to mention, in comparison, that in 2011, more than 300 organizations were registered as churches in Hungary, while in Slovakia in the same year 18, the Czech Republic 34 or in France 75. The scandals known at that time and the uniquely high number of registered organizations were eloquent evidence of inadequate and too generous church regulation. By creating the law, the chaotic situation was resolved, and the abusive church establishment and operation ceased. However, with regard to certain provisions of the new law, the Constitutional Court and certain international bodies and organisations, including the European Court of Human Rights, have expressed criticism. The government side was ready, then it was ready to make the necessary changes requiring a qualified majority, but it did not find any partner from the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the confidence of the voters, after the election in April 2018, we had the opportunity to make the necessary amendments again. [[15.40]] The purpose of the bill before us is to comply with the Fundamental Law and its fifth amendment, and, as I mentioned above, to clarify the issues relating to the indications made by the Constitutional Court and international organisations. The bill is 1. Article 4 of the Act states with principle and intent that I quote:.: Conscience and freedom of religion are the fundamental rights of all, which cannot be linked to any legal form. The chapter on the legal status of religious communities states: "Religious communities are all communities of natural persons, regardless of their organisational form, legal personality or name, which are formed for the practice of religion and primarily pursues religious activities. Religious community can operate without legal personality and in organisational form with legal personality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, The draft provides for certain additional licences for religious communities with legal personality. Such an organization is the religious association, the registered church, the registered church and the established church. The definition of the different legal status of religious communities is necessary because not all religious communities have the same social support, and it is not enough to look at current support in itself, but also to take into account its durability when crossing categories, broadening or reducing the rights of organizations. The bill applies objective criteria already described in the expozee in order to achieve its objective. I consider it important that the bill gives a definition of the religious community, and a taxative list of what is not a religious activity, creating a barrier to organisations looking for loopholes. Thus, in itself, I stress that it is not in itself a religious activity of political and interest, psychic or parapsychic, medical, economic-entrepreneurship, education, higher education, health, charitable, family, child and youth protection, cultural, sport, animal, environmental and nature conservation, data management that goes beyond what is necessary for religious activity, and social activity. One important guarantee change in the proposal is that churches are not registered for recognition but for legal proceedings, except for the establishment of established church status. The proposed legislation describes this as:. The religious community with legal personality is registered by the Metropolitan Tribunal, except for established churches. The draft declares one of the cornerstones of the separation between the state and the church by saying: "The State cannot operate or establish a body for the management and supervision of religious communities. At the same time, the sentence that the decision of the religious community on the basis of an internal rule cannot be amended or reviewed by a public body, and that there is no authority of the State to deal with disputes arising from non-regulated internal relations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is an important circumstance that the State may conclude agreements with religious communities with legal personality which, thanks to their historical and social role, social acceptance, embeddedness, organisation, experience gained in their traditional activities for public purposes, are able to carry out a high level of public interest tasks which are the subject of the agreement. Thus, the State does not wish to interfere in the lives of legitimate religious communities, but it pays and supports organisations that are doing significant work to achieve certain goals of social interest. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us corresponds to the observations of the Constitutional Court and the relevant international organisations, such as the Venice Commission and the European Court of Human Rights, and provides a predictable, objective and clear set of criteria for religious communities, guaranteeing the separation of the state and the church, while providing cooperation and financial support for public interest objectives. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the presentation, and I ask all the groups in this House and, of course, the independent Members to do so. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-28-118	Thank you very much. Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of Jobbik, has an opinion. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It takes time for a good job. The bill before us, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, I assure you of our support. My previous remark was that since 2011, this issue, which is indeed of great importance for Hungarian society, has been brought before this House for a very long time, and if all of our critical comments had previously been taken to heart by the authors, then we should not be discussing this law now, but it is very commendable that this will take place after all this time. I would rather not say the whole international embeddedness and the details of the whole legislation again, as Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member of the Fidesz have done in very detail before me. I would like to draw your attention to one or two points of outstanding importance to this House, which is extremely important for the Jobbik faction, because we really represent a truly civil and Christian set of values as a national party. On the one hand, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: I would like to point out that, where there is also a proposal for freedom of religion of conscience and freedom of religion for those who are in service at the national defence, national security and law enforcement agencies. This is of paramount importance to us, for there have been times in history when this has not happened. We also consider the four-parted system that this bill contains, therefore, a religious association, a registered church, a registered church and an established church, to be absolutely supported, since the XXI. By the 20th century, Hungarian society was much more divided from a religious point of view than it was during previous periods, and this can be handled well in this system of four, in our view. And it is also very important that the Hungarian state should give priority to the churches which, both from a historical point of view and from the point of view of their social importance, have the same weight in Hungarian society. I would like to add that it is also very good that we finally have objective criteria in this bill, because 1 percent of personal income tax, I think, which is included in this proposal as a criterion in a number of ways, I think it is a very good measure that shows which church community the Hungarian society views and trusts in these ecclesiastical communities. Finally, I would like to say that the European Union's outlook and the kind of changes that took into account the opinion of the Venice Commission, which have, therefore, finally appeared in this bill, make this bill, in principle, absolutely to be supported. I also particularly welcome, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, the fact that this system seeks to filter out false churches, so that organizations that act as religious communities sometimes, but on the one hand, working as a business and, on the other hand, people are sometimes brainwashed may be filtered out of the system in connection with this new system, although, unfortunately, the reality here is sometimes a little more complicated than legislation. But overall, this will be a very important step forward, which also responds to the kind of discourse to which we say, Mr Secretary of State, in his introduction, that there have been discussions here in religious robes on certain issues, which are also an appropriate answer to these points. So, in summary, it is good that this bill is here in front of the House. Good work takes time, we support this proposal on behalf of the Jobbik faction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for Jobbik and sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2018-11-28-120	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa may speak. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, It takes time to make a good decision, and I would rather rephrase it this way, since the proposal was in a very similar form, in a form which did not contain any difference in the frame, before the House three years ago, when, at the ministerial meeting, the Jobbik faction gave its support to this law and then did not vote for it in Parliament. To make a good decision, it takes time, and the word in question, I could bring you something like that. But I prefer to express my joy over the fact that now Jobbik thinks that this is eligible. It also reminds me a little bit of the amendment of the Constitution on immigration and resettlement, that when Jobbik needed two thirds, we didn't have it when we didn't need Jobbik for two thirds, then here, on one side, we support this bill together. But it takes time to make a good decision, I understand, and thank you very much for your support. I would like to talk about the importance and great work that churches are doing in society, and I would also like to bring to the House the joyful process of more than doubling the church presence in public education in the last six to seven to eight years, while the involvement of churches in child protection has increased by four times and in foster care by about eight times, and in the social sphere on average by three times, church reservations have tripled in relation to the care of elderly homes and people with disabilities. This is because of this, and we have already argued with Gergely Arató in the bill on census, but the figures show that more than half of the people in Hungary think they belong to denominations in some form, think they are believers, and compared to this, only 12-13 percent of children from kindergarten to high school receive religious education, and 98-99 percent of those who claim to be believers claim to belong to Christian denominations. Here, too, we see a 12 to 13 percent ratio in school maintenance. Obviously, therefore, the fundamentalist human rights organisations calling themselves defenders of rights should not oppose, but rather urge the process that has been going on since 2010 so that the government can facilitate the process so that all parents can send their children to an institution that is best suited to their convictions. On the other hand, there is a liberal opinion dictatorship that is unable to tolerate diverging views, and despite its pronounced phrases on diversity, its goals do not differ much from the social programme of communism: it wants to be uniform and uniform. We see a very dangerous and very wrong direction in Western Europe when they want to remove the cross from the statue of a holy pope in the public square, because they say it doesn't belong there, because they talk about some kind of neutrality of the state, and they talk about statues that don't belong in the public square; or when they break down the Christmas trees, the roadside nativity, they rename the Christmas fairs, they take the crosses off the school walls. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and sue the cabin attendant with the cross around his neck. I think these processes point in an extremely dangerous direction. We also see that in Germany and France more than 500 Protestant or Catholic churches have been closed in one country, so it is a number already over a thousand, and it has been converted into a mosque, discotheque, tavern, or any other function. I think that this is not the direction Hungary has chosen, and in contrast, we have chosen the direction that we have undertaken to strengthen the Jewish-Christian culture of Europe, which is not a persecution of churches, but is seeking lyrics with them and supporting their educational, cultural and social activities. Here, too, we would like to thank and acknowledge the community-building, spiritual care, educating, cultural, social and charitable work of the churches. It is interesting that out of the 6 ordinary members of the Hungarian Charity Council, there are 5 religious backgrounds, and all 3 associated members are religious charities. The churches have undertaken the great work that charities do. I think that's why I should thank them. The bill before us now seeks to address open questions or regulatory issues concerning which both the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg raised objections or which were open questions raised in these forums. In addition, in the long term, it provides a solution to the full implementation of freedom of conscience and religion and to the functioning of the state and religious communities, which are separated under the Fundamental Law, but based on cooperation in the interests of public service tasks and work in the interests of Hungarian society. So churches operate separately from the state, from the government, but to achieve public goals and social goals they form an alliance and co-operate. According to the current amendments, the state does not recognise, but registers churches in court proceedings, with the exception of established churches, where Parliament's decision-making and weighing role remains. In addition to the established churches, the bill provides for the legal possibility of registering other church categories, the registered church and the registered church, as well as the possibility of establishing religious associations on a subject basis in order to ensure the exercise of the Community right to religious freedom. As a basic principle, the bill states that every community that defines itself as a religious community is entitled to the constitutional protection provided by the Fundamental Law to religious communities in the framework of free religious practice. In the area of cooperation between the state and religious communities, the State may also conclude specific agreements with religious communities in order to carry out public tasks, with respect to certain sub-areas, but with registered churches a comprehensive cooperation agreement, which is legally incorporated into the law on the basis of their historical past, their social embeddedness, acceptance and weight, their organisation, and their social responsibility, on the basis of which they become an established church. According to the bill, comprehensive agreements need to be published in a fundamental law. This is an important protection, because we can see that there are, although marginal, political forces in Hungary that are attacking churches and which, in their time, have not yet paid the full allowance to churches, so I think that the protection of two-thirds is justified in any way. However, the current amendment of the law does not understand the legal status of established churches already included in the annex to the Act, and the current law will provide a special preferential opportunity for the 16 religious communities already pending the Parliament's decision to register by court. I think that the bill settles the issues that have been raised at the national or international forum. I think it is important that, because of our existing support, this issue and this law could be brought back to the House, and I think even more so that the alliance with the Churches, the task they provide, and the work they do in Hungary, is irreplaceable. Therefore, churches should be supported in these activities. The bill is supported by the KDNP faction. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-122	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of DK is coming now. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Not so long ago, we celebrated the 450th anniversary if I count well to the Parliament of Torda, which we are all rightly proud of, because it was the first or one of the first public forums to enact the principle of freedom of religion, saying with beautiful words, "When... preachers preach the gospel, proclaim everyone according to his meaning, and if the village wants to buy it, it is good not to be coerced by the soul of anyone who does not rest upon it. More beautifully, I think it is not possible to summarize why we are referring to freedom of religion and what we regard as the state's work on religion, about churches. That's what I'm doing. It means that the state must ensure the conditions for free religious practice for all, and that no one should be forced to exercise a religion that his heart, in his conviction, does not want or hold. I think that when we look at this bill, we should start from this principle and look at it. And while I thank Mr Secretary of State and Mr Tamás Herczeg very much for speaking constructively in this debate about finding a solution and finding the principles that we share; I cannot thank Mr Nacsa for that, because he was the same fake Christian blah-blah that he always was, but I must say that fortunately, the bill does not show this. Let me make a small remark, though. Religious freedom also means that we cannot say in the palace how many churches there should be in Hungary. We can't tell what is much or what is little, that before 2010, there was much, now there are few, because it's not our job. We need clear rules, and on the basis of clear rules, citizens will decide what churches they want to create. [[16.00]] Overall, I must say that the bill is engaged in an almost impossible task, and contrary to what the Member says, this is a significantly better proposal not only for the regulation in force today, but also for your previous miscarriage. This proposal seeks to reconcile European standards, guarantees linked to religious freedom and your rather petty practice. To this end, the bill makes a major and successful experiment in a number of its elements, which can only be found in a few places, and I would like to talk about it at the end. But the consequence of this rope dance, I might say, is this extremely complicated legislation, which categorizes churches in five categories, which is a fine achievement, essentially from the point of view of the lack of full recognition. So this type of regulation is very complicated, very difficult to understand, and is essentially trying to solve the problem of having church communities that are not exactly churches, but almost churches, they have certain rights, but they do not have the right to be churches. We consider this solution to be complicated and unnecessary, but we understand your intention, and we certainly welcome the fact that, at least here, the law sets normative requirements, and from the other side, it puts you in the hands of a court. This was the biggest problem with previous laws, that it made a parliamentary decision and, in most cases, a non-existent parliamentary decision subject to the recognition of churches under normative conditions. In any case, we consider it positive that this is now terminated, that there are objective circumstances and that they are being examined by a court of law. If they had believed this in 2011, we would have been much further ahead in this matter, that it could and should be done this way, and they have long explained in Parliament why this is not a good solution. I'm glad you realize now that this is the only way to solve this fair and square. Where does this logic go, and where does this normative system go? Two places. On the one hand, there are churches who are more religious, who are more equal than others, these are established churches. There should be no misunderstanding, the vast majority of this category are not without exception, but the vast majority are churches with significant social support, historical history and institutional networks. Now, if that's the case, then why do we have to delay the parliamentary decision in these cases? Why do you have to make these churches look like political favors by making Parliament decide on their established church status? This could have been resolved with a simple transitional rule, for such reasons, but the churches that you consider important could have been transferred to a protected status by a transitional rule, and then, in the same way, it could have been left in the jurisdiction of the court to allow for the possibility of new churches to enter this circle, obviously under strict conditions. Why is that important? Because these are the churches to whom practically everything is due, with the existing previous agreements and beyond. I think that the security of the churches concerned would also be better served if they were protected by objective rules and objective judicial decisions, and they would not be at the mercy of the Parliament's decision in this respect either. It's even more revealing that there's a tiny orphan from the great institutions, who can't get into the established churches either before or now. You can guess which one it is: the Hungarian Gospel Brotherhood. Even though it met the conditions of the former law, despite meeting all the conditions today, it is able to say such things as not chasing homeless people by police means. Really, what a Christian that is, they think you are, so I must say that they cannot continue to expect neither fair judgment nor equal conditions, like the other churches. The homeless person who is provided by Malta's Love Service is worthy of special support, because he belongs to the Catholic Church, the homeless person who is provided by the Protection Association or the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood, is not, because it is not such a beautiful church, because his leader has a bad opinion of Viktor Orbán; there was even a Member of Parliament in a dislikable party for you, and that is completely unforgivable. But I am no longer going into the personal threads here, and everyone knows that there was a time when this church was very suitable for Viktor Orbán, but now it is not the spiritual, but the political aspects that are important, it seems, and now it is an unloving church. There is another problem, too, that, while it is true that who can be a church and this is really a step forward, there is an objective system of criteria for who receives public support, there is no objective system of considerations for other churches. Because it is no longer said that social embeddedness and the consideration of this and that will be decided by the government in its infinite wisdom and in its infinite goodwill who otherwise finds fit to conclude a contract. Basically, they can sign contracts with whoever they want. For example, in the educational or social field, it is simply unfair and unfair, because we are talking again about the same thing, that even though it does the same level of public service, he does not receive equal support. In the case of religious support, I think this also raises constitutional issues, because if a person is a church, then why additional conditions must be met in order to support the activity of faith. And let me be clear, there are no large amounts here, because the vast majority of churches that come into other categories are relatively small churches, and would not be eligible for much religious support. Finally, let me point out two more things. One thing is that, of course, we know that the practice differs from the words described. Because what is proposed here is about equal funding for state and municipal institutions, in the field of public service with established churches, and this is the maximum of the grant agreement for other churches. But we know that's not true. All objective measurements and research show that, for example, church schools receive three to four times the support of public schools in terms of real estate expenditure today. And from then on, Congressman Nacsa can be very enthusiastic about how people turn to religion and how the role of churches is increasing. Of course it is growing, because on the one hand they are destroying the state institutions, the state education system, the state social security system, and on the other hand they are filling church institutions with money. Obviously, there are many parents who choose a more well - funded institution in this situation, not out of religious conviction, but in accordance with their common sense. It's just not about religious freedom, on the contrary, it's about forcing the religious teachings that you think are right to impose on those who, in their heart, do not want it, and I would not ask for it. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the fact that you can see how to state the bill? The result is that the transitional provisions sometimes refer to non-existent legislation. I would like to ask the Government, exceptionally, not to entrust the majority of the Legislative Committee with a pro-government vision of where the text needs to be improved from the point of view of the place of law. Since the transitional provisions are extremely important for the ecclesiastical communities that operate today and have been discriminated over for various reasons over the past period, be kind enough to send these proposals to opposition representatives when they are ready, not the last afternoon, but earlier. I promise you, if these are things that are fair, I will be happy to submit them to the Justice or Legislative Committee myself and recommend their adoption. Let's make this fair and square. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, for us, this bill, although we have a positive assessment of the intention to create better regulation for European standards, cannot be accepted because, on the one hand, it continues to maintain churches that are politically and politically selected from among others and put in a favourable position, on the other hand, it does not settle any injustices that have arisen previously, and, thirdly, in the field of the performance and financing of public tasks, it maintains the situation where there are decisions and financing systems which are not equal to the norm, but which are based on the government's favor. I must say that we cannot support this bill, but we are very sorry for that right now, because we can even support the intentions. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-124	Congressman Lajos Korózs, head speaker of the MSZP is coming. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2018-11-28-125	I'll pick up where the congressman left off. That we could even support the intention, but when we go into content matters with regard to the presentation, we already have our doubts, given that here the proposal complies with the legislative obligation, which is based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to draw your attention, Mr House, to the fact that, in 2011, the new law on church law on the initiative of the Fidesz-KDNP government contained a number of provisions which adversely affect small churches. More specifically, these included the withdrawal of church status from the so-called church organizations, as already mentioned here by my fellow Member Arató, including the Brotherhood of the Evangelical Church in Hungary, led by Gábor Iványi. I would like to note here, for the sake of historical loyalty, and in order to keep the record of posterity, he is the person who baptized Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's children. As a result, these cases have been brought before the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, as I have mentioned, since they have not been granted their registered status in the church, and both bodies have also found that fundamental human rights are being violated and that there is a fundamental violation of the law. Furthermore, the Court of Human Rights held that the solutions that led to the withdrawal of ecclesiastical status from former churches were not acceptable and that, by the way, they have been functioning as churches in Hungary for years, more specifically, here for decades. In addition, certain requirements must be met by the rules of church law in order to be constitutional and compatible with human rights. The Court of Human Rights pointed out that if the State does not re-register the former established churches as an established church, it also violates the freedom of association and freedom of religion, including the religious right to unite in religious freedom at the same time. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to mention that, unfortunately, the bill does not meet these requirements, in many respects. On the one hand, it does not settle the situation of former churches that have lost their status as a church because of the post-2010 religious law. In view of the fact that the law does not provide for this, the government misses the zeroth step in the requirements of church law, i.e. to compensate the organisations to which Fidesz-KDNP has harmed. On the other hand, the detailed rules of the proposal presented later do not comply with the principle of non-discrimination between ecclesiastical communities, nor with the requirement of a world-neutral state, in my opinion. In short, with regard to churches, the government is only interested in money and the opportunity to vote. Nevertheless, the proposal contains a number of positive steps, and I do not dispute that, in the context of ecclesiastical status, it creates two more ecclesiastical status in addition to the two so far, and provides for a judicial path to obtain them and to change them, except for the churches in which they are established, the state cooperates more closely with them, and such a practice, according to the Court of Human Rights, is appropriate and provides for the possibility of obtaining state aid in a somewhat larger circle than before. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Bearing in mind the requirements set out in the decisions of the Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court, it can be said that the proposal does not meet the requirement of a neutral state and does not guarantee freedom of religion of conscience and religion. The proposal builds a gradual system, this is indisputable, on the basis of which a church legal person is basically, at least as I have read it, classified in four categories: a religious association, as mentioned here, a registered church, a registered church and an established church. The religious association is basically an association, it is also a special form. A derogation from the Association principle that they do not have to include an association name on their behalf and may use the name of the Church. This is the basic church form, which can be founded by up to ten persons according to the association rules. In principle, associations are not eligible for State aid, but a percentage of the tax can be offered to them. This in itself is not contrary to the practice of AB and the Court of Human Rights; the Court of Human Rights itself has acknowledged that in the case of smaller, new churches, a grace period is justified until the church is known. The real problems then begin, and on the basis of the rules that follow, we can say that faith life is important to Fidesz because of money and votes, because it depends on how many individuals have offered up a percentage of these churches. Thus, the registered church requires thousands of such individuals to be registered: to become an established church requires a comprehensive agreement with the state, which is not subject to tax. This in itself is objectionable, since, on the one hand, the life of faith is bound by the obligation to pay the claim: therefore, neither the unemployed, nor the pensioners, nor those who do not pay for other reasons, can legally participate in the founding of the church, and on the other hand, it is not justified to grant a condition other than the number of members, since life of faith is essentially a matter of conscience and not of money. The proposal also provides a faster and simpler solution. This is based on the number of members and not on a percentage of them, but the proposal also lays down an additional requirement in this regard, namely that, in the context of their religious or public activities, the church thus authorised, registered or registered should not require state, EU or international support through an individual system of assessment. This in itself indicates that for Fidesz the life of faith is only about money, and it proves that it was originally removed from certain churches because they considered the state aid they had to give them a great deal. Dear House, It should also be noted in this regard what regulation means for disenfranchised churches. In their case, the law gives a discount if they were still engaged in a religious activity before 2011 with this time being included in the requirement for a change of status, but the law does not grant such exemption or relief in respect of a percentage of the tax. In other words, if the disenfranchised churches cannot produce statistics on the fact that in recent years the number of offers of one percent has reached one thousand or four thousand pieces, they cannot continue to be placed in higher church status unless they waive the possibility of applying for funds by tender. And obviously they won't be able to show up the percentage because they couldn't have received these offerings in recent years. It is also important to point out that these statuses are important primarily because of the level of state aid, as the state is increasing in support of religious activity as it progresses at levels. The religious association does not benefit from this in the context of religious activities, for example, it may receive state aid for public purposes and is entitled only to one percentage of the tax. However, this situation is in itself counterproductive, since, although all grace periods are justified in the case of a newly established church, it is therefore justified to grant state aid in connection with the life of faith, and even subject to the practice of the Court of Human Rights, to provide the State with the operation of the churches and to assist it in its operation. The Court of Human Rights has pointed out in particular that the State has a positive institutional protection obligation to help the exercise of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion. A similar situation can be encountered in the case of a registered church. The fundamental difference between the two forms is that the state can enter into an agreement to support the activities of faith and the activities of the public, for up to ten years in the case of five registered churches in the case of an association. It is important to draw attention here to the fact that if an association becomes a registered church by giving up the possibility of individual subsidies, it will only be able to obtain support through percentage points. The first substantial difference is found in the registered church, where the State already has a positive obligation at the level of the proposal, under which the State is obliged to provide additional support in relation to the percentage. The established church gains its status with a comprehensive agreement with the state. A further requirement in this regard is only to be a registered church. With regard to this church form, the State's positive obligation is already complete, and the State's obligation to provide budgetary support in relation to its religious and public activities. At this level, the churches from whom Fidesz has taken away the established church status should be restored, but the financial aspect of this is visible, given the state's obligations. [[16.20]] Based on these, there really is no doubt that faith life for Fidesz is a question of money. In particular, it should be pointed out that the State is required by the proposal to provide support to religious communities with legal personality, but only to carry out public activities. The fundamental difference in support is therefore linked to faith and not to public activity. In its decision, the Court of Human Rights pointed out that the State should not engage in practices that discriminate between religious communities on the basis of some criteria. In the present case, however, the State does this precisely because, in the case of a religious community, it also supports religious activity with state resources in the case of registered churches, while only 1 percent of the other forms of organization serve this purpose. Thus, the State discriminates on religious matters, which cannot be fully justified in respect of religious associations, despite the fact that a minimum period of grace is justified, however, no grounds for refusing to grant the aid in respect of registered churches can be imposed at all. The state clearly takes a position on matters of faith, considers some more important, others less important, and does not fulfil its institutional responsibility for freedom of religion and conscience, as it does not support religious activity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said above, the proposal is unacceptable to us, in particular because it does not give back the legal status of churches whose infringement has already been established on several occasions by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, in so far as there is evidence that they are entitled to compensation. Secondly, because it is clear that the churches that Fidesz does not like are only a financial burden for Fidesz, but therefore the state support for religious activities is not in place in certain religious communities, so that regulation is unduly and irreprehensiblely discriminates between certain religious communities. Prohibition of discrimination is a requirement for freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, which has been highlighted by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. To sum up, it can be said that although the proposal contains progress, such as the provision of a judicial path, the provision of intermediate status, but the main problems, such as religious discrimination, the compensation of disenfranchised churches, do not remedy or provide any assistance to them. As a result, our group will not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-28-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow opposition Members have already said, the legislative amendment proposal before us contains all the elements that are welcome in every way, but I would like to point out that the concordant opinion of the European Court of Human Rights and of the Constitutional Court had to state that the previous and still existing legislation is seriously violating, discriminating and not worthy of a European rule of law, is not worthy of a Member State of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to ask you questions, because this legislative amendment proposal will put an end to the six-year debate, which, however, is not enough in the unanimous opinion of the Hungarian Liberal Party. When domestic civilians, the opposition, churchmen spoke out about the violation of the law, why didn't you change me? Why have you not noticed that the provision of state-of-law standards in the area of religious freedom is also very important? Why did the European Court of Justice have to intervene? Why did Strasbourg have to decide to appeal to a serious discrimination against the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood? You have used the last six years to distribute privileges to the religious denominations that please the government, while at the same time keeping our countrymen who have not won the sympathy of the parliamentary majority in disrepute. This has been the case since 2012, within the framework of the system of national cooperation called religious freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, You refer to freedom of religion and conscience as a justification for the legislative proposal, but you call it a Christian democracy, which our fellow Europeans can only interpret as an ongoing violation of the rule of law and as a force for the government's values to the majority society. I hold in my hand the law still in force [[Showing:]] This law did not merely disenfranchise certain groups of our fellow countrymen, but hindered them from pursuing their charitable activities. This law has hindered them when they have also undertaken to assume social obligations and tasks to be performed by the state and by a public institution, and have done so out of charity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In what way do you intend to compensate the religious communities that were severely discriminated against by this Act of 2012? In what way do you intend to ensure that these churches, and I think most of all about the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood, can regain the struggles of the past six years lost and continue to function in a stable way? I would also like to ask you why, when reference is made to freedom of conscience and religion, Christendom's primacy is proclaimed in its everyday activities against other world religions. There is a fair regulation at several points in the amendment proposal before us. We could argue about numbers, we could argue whether the one-percent sija offerings from the good intentions of taxpayers have anything to do with church status or not. We could argue about how many years a church has had to operate, or how many church communities need to have to be an established church. We can argue about the status of ecclesiastical status and what they are not. However, what cannot be the subject of debate in Europe is the principle of freedom of conscience and religion, equal dignity and equal treatment, and that is what you have been taken away from certain religious communities over the past six years, and unfortunately, the current regulation is still not enough, although, as my fellow Members have already said, it is true that it contains elements that are forward-looking. Finally, I would like to ask why the European Court of Human Rights had to intervene and pressure the Hungarian Government in order to make at least these minimum progress. Why don't they realize we're living in Europe? Why do they not realize that we need equal treatment in terms of individuals, as in religious and social communities? Unfortunately, I must say that the current law cannot guarantee this, despite the fact that it is a step forward in any way that Parliament no longer wishes to decide what we can declare to the Church or which we cannot. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-28-128	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Polish national advocate Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-129	Szanowny Panie Marszałku, szanowni posłowie, szanowni rzecznicy, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie. Panie Marszałku, dziękuję za udzielenie mi głosu. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Welcome, everyone. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities of 2011 CCVI. T/3618. The EESC feels concerned about the number 1 proposal. On 26 November 2018, the Committee decided unanimously, with 12 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, to join the detailed debate on the bill and to make any amendments. In general, religion plays an important role in the lives of most nationalities in Hungary, forming an integral, inalienable part of the identity of nationality. [[16.30]] According to the data of the 2011 Hungarian census, 644 623 people interviewed about the religion claimed to belong to one of the 13 Hungarian nationalities, and only 8353 of them considered themselves atheists, which is only 1.3 percent of the number mentioned. Nationality consciousness and ethnic tradition can only be inherited from generation to generation if more and more generations can be born into it and learn about it. We must also take responsibility for the upbringing of younger generations. In the case of nationalities living in the diaspora, the three most important areas of transmission are the family, the ethnic school and the religious environment of nationality. The adoption of the draft legislative amendment will result in a very positive and important change for us members of the Hungarian nationalities, since subsequently 19/A. Pursuant to Section 5 of the Act, the minority government will be able to organise a religious education in the educational institution it maintains, the costs of which will be borne by the State on the basis of an agreement with the church concerned. This means that the state really regards the culture and religious traditions of nationalities as a value, the preservation and transfer of which is in the public interest, and in view of this, it will continue to cover not only the costs of teaching nationality but also the costs of teaching faith organised within it. Nationalities in Hungary can claim to be lucky here in Hungary, because the principles of the Hungarian legal order, the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law are protected not only by the laws applying individual human rights, but also by collective human rights. I quote an example from the National Creed of the Fundamental Law:. We acknowledge that individual freedom can only be unfolded in cooperation with others. We believe that the most important framework of our living together is family and nation, the fundamental values of our belongings are loyalty, faith and love. A further example is the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. a proposed amendment to the Act, which does not merely allow the exercise of collective law, but also supports it financially. The amendment creates genuine equality between churches in the light of the principle of equal treatment, while at the same time maintaining harmony with the Basic Law, which is included in the National Creed:, We recognise the role of Christianity as a national preserver. We appreciate the different religious traditions of our country. After the amendment, the state can develop its attitude towards individual religions in an unassailable way, taking into account their actual social weight and importance. The religions of Hungarian ethnicities are also related to Christianity. According to the 2011 census data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the majority of religious ethnicities were Roman Catholics. Not so long ago, two weeks ago, I spoke before you about the times when Poland did not exist on the map of Europe for 123 years. Now I have to give an example of the role of the national savior that was then and of the 20th century. The Polish Church also played in the 80s of the century. Karol Wojtyła, the pope-to-be, encouraged believers not to be afraid. Most of all, the people who have brought about positive changes in the nation's history have gathered around the church. It is enough to mention even the name of the father Popiełisko, who suffered martyrdom in the name of faith and freedom. The church was the force that has always created smaller and larger communities, which for centuries maintained faith and hope in a better future. I remember that some 30 years ago, when I arrived in Hungary, and on one Sunday I went to the Holy Mass at one of the temples in Budapest, I was terrified of the emptiness that I faced: there was no one in the church except me and some old ladies. They explained to me that all of this was the result of the moral destruction that the Communists managed to accomplish under their rule in Hungary. I honestly admit that all of this made a scary and sad impression on me at the same time. I also remember that my daughter became a first communionist in Poland because she didn't have the opportunity to go to church school here. Luckily, it's all in the past. Since then, much has changed in Hungary. In the context of this bill, it is worth recalling that Poland and Hungary have been, and are, the guardians of Christian Europe over the past centuries, but today they use other means to do so: for example, to ensure the exercise of faith by law. Of course, attitude to faith is a private matter of the individual, but a national community or a ethnic community must not forget what culture it has grown from and cannot turn its back on the unique storehouse of values and traditions for centuries. As citizens of Europe, we must remember the statement made by the excellent politician Robert Schuman, a father of the European Union, whether he will be a Christian or not. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary joins the detailed debate on the legislative proposal on the basis of the concerns expressed in my contribution. Thank you for listening. Dziekuję za uwagę!
u2018-11-28-130	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches, first from Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, in two minutes.
u2018-11-28-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is an outrage, however, that Mr Arató and Mr Korózs have spoken before the Parliament about what we are trying to support the churches in terms of money and voting. [[Lajos Korózs: Sure, yes!]] You say that because of that frustration... I must obviously refuse to do so, because it is a despicable statement, and it is not true at all, because you have nothing to say to the churches because you have reduced the support of the churches in your own time, and because you have not taken any steps against the business churches in your role as a government, you have not initiated any action against the business churches. Here he said that funding for church schools is in some way three to four times the surplus. [[Lajos Korózs: Even under their skin, there is money.]] Every year, the annual accounts of the State Audit Office show that there is still a balance resolution for the government each year towards the churches, so, let alone receiving more, there is nothing of this kind, and this is due to them on the basis of the Vatican agreement. The fact that we have heard Iványi-lobbyists here, because you said that it is not up to the Parliament to decide politically who can be a church, who can't, yet you have started lobbying here for a piece of church, a pastor, all three of you have started lobbying with Mr. Arató. [[16.40]] I think that when a Catholic or Protestant leader speaks on a political matter, you are the first to object to how, on what basis, the church leader is political. At the same time, if Gábor Iványi speaks in any way and, say, finds that he would send the government to prison, or that the Prime Minister of Satan is his quotes, then you raise him to the shield, applaud him, and say that this is in full place to claim these. I would like to say that you should ask him not only that, and not just that, because the Church of Gábor Iványi received a compensation of HUF 2 billion following the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, or in a separate public education contract, his school or public education institutions will receive that additional support on the basis of a separate public education contract. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which, by the way, goes to other churches. I'll keep going, thank you.
u2018-11-28-132	Congressman Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2018-11-28-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In addition to the hunger for money and the maximum number of votes, I think there was only one thing that was really disfigured by the debate on the bill: when Mr Arató called Lőrinc Nacsa a false Christian. However, I am pleased that, on the basis of this comment, it seems to me that not only government parties, but also an opposition party, consider this really important piece of legislation worthy of acceptance. During her speech, I remembered that this year Békéscsaba celebrates the 100th anniversary of her declaration as a city and was installed 300 years ago by Slovak Lutherans. I'm also grateful as a Catholic. It is special that Mr Arató suggested that a truly global tolerant decision was taken 450 years ago at the Parliament in Torda, but that they decided on the equality of four religions there. Just that, where possible, this law is trying to make exact, normative rules. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Anett, that there are some places where there really cannot be. So there are places where Parliament can take a position in some way in accordance with its historical and social role, their social acceptance, their embeddedness, their organisation and their experience in their traditional public life activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-134	Congresswoman Anett, two minutes.
u2018-11-28-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to your suggestions. It is very right that the legislator does everything to ensure that different communities do not establish churches for tax avoidance, and we know these phenomena, and we know this phenomenon in this country. But I think that when a religious community has been convinced for decades that it has performed various social and charitable tasks, it is pursuing a life of faith and providing a community that gives hands to those who are fallen when no one else has left them, then there is no reason to believe that there is no deliberate discrimination of some kind on the part of the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood. So I would not, in this sense, mash the business churches, either with the case of the Gospel Brotherhood or with small churches, which we do not yet know about. So I think it is appropriate to mention a severely discriminated small church, which has been in great difficulty over the past six years, and it is not by accident that the Strasbourg court has judged this 2 billion forint, which is still below the amount that they have fallen from because of the previous regulation. So I think you should consider this, my fellow pro-government Members. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-136	Thank you very much. Speech by the representatives of Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2018-11-28-137	Thank you very much. I do not want to abuse the confidence of this House, so I will not exhaust the normal time frame, but the two minutes have proved to be a little short to respond to what my fellow opposition Members have to say. I would like to say that the Methodist Church is part of the established churches, and it is included in the 32 established churches, it is also included in the annex to the current law, from which Gábor Iványi stood one day, quit and founded his own church. Why should this automatically give him any additional rights when the church, whose loans, its historical function, its adherents can be found within the framework of the Methodist Church? In the same place, the Methodist Church is in its rightful place. Gábor Iványi, for the record, is the one who nominated George Soros for the Nobel Peace Prize. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So that says a lot about his operation and his political attitude. Once again, everyone else who speaks in a rhetoric similar to the ruling parties, or in support of government measures, will be immediately condemned by you, and immediately on TV and social media, will be told on what basis the church dares to interfere in politics, on what basis the shoemaker should remain at the gate, why the church is political. At the same time, if Gábor Iványi is doing this alone, then obviously all the cameras, microphones and photographers of the balliberal media are just passing by. So I think that this double standard of yours is inappropriate and inappropriate. Let's go back to the fact that, as I said, on the basis of the public education contract, the Hungarian Gospel Brotherhood receives it. I don't want to talk about it anymore. In other words, I would like to respond to one more thing that struck my ears in the speech by Mrs Anett Bősz, on what basis we believe that Christianity can enjoy some sort of advantage here or that Christian democracy is also included in the word. Congresswoman, Europe is built on Christianity, Christian religion and Christian culture. Our fundamental law recognizes the role of Christendom as a national preserver. It was St. Stephen, our first king to bind Hungary to the Christian Europe. Because on this continent, Christianity has brought the culture, wealth, and science that we have experienced for the past century. Because Europe's Christian roots are indisputable, and because the majority of the people who say they are religious here say they belong to one of the Christian denominations in Hungary. On this basis, there can be no other... of course there are other world religions, we are talking about five great world religions, but there are these religions in other parts of the world. Here, in Europe and Central Europe, it is Christianity that has kept these nations for centuries, raised these nations, and we believe that this is the future of this continent, and not the self-destruction that I mentioned in my speech as chief speaker, that we will take the crosses off in advance, and that we will end the Christmas fairs and crosses on the side of the road, and we believe that this is the right attitude and proper posture. We believe that the right posture is to have a social alliance with churches, because the work of churches is value-making and important. We believe that the right posture is to respect and recognise the Christian culture on which this country and this continent are built and must be protected. It is now part of our Fundamental Law that it has been included in the Fundamental Law in order to protect this identity and our Christian culture, how important this is and how much the bodies of the state are responsible for protecting it. I think that bringing here the basis on which Christianity became here... is a historical fact. St. Stephen made the decision and made the right decision, which is why he received the crown from the Pope of Rome, which is 80 meters from you. Sometimes it is worth putting yourself in this historical context, since we are so lucky to be able to work in such a place and see such important things here today in Parliament or in Parliament's building. I think that this should not be questioned, and that we will be put at risk, and that our identity and our entire European way of life and our culture will be put at risk if we start talking about these in denial mode, and if we start questioning these values. Robert Schuman did not say for a reason that Europe would or will not become a Christian. For the past 60 to 70 years, all political innovations in Europe have been linked to Christian Democrats. The European Union, as an economic community, was also linked to Christian democratic politicians as a community to maintain peace. What we see is that these people have been politically politicalised on a value-based basis, with a value-saving view of the community as important. They have been able to create political innovations like the European Union, and we believe that it is a value to be protected, and I would like them not to be questioned from time to time by Balliberian politicians. And try to get away from the SZDSZ spiritual heritage that regarded churches as a kind of enemy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-138	I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says no. [[16.50]] Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions will follow until closure. Government referral T/3613. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-139	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The bill before you is another milestone in the government's construction and bureaucracy reduction measures. In 2015, the Government adopted a government decision on a plan for restructuring construction, in which it designated the tasks that contribute to simplifying the bureaucracy of construction and to the development of quality architecture. Following the government decision, I will highlight only a few of the most important measures here. At the end of 2015, the simple notification procedure was introduced, which helped and helped to achieve family construction, as the duration of the procedure was significantly shortened, citizens' liability was reduced in the process, while the planning responsibility was increased. In 2016, the Law on the Protection of the City Picture was born. In this way, the protection of the settlement image and the settlement planning have been established on a new basis. With this, a public consensus-based, citizen-formed and voluntary law-abiding regulation has started in Hungary, which preserves local culture. The municipal visual manuals and municipal regulations were completed in 2017. The government gave a HUF 1 billion grant to smaller and poorer settlements. In the spring of 2017, certain laws were amended to improve Hungary's competitiveness, which allowed county and municipal authorities access to the free digital ground office base map. The planning costs of county and municipal authorities decreased by several million HUF, and since these plans form the basis for investment, they contribute to the rapid implementation of investments. This is how we came to the last yet most important milestone of red tape reduction, the renewal of spatial planning plans. The provisions of the Land Planning Act are the most important means of safeguarding Hungary's values of national importance and coordinating the local government's tasks of settlement planning. With the new spatial planning law prepared by the Prime Minister's Office, the government and the Parliament set a framework for all investments in Hungary, given that spatial planning and settlement planning plans determine the area use of each region of the country and settlements, including where and under what conditions can be achieved. With modern spatial planning, Hungary's competitiveness will be significantly strengthened. The bill must be familiar to many of them, since it was discussed by the Parliament at the end of 2017, but no final vote was taken, and it was entrusted to the newly elected parliament after the election. In the past period, the bill has been revised, simplified, with a total of 14 zones, with too detailed rules, we intend to establish a ministerial decree. In addition, a number of land-use rules will be set at a lower level of legal resources. However, the most important values for the country have all been retained in the law. Dear House, Over the past period, we have placed increasing emphasis on matching the different sectoral registers in relation to the Land Planning Bill, as their lack of consistency makes a number of investments impossible or delayed. A new element is therefore included in the amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act, whereby sectors are obliged to bring their registers into line with the land register within a year. Beyond this law, our ultimate goal is for municipalities and investors to be able to read publicly about all sectoral conditions that affect their development through a single channel. One of the biggest innovations of this bill is its free, digitally accessible representation of the main protection values and development intentions in a way compatible with the real estate registration map. The bill is therefore one of the most important parts of the bureaucracy reduction in construction as follows: we are switching to the use of the basic digital property register map. The outdated, inaccurate basic maps are replaced by the digital ground office basic map. Spatial planning and urban planning will now take place on a single basis, the benefits of which are that plans will better match each other, which will result in faster and cheaper planning, greater coherence, which will ultimately result in faster investment and other improvements. Instead of three legally accepted spatial planning plans, the national, the Balaton Featured Resort and the Budapest agglomeration plan, a piece of design law is created. The 43 Waterfront Rehabilitation Ministerial Decrees in Balaton will be issued after the adoption of this Act, instead being governed by a ministerial decree. During the preparation of the bill, we also consulted almost 500 partners, such as sectors, municipalities, civil and professional organisations, and their views were incorporated into the proposal, thus reducing conflicts and discussions are expected during the implementation. The rules on land use so far will become more flexible, making it easier to prepare urban plans, which form one of the foundations of the investment, including the "Modern Cities" programme. It is important that the protection of nature conservation, environmental protection and built environmental values is not reduced or even strengthened in most cases. Supporting improvements in less valuable areas will be a priority. We strengthen the coordinating role of county municipalities, thus making the use of territorial development resources more efficient. Rights acquired are not withdrawn from the bill, there is no claim for compensation. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, I would like your votes to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-11-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the general debate on the draft legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions before us, it is worth noting that spatial planning and settlement planning are a very, very important tool for making investments. Since 2010, economic development and job creation have been among the priorities of government objectives in Hungary, thus creating the right territorial needs for the necessary investments is also a key issue for the country's development and economic development. Investments involving economic development should pay particular attention to protecting our natural, regional and built environmental values. This optimal balance, as far as possible, has a very important role to play in spatial and settlement planning. The aim of spatial planning is to define the long-term harmonious spatial structure of Hungary and its regions, in line with the interests of the economy, with a view to sustainable development, by preserving Hungary's outstanding natural and cultural values. [[17.00]] The objectives of spatial planning are pursued through the hierarchy of spatial planning plans and settlement planning instruments. The priority regional and county spatial planning plans complement the framework regulation of the national spatial planning plan. Together, they convey national and regional land use decisions to the municipalities, of course not distracting local authorities from the right to impose the final land use requirements and the construction conditions themselves. In 2015, the government decided to initiate or implement significant bureaucracy cuts in the field of construction. As Mr Secretary of State has just mentioned, a first step in this process was introduced at the end of 2015 by the institution of a simple announcement, with which the government was actually trying to help constructions below 300 sq m, i.e. family home creation. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] With the simple notification procedure, both licensing time and planning costs have been significantly reduced, thereby facilitating the widespread use of opportunities such as family home-building benefits. In 2016, the Parliament adopted the law on the protection of the settlement image, which was intended to create a system for building the most important building conditions for the builders to be simply formulated in an understandable manner, the municipal picture rules should be based on consensus with the agreement of the local population. In the spring of 2017, it was also in the spirit of cutting bureaucracy in the field of construction, and as a next stage, that it was possible to create access to the free digital ground office basic maps necessary for the construction of spatial planning and settlement planning plans. At present, this so-called bureaucracy reduction in construction, which is also one of the milestones of construction, ends with a bill on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions, as this will determine the development possibilities for each region and include the most important natural, landscape and built environmental protection. Although this bill is a new law, it will in fact arrange three spatial planning plans adopted by the laws in force into a bouquet, i.e. the national spatial planning plan, the agglomeration spatial planning plan in Budapest and the spatial planning plan of the Balaton Highest Holiday Region. During the preparation of the bill, the government made sure that the levels of protection were not reduced and that the building rights acquired were not withdrawn. The thoroughness of the work, I think, is also well demonstrated by the fact that, in preparation, the government has consulted almost 500 partners, including the local authorities involved, professional and civil society organisations and, of course, various sectors. Accordingly, the country's land use system, protection zone and related rules have also been updated. I would like to refer briefly to you on the most important amendments. The frame character of the national spatial planning plan will be strengthened, the lower level planning will become more flexible, making the construction of county spatial planning plans and settlement planning plans easier. The national decisions of this bill, whether to place a transport network element or even to define the ecological network in depth, can be clarified according to certain rules, so that the land use system will not be frozen by the adoption of the law, and there is no need for new amendments to the area of a larger investment element. Perhaps the greatest value of the agglomeration spatial planning plan in Budapest is that it seeks to prevent the complete integration of the already overcrowded agglomeration and the total elimination of natural values. In addition to protecting values, it also gives territorially affected municipalities a balanced and moderate development opportunity. The current 2 percent rule remains, i.e. local authorities can increase development areas by that much compared to existing built-in areas. In addition, the bill sets out an additional 1 per cent development opportunity in the closed gardens, giving the municipalities the opportunity to develop former closed gardens and to carry out their respective urban management tasks. In the case of Lake Balaton, the area planning plan or, more commonly known, the area use system of the Lake Balaton Law is perhaps the most complex. As a Balatoni man, I believe that this is one of Hungary's most respected and paying the most attention, which all Hungarian citizens feel belongs to, whether it is a local resident or a tourist. A significant part of tourism is concentrated in and around Lake Balaton, so there is a strong investment intention, but at the same time the Balaton region also has a number of natural values, which I think it is our joint task and our common interest. The best possible balance between the two factors must be found. It is clear from the Balaton part of the bill that the Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. Accordingly, the proposal strongly protects the use of land and facilities for public purposes, relating to tourism and the use of leisure time. It also protects the use of existing beaches and green areas, i.e. public parks and public spaces, for other purposes. Among the rules of the Balaton background areas, the protection of garden, agricultural areas and vineyard cadastral areas emerge. The image of Lake Balaton is significantly defined by these farming methods, and therefore the use of land in these areas, which lasts for centuries, and which strongly defines the landscape character, should be supported. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for drawing up the content of the proposal and for our request for the seat of my constituency, Siófok, to be heard. In particular, it was weeks ago that we initiated a personal consultation with the leader of the Fidesz fraction in Siófok, in the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, in order to name the trail of the southern bypass, adopted by the Siófok body of representatives, at the legal level. It seems that our request has been heard, and according to the Government's decision, the trail of the southern bypass of Siófok has been included in this proposal. I believe that this is an extremely important step forward in this case, as this will enable preparatory work to begin with regard to the new trail designated by the municipality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, the backbone of the bill is the spatial planning plan of the national, the Budapest agglomeration and the Balaton Special Region, but the proposal before us also includes a minor or greater amendment to other laws. Among these, I would like to highlight the amendment of the law on the protection of the image of settlements, which will take place in order to ensure that the protection of settlements of areas with national aesthetic value can be established within the framework of a national framework, within which, of course, municipal authorities can continue to define detailed settlement image decisions, requirements and expectations. At the same time, the proposal includes an amendment to the environmental law for meteorological measuring stations. This is because the question of meteorological measuring stations, i.e. observatorys, has not yet been defined in the environmental sector. In fact, it can be said that until now, there has been no legislation laying down construction conditions in the environment of observatorys. In the opinion of the meteorologist profession, the safety of measurements may be compromised by the construction activity under current regulations, and we have also seen a concrete example of this in recent years, including at the seat of my constituency in Siófok. That is precisely why this bill leads to the concept of a measuring station, so that, after the adoption of the law, it will be possible to provide for both the protection distance of the measuring stations and the detailed construction conditions. The proposal before us is also linked to the amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act, which is also essential, as the public registers of the various sectors are quite simply conflicting, making it difficult for the various authorities to take action and the ideas of investors. In many cases, these contradictions only emerge during the implementation phase of investment and thus often prevent actual implementation. It is therefore essential that the consistency between registers is finally established. Unfortunately, I could also give an example of this type of case from my constituency, namely Zamárdi, where a company was forced to look for a new establishment or set up a new establishment precisely because of such and similar conflicting property registration claims or data. To sum up, therefore, I believe that the drafting of the draft legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions is a significant step forward in spatial and settlement planning, which, in fact, seeks to establish a common framework to regulate the feasibility of investments involving economic development and the balance between safeguarding our natural, regional and built environmental values. As I mentioned earlier, in preparing the proposal, the government also discussed the content of the law with almost 500 partners, including the municipalities concerned, professional and civil society organisations and, of course, the sectors concerned. I therefore believe that the debate on the proposal has been preceded by appropriate social consultation. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that, following a constructive debate, their votes support the adoption of the proposal contained in this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-142	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Witzmann. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[17.10]]
u2018-11-28-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give a special welcome to Deputy State Secretary Zsolt Füleky, who is sitting in the box; I welcome him for having participated in a number of consultations, whether at the Balaton Association or at the Balaton Development Council, and indeed, as expressed both in the expoze and in my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann's speech in the lead speaker's speech, there has been a wide-ranging social consultation on this subject. We are in the debate on the draft legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions, and let me take a little historical overview before I get to the details. Previously, in 2000, 2003 and 2005, three separate laws, in OTRT, BKÜTRT and BATRT, regulated the procedural rules, the spatial planning tasks that are now defined in this single law. As a matter of fact, the general justification shows that they came into force at different times, that they needed to be merged, that they were harmonised, that simplification was dominated, and that it could also be a solution to economic and geographical changes. So it was considered necessary for this to be regulated in a law. In 2017, as was said in the expo, T/388 was already. There has been a debate on bill No. 1 and it has been submitted to Parliament. This was preceded by a five-party consultation, and my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs took part and made suggestions, as she is an architect in her profession, who, I believe, has the most competence within the group to give an opinion on the 388 and now the 3613 bill. So I specifically agreed with him on the points in which we ask the government to think, to make sure that everything is okay, as laid out in this. I'd like to move on to general remarks. Firstly, we have also seen and said that they intend to lay down detailed rules in ministerial regulations. We find this problematic, precisely because the government decree and ministerial decrees will no longer be brought before the House, so there will be no debate about them, and its concerns cannot be expressed by the opposition. We consider this to be of great concern, precisely because the system will be less transparent than if it were laid down in a law. And when we were preparing for this debate with my fellow Member, Mr Hegedűs, we looked into what had changed between the proposals of 388 tabled earlier and the current bill of 3613, and indeed there is one that was still included in the case of 388, but is now subject to a ministerial decree in this new one. We therefore find this to be a concern, please consider that some of these are at least incorporated into the law, so that at least at the Commission stage, in the detailed debate, we can express our position. The next thing I would like to mention is the preference for brownfield investments in areas intended for new installation. It is stated in such a way that, if there is a possibility for developments to be made in brownfield investments, it should be preferred and less greenfield investments. However, there is a condition in there that, if this costs disproportionately high, it can be achieved as a brownfielder, so the development can proceed. The question is who will determine what is a disproportionately high cost, because we are practically not seeing it from this law. One more general point before we go to the highlighted section is the rule of the mining sector. I didn't hear anything about it in the expo or in the pro-government speech. We are concerned that the qualification to be a mining site may occur in such a way that, if the municipality has not yet completed the full re-reclassification of the property into a mine, the process can start without being carried over through the settlement facilities. So if it's a municipality and it's just Paks II. and I would like to mention the village of Madocsa to decide to approve this gravel mine, then take a decision, and then one day the process will start, and then it will end in months or years. So this is the other one that we find extremely worrying. We know how to hurry, because the investments are starting, but there is a way and a place for everything. A body of representatives does not always have professionals who can decide that, professionals are architects for a reason, so that they can determine them. I believe that the delegation of this power to the body of representatives is a rather irresponsible decision. As the old legal environment, OTRT, BATRT and BKÜTRT have been built, I would like to mention two little things for the first time in the Budapest agglomerational settlement plan. To our proposal, therefore, on the proposal of Mrs Hegedűsné, it was at this five-party meeting that the integration of the special area not intended for installation does not exceed 3 percent of the total area. It's a very good direction. Thank you so much for putting this in there. We've counted so much that it's still high, but it can now create a barrier to large investments, to the extent to which the built-in in these special areas is not intended for installation. We also consider it positive that it has not changed that the increase in the area of settlements intended for installation should not exceed 2 per cent and the conditions have been tightened. So we believe that these are positive shifts in terms of the agglomeration area in Balaton compared to previous regulations. And then we can move to Lake Balaton High Resort. Surprisingly little has been said about the campsites, the ports... [[Lajos Korózs: Why?]] Well, that's what I'm asking, and that's what I'd like to ask you, and I really hope that Secretary of State will answer because you've been very avoiding these issues. I'd like to begin with our concerns. I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that they would be regulated in ministerial regulations or government regulations, and we found something that could belong to two areas at the same time, so several ministries will be involved. In the case of the detachment of coastal areas and the use of the public waterfront area and the coastal protection plant, we have assessed it as if one part of it belonged to the Ministry of Land Planning and the other part to the Ministry of Water Control. Obviously, because the lake bed is there, and it has to be a separate ministry... But it could have been one thing, or it would have been best if it had been done within the framework of the law. I also know, because Deputy Secretary of State Füleky said that this is necessary because it is difficult to bring this legislation through Parliament and to make amendments, and it is easier to amend a ministerial regulation if they are regulated in this, but we think that this too should be thought about how this could be more appropriate. We regret that in the law, areas falling from the coast to 50 metres in the outer areas could only have been classified in nature, water management and forest areas. This was in bill 388, it's out. It would have been very good if it had continued to be possible to use these outer areas for these purposes in that 50 - meter band. There is also such a definition, and I think my fellow Members in the LMP will very much mention it: the bill of 2017 also stated that discharge of sewage and precipitation water to Lake Balaton is prohibited. That's not in this bill right now. We've looked over it several times, we haven't found it, but if you are, please confirm that you can let him in at Keszthely now, because it would have been forbidden so far. [[17.20]] Next up is shipping and ports. There will also be a government decree to regulate this. I note quietly that we must also go to Keszthely to see what is happening, but not only in Keszthely, but also in the other Balaton region. The question of boat ports is related to this. I don't know if Deputy Secretary of State can confirm that a few mayors have raised their voice against the boat docks with 20 seats per two kilometres. For example, in Siófok's 15 - mile [17 km] section, we may not want an 8 - 20 - seat boatport. I think you might want to think about that. The biggest pitfall in this story is the possibility of establishing a boatport with more than 20 seats, if not prohibited by the nature conservation authority. But the law doesn't say what the maximum is right now. Then it could have been a maximum, so it wouldn't have 100 seats or 200 seats. The thing is, 20, this is the lower limit, it can be every two kilometers, and it can be higher if you contribute. We think it is very right that at last, and this is very important to the 70th. It was stated that the availability of Lake Balaton to everyone is a public interest. It's very important, and we're very happy for you, and that's all we need to do. We should ensure that everyone has access to Lake Balaton and that everyone can finally walk on coastal promenades, and not apartment houses, so that they grow out of the ground one by one, which takes away the view of Lake Balaton, and after a while we will see that the sections are closed. There is also an amendment that I would like to ask you about. In 388, the width of the waterfront promenade was another 10 metres, which was reduced to 5 metres. I think I've read the justification, and I don't think that's well enough. I trust the Secretary of State will answer that. It was also included in the 388 that a dwelling swimming establishment should not be kept on Lake Balaton. It's not in there right now. Does this mean that there will be a floating accommodation facility in Lake Balaton, perhaps in these boat ports? We don't know the answer. We'd like an answer to that, too. In conclusion, as the rapporteur said, not only is it a matter of spatial planning tools, other but also one thing I have forgotten and is extremely important, the campsites. Now such a camping rehabilitation is taking place in Balatonszemes, but after that it will not be camping, it will be different. What we now see is that, although you have entered that using campsites for other purposes may take place as green areas with a maximum of 3 per cent built-in or as special land use units. That's right, but there's just another provision that if the state thinks it has a priority investment, it doesn't have to. That's how we read it out of the law. This is reflected in the fact that Parliament has just adopted it, and two weeks ago we discussed the creation of a new company, a company that will oversee these priority tourism investments. So this is what you've made your bed for? So we will consider everything to be a priority, and after a while, the campsites will disappear, and I see and find that these campsites will be very popular and even more popular among young people and families. So we're gonna let you have more apartment buildings and other investments in the hands of a certain circle of interests? This is outrageous. I think that I will finish now, and I will press another button in the next round, because there are three other topics I would like to comment on, but it is not specifically related to this, but to the amendment of additional laws. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-28-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-28-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that Mr Secretary of State has explained in the expozee, and my fellow Member Witzmann, who is a representative of the Southern Balaton region, has also been particularly concerned, and I think that he is doing his job very well, and therefore has also been monitoring the preparation of this bill and the preparation of a single map. I think that detailed regulations and opportunities for progress in the law have been mentioned. I would like to bring two aspects before this House. On the one hand, we welcome the fact that there has been a serious standardisation, a digitisation, which will result in a very large savings for county municipalities, the municipalities. Often they did not plan, often because they did not ask for such plans, often because they did not make the plans because it was too expensive to obtain them. This will now be available free of charge to them, and it is very important that at the same time, at the same time, all different levels will be managed at the same time, from county and regional levels to municipal levels, or this database and this digital map and plan are now managed, because it is very important that the changes are managed at the same time in time. More importantly, we see that the economic situation in Hungary and the increasingly improved economic environment allow us to stimulate investment and start new investments, start new investments to an extent that was not visible before. It is very important that those new investments, in real time, where they are, what status, where they are, how they are introduced, are added to this database, on this map. I particularly welcome this, as this way we can avoid cross-organization, planning and errors. I think this will benefit everyone who is involved in urban development, regional spatial planning. This is a final milestone or a stop for the bureaucracy reduction package in the field of construction that the government had already started in 2014-15. If someone, then I am a big believer in all kinds of bureaucracy reduction measures, be it in any field, because I think that one of the major barriers to our competitiveness is over-grabbed areas, so anywhere where we reduce bureaucracy, paper pushing, deadlines, licensing procedures are rationalized, Hungarian society, Hungary and Hungarian competitiveness can always be good there. But there has been a simple announcement, a reduction in permit times, a reduction in planning times. I think that when the law on the protection of the settlement picture was passed by the Parliament, it was able to create a special system for the builders, in which the construction conditions were simply, understandably, clearly there and written down. My fellow Member has already spoken about the three major areas, the most important content of amendments, which are included in the bill before us. The frame character of the national spatial planning plan will be strengthened and made more flexible. The agglomeration in Budapest is the second major element or pillar of the spatial planning plan, as well as the spatial planning plan of the Balaton Major Region, commonly known as the area use of the Balaton Act. This may be the most complex, diverse pillar of the three. This has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, since he experiences this every day and works on this. I think it is also worth talking about the minor amendments, because the amendment of the law on the protection of the settlement image is now being made in order to create national frameworks for the protection of areas with national aesthetic values, not to establish rules at local level, and within which, of course, local authorities can continue to define detailed municipal image requirements. Let there be a larger framework, a larger framework, which brings together important rules across the country. An amendment to the environmental law is also proposed. In the environmental sector, there has been no concrete definition of meteorological measuring stations, i.e. observatorys. At present, there is no rule that determines the conditions of construction in the vicinity of observatorys, and that the safety of measurements can be compromised, as we have seen and seen in Siófok. It is therefore very important that specific and exact rules be adopted here. This bill therefore introduces the concept of a measuring station and, after the adoption of the law, the government will be able to regulate it in a government decree, provide for their protective distance and detailed construction conditions. [[17 .30]] The amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act is also essential, as the public registers of the different sectors often contradict each other, the overlap may still be the least of the problems, but there are contradictions, which in many cases only emerge during the implementation phase of the investment, thus preventing these executions. It is therefore very important to ensure consistency between registers. I think that any bill that creates a simpler, clearer, more transparent situation should be welcomed and supported. I think that any bill that puts a perhaps slightly more confusing area within a reasonable framework so far and clears the picture, accessible to everyone, can clearly regulate the areas for which the law is intended and which it regulates, in any case, to be supported. Thus, the KDNP fraction supports this bill, and I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-28-146	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-28-147	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is an old debt to the government, because instead of a law on land development and spatial planning, which was created 20 years ago, an updated bill has been drawn up, both for Hungary and for priority areas, a single bill containing, together with map attachments, changes in development policy in recent years. That's really commendable. Among the priority areas, as Mrs Potocskané mentioned here, only the Balaton and the Budapest agglomeration are preparing a special plan, not for other areas, but we believe that this is also necessary. This is not only a legal obligation, but also, in our opinion, a professional justification for local specificities and issues to be resolved. I would like to give a very brief description of some concerns, not time. Before my fellow Members, during the previous term, János Lázár was the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, he submitted a bill on this subject, which the Parliament did not even accept, since on Monday Fidesz had to be removed from the agenda. To my knowledge, the proposal does not contain radical changes that are significant in terms of spatial planning, but only establishes two specific areas of territorial development, as I mentioned in my introduction: the agglomeration of the capital and the Balaton, which, while complying with previous regulatory practices, is not necessarily sufficient. I would like to mention that a number of existing rules that have been proposed as MSZP amendments to Lake Balaton are preserved, such as the fact that housing on campsites and beaches cannot be built. I recall looking at the proposal that the use of the area of campsites for other purposes can only take place as a green area, with a maximum of 3 per cent built-in or as a special beach settlement area development unit. In addition, it is stated that in the area of the waterfront camping, regardless of its ownership form, a commercial accommodation space, catering and recreation facilities, exercise facilities, residential and holiday buildings and apartments cannot be constructed. The area intended for new installation in the coastal areas of Lake Balaton shall not be designated. Which could be an outrage to make it possible to build a hotel, so I think it makes sense to buy Lőrinc Mészáros's enthusiastic camping here, in the Balaton region and other real estate purchases, which, of course, he doesn't know about. I dwell on this because the congresswoman mentioned it, as she is a local person involved in this, and as a compulsive camper, I worry about it, I just keep in mind, I think I ate most of my bread, but I have never been on vacation in a hotel in my life, I have never rested in my life. I'm a compulsive camper. What makes me raise my voice is in the interest of children and young people. If Lake Balaton is to be composed exclusively of residential parks, then it has lost the charm that we can practically say for thousands of years now, but at least our historic thousand years have characterized Lake Balaton, together with all its problems and problems, because we know that there was a time when it was completely dehydrated, there was a time when it was completely out of the water, and I could tell you that if only the billionaires' paradise was to come out of it, then it will lose the magic of Lake Balaton that we loved. There are also strong reservations that the regulations of the Government and the Ministerial Decree can provide for a wide range of exceptions and different regulations from certain legal requirements. The spatial development map of the proposal is either inaccurate or shows a shift from previous official government positions. It contains incomprehensible development elements such as the Nabucco gas pipeline, which I think has been dead for years, virtually no longer exists, no one talks about it, and I think this Nabucco gas pipeline has stopped. With the express trains drawn on the map, they probably thought of what was moving at speeds greater than 160 kilometers. Its value amounts to several thousand billion forints; their reality is incomprehensiblely low. Only the Budapest-Pozsony-Brno-Warsó Highway was officially announced by the parties involved, but I must note that the railway on the map avoids Bratislava in a relatively large way. Although the proposal mostly contains the right rules as general rules, the Government or the Minister may regulate, by regulation, in an incalculable case, and may lay down other rules differently. As I said, the regulation of the Balaton area does not provide reassuring answers either, especially in view of the hotels that can be built on campsites, against which the current legislation sets much stricter limits. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-28-148	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. Dear Parliament, The position of the LMP will be presented by two representatives within a 15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2018-11-28-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on its purpose and aim, we can think that this bill requires special attention from decision-makers and the country as a whole, and I think that is the case, only the particular attention could have been given to recognising that if the government had provided an excellent legislative instrument to develop the country, move towards sustainable development, to shape its territorial system, but unfortunately that is not the case. The situation is quite the opposite, because we are talking about the previous right directions, achievements, the right of people to a healthy environment and the constitutional right to protection of natural resources and values, and this is not an exceptional case for the Orbán government, it is now a common practice. Hungary is the country that has so far said that for many decades it has developed a high-level territorial planning system from national to regional, county and local level, integrating policies, local governments, civil society efforts, through many development phases for many years, and this has been the case. Hungary is the country which, I think, can be proud of all this, but unfortunately, with the second Orbán government coming on board, this has changed radically. It's the draft T/18783. In the previous term, you have already submitted, you have been through a complicated and lengthy parliamentary journey, and there has been a social consultation, and the final vote, Mr State Secretary, has also been mentioned, has been neglected. Let us be honest, we are not surprised at this, because it would have granted special rights, which would have been unpleasant for Fidesz-KDNP, too, in case it did not happen to win the elections. In fact, the previous one, T/18783. Draft No 1 also addressed the significant dilution of three merged laws. Their two-thirds power acquired by a clearly more than controversial electoral system not only in the serial number of the draft, but also in its essential elements, has brought about important changes that emptily destroy the content of the previous law, and have not been accompanied by any new professional or executable social consultation. [[17.40]] It is enough to mention the paragraph of the new draft, which I will quote:. The Act on the Shaping and Protection of the Built Environment 4. In cases within the meaning of paragraph 3a of Section 3a, specific spatial planning rules and special administrative rules may be laid down by the Government in a regulation, other than or excluding the application of national, regional and county spatial planning plans. All of this in the country where we practically experience here in Parliament, out on the street, that all laws, all decisions are made for investors, usually for Fidesz-near entrepreneurs. It is worth recalling Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, he has mentioned more than once that the interests of investors must be met. According to the LMP, people's interests must be met, the principles of sustainable development must be met, because if we destroy the environment that ensures sustainability from an ecological and economic point of view, we will consume our own future. But what is Étv about? a reference to the State's construction tasks? It is about the fact that the Government, building, will ensure that the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy will be implemented. The Government may lay down rules for the installation, the specific construction requirements and the spatial planning rules for land belonging to sites of national importance, as well as to land belonging to their immediate surroundings, which are subject to construction activities which are of major importance for the national economy, as well as to the public interest to be carried out there, as well as the land of national security buildings. Point 3b states that specific rules of procedure relating to investments as defined in paragraph 3a may be laid down by the Government in a regulation. Neither the number nor the number of investments that are of national importance, the government may or may not consider any investment to be what it was, for example, for the acquisition and investment of some Turkish private entrepreneurs in Budapest, the government has taken a decision twice, but it is enough to think about the recently famous small railway in Csarna Valley, the storage of dangerous goods and not to mention anything else. On this basis, all the land and investment in the whole country, which the Fidesz government and its kissers want, can be made a priority investment from an economic point of view and thus out of the scope of the already weakened law, this time violating any legitimate needs of the local population, local authorities, professional organisations, previous territorial plans or development ideas of the municipalities. The government has already put their hands on Budapest in the 2018 XLIX on the development of Budapest and agglomeration. in law, and the current draft OTRT goes on to do all this, eliminating areas that are important for the environment, raising fundamental problems of definition that reflect the difficulties of obscuration and interpretation of the law. Under the conditions and requirements laid down in previous laws, it refers to decisions of government or ministerial authority, throwing this area to the will of the government. I think that this is unacceptable to the LMP, and thank you very much for listening.
u2018-11-28-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, you have almost eight minutes.
u2018-11-28-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the eight years of Fidesz, the National Regional Development Council ceased. The regions are demoted, the counties are barely there, the municipal level is bled out, the civilians are impossible. Developments take place without coordination, according to the needs, whims and greed of the Fidesz culture. And the law is being demoted so as not to cause problems in the unscrupulous enforcement of private interests against the common good. Of course, there would have been a reason for the review, because the world around us, the circumstances have changed significantly and changed. Climate resistance and the need for proactive adaptation, natural resources such as land, water and biodiversity scarcity are real challenges. And there's the constant pressure to be the servers of some multinational companies. The expansion of Paks and the associated high-voltage electricity grid development, as well as the priority so-called national investment, are just foam on the cake. However, territorial and urban development and planning could play a key role in the balanced development of the country, in order to eliminate the hopelessness of the complexly disadvantaged areas, the 21st century. To create a profitable economic structure worthy of the century and to make our cities and rural settlements viable, but at least to survive. But what do we have to face now? A simplified, toothless amendment to three previous, otherwise interrelated laws was born, a salad law, a bad version of it, because only one can vote on it, regardless of whether certain elements could in principle be part of good and bad amendments. However, the fact is that to the Parliament voted by the people and intended to represent them, the Members who wish to act on the good cause did not have much left to decide. Unfortunately, the time frame of the speaker's speech is dwarf compared to only symbolically listing how many and what cases there have been concerns about withdrawal and amendment. Thus, only the example remains to support the unacceptable disregard of this draft law and of our rights under the Fundamental Law. The Orbán government certainly does not simply refer a number of cases, including those previously regulated by law, to the government, but to the Minister of Spatial Planning. It is not for nothing, because it is the minister who is leading the Prime Minister's Office that is responsible for many of his other tasks. Who else? For example, in environmental, heritage and many other cases, the expert guard has already been fired in several waves in the ministries as well as in the authorities, so the professional arguments no longer play a role if, for example, forests, large water basins, areas of regular inland water, water quality protection areas or further development of the Vásárhely plan, reservoirs, landscape protection areas or areas of interest for example due to geological issues, proposed areas for forest planting and well-placed sledges should be designated and protected. The caves also draw the shorter one, as it is even removed from the law, and I quote: the conditions for installation in the surface protection zone of caves should be determined on the basis of the opinion of the national park directorate concerned with its area of operation. And it is no coincidence that earlier zones will be merged and disappear, for example, the area of forests with excellent location, even though they have an outstanding role to play in terms of climate change. Of course, the change can't avoid camping, we've heard about it several times today. There, too, they are dealt with only by a ministerial decree, since Lőrinc Mészáros, at least around Lake Balaton, has already been made up of all of them. The municipalities will not be able to do anything to enforce local interests, or even almost help them to endure violence, as I quote again:. The municipality will not be obliged to compensate for the imposition of the settlement arrangement instrument it has adopted if the requirement is a direct consequence of the application at municipal level of the legislation on spatial planning or the government decree on national settlement and construction requirements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.50]] And it is not only the Hatvan-Albertirsa 400-kilot power lines that can be worried about when, unexpectedly, high-voltage power lines are built next to and above resorts and bio-producing farms, because according to the new regulations, I am once again quoting the path of national technical infrastructure networks set out in the country's structural plan and the spatial order, if the Minister with responsibility and competence to designate the technical infrastructure in question agrees, it is possible to depart. The Balaton is just a typical gem in the legalization of an unlimited, I'm telling you, authoritarianism. Almost all statutory licensing or bans for the protection of Lake Balaton have been removed from the draft. Some of them are being transferred to a government decree. Worse still, there are rules that are not yet in the current legal order that are not even subject to the government decree, which is simply going to disappear. I can illustrate the problem with two examples. The current Balaton Law sets out detailed provisions on the socially sensitive issue of port building in Balaton. Ports may only be established on a coastal section designated by the municipality for port construction, if it is accessible without prejudice to the green surface; a pool port can only be built for boats; and many other legal requirements for environmental protection purposes are in place at present. The draft submitted contains only one sentence instead of 60. § (3) - : The terms and conditions for the establishment of a new, self-usual and public boat and boat port are laid down in the Government's decree. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another example is that the rules on compensation for the public expropriation of coastal areas are excluded from the green area title. We believe that it would be simpler and more true if the government admitted that such laws were only used to ensure that their own will would be done without limit. Because of all of this, what we have listed so far, LMP cannot support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-28-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2018-11-28-153	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The proposed bill is 120 pages and 25 pages of annexes, and there are still other studies and previous materials attached to it, about 400 pages are being studied so suddenly and quickly. What we know about him is enough, by the way. One of the things I would like to mention in the introduction of the Secretary of State was a positive justification for the regulation of the three laws which have ceased to exist in one law. I would just like to mention, for the sake of the minutes, that the 2003 Act on the National Spatial Planning Plan for the agglomeration in Budapest, 2005 and the Act on the Spatial Planning Plan for the Special Region of Lake Balaton, which was adopted by the Orbán government in 2000, I was also sitting here. At that time a special committee discussed this with the Members of Parliament from the Balaton neighbourhood, there were seventy, I don't know how many mayors, we discussed in multiple waves, and the Fidesz Members of Parliament went home as a success, under the direction of István Bóka, that this law was passed, and now I see that all this is annihilated by the regulation of these three laws in one law. I think that it cannot be believed, especially that these three laws can be brought together in a fourth law of a framework, and this is of equal value. In any case, we would like to respond to what has been said as an addition. There was another comment by the Secretary of State, and thank you, by the way, for bringing this up, and the fact that we are past the next stage of a series. I would also like to say a few words about this series as former mayor of practice. One of them is the construction authorisation procedure based on the simplified notification for 2015, when it was possible to build up up to 300 sq m essentially without a construction permit. As mayor of practice, I have experienced how much this relief was otherwise difficult. This was not an easing at all, it was a major difficulty, and I must say, it has led to corruption in order to create all this construction, not to mention that housing permits have revealed, despite the conciliation obligations, things that have caused Rákospalota or Pestújhely to suffer today. The other tasks arising from the law on the protection of settlements in 2016, which appeared in the municipalities. It's the settlement image book we've done. Everyone here has benefited from these laws, who have agreed to do so and have us implement them in an industrial way. We had to get a planner, we couldn't get the state support, we had to do it on our own. Who saw such a municipal image protection law [[Shows by hand:]] It's this thick, in a district the size of which I used to work. No one's turned up the municipal image protection book since then, but we've done it. It was full of photos, descriptions, unconscious work, I don't know how many things, and it was an unplanned ad hoc thing about 40 million that was immediately accepted, while in the introduction it came to simplifying. This was worse than the creation of the local regulations for the protection of settlement image, we got a few days because this was when the round signs were banged in Budapest, and we had to create a decree quickly and, in principle, assess and fine, price how much we have to pay for these signs. So we were used as a political tool as a local government, and I think that we put it in this settlement plan and that the municipalities had to implement it. I'm not saying it cost money. There was no compensation for that, and we'll never have a penny of it, but it's done. I have to say that perhaps the only thing that we will benefit from here is the competitiveness of the digital map, which has emerged today in the logical introduction of the Secretary of State in terms of the introduction to simplification. I think that this is indeed the future, this is what is needed very much, and for this, of course, we also need the Land Administration to speak to the municipalities in one language, probably with the sectoral register. So there are registration problems here, and the digital introduction is based on accurate data reporting. But there is also a business sector on this, and everyone who does this digital has a sure order, because the municipality cannot do it on its own, so it is practically a market. I will also get to where I would like to go, but I would like to mention this: the land office and the local government, which is a very large area, because the real partners are municipalities, farmers, their financial consistency and their sectoral consistency still significantly hamper this work. Obviously, in a small village, in a few hundred inhabitants, the problem of the digital transaction is how the municipality will pay for it, because it is not a small cost. [[18.00]] I'd like to tell you about a professional part. In fact, the National Development Plan has a professional programme, which is accepted by 2030. Now, this so-called framework law, which we are discussing here today, does not mention very much the relationship between the national development's 2030 professional programme and this spatial planning, although they should meet somewhere. I would just like to mention that I have included the agglomeration in the national rural development strategy, as well as rural development, the agglomeration of Budapest and its region, but also the Balaton, I believe, is included in this national rural development strategy, and this is also subject to a deadline. The same energy strategy, the Semmelweis plan, the Wekerle plan, I no longer say what plans there are, there is no mention of what will be, what will be, what will be, what will be annihilated, or new ones will come in their place; then, Mr Secretary of State, I suppose, who will say so. But the same problem is the relationship between the national environmental programme and this framework law, or the sustainable development strategy in relation to the same one, and I would also perhaps mention the national transport strategy, because it is quite significantly linked, I think, with the proposal before us. Finally, I would like to mention that it has been said here in the contribution of one of our fellow Members that the Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. It would be nice to have everyone on the shore of Lake Balaton, but I also have the fear that others here mentioned before me that the shore of Lake Balaton is very narrow, narrowing down, and very few people will enjoy the future of this Lake Balaton. I think the five meters that showed up are an omen. The other thing that is very important is that these campsites, beaches and many related transactions, there should be some clarity in this. For many decades we've been on holiday near Lake Balaton, and we haven't been on vacation abroad for years while our children were little, and now I'm just taking the example, Alsóörs, where we've been on vacation, there's nothing there. A huge board proclaims that a boat park in Balaton, surrounded by a guard from European Union sources, was built in the place of a resort that once owned my company's resort and a site on the shore of Lake Balaton, but the next company in Budapest also has the same boatport on its property. I told the guard there that I spent 18 or 19 years on vacation, let me walk through all these luxury ships, and he said I couldn't, because I needed a card to do that, so I could go through with it. I brought my children and the grandkids to show them, but we just watched the Balaton from a distance, I can't get to the water anymore, and I'm afraid that's how the Balaton will look, that we won't get to it. Finally, I would like to mention that the law that will come tomorrow, which is the Mining Act, and here our fellow Member mentioned here, deals with the opening of the mine, mining law, mine, and the same ministry is the author, and I note that it is in close connection with the deficit that this does not present, but it already deals with the opening of the mine in a professional law, as well as with the mining industry, how to build a mine, is also in that law, and we have already discussed it here in fact, and which means that almost one company is in the hands of tourism on Lake Balaton. Overall, I think that I cannot support the adoption of the large framework law put before us, either as a layman or as a practitioner at all. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-154	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz, Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-28-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to share a few thoughts in relation to the parts of the bill before us concerning Lake Balaton, including the water protection infrastructure of Lake Balaton. I hope that Mr Secretary of State will respond during the debate to the important things I have said. I am very pleased that the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mihály Witzmann, who is in the Chamber right now, has adopted himself as a Balaton man... [[Mihály Witzmann: I didn't postulate, I've been a Balaton man for 42 years. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll put it this way as a Balaton man. I'm sorry. I didn't want to put any sarcasm in it here, I was just quoting you. So I think as a Balaton man, you will understand, you will understand, and I hope you will agree with what I have said. I am very pleased that my fellow Member has said that the shore of Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. This was, by the way, an important and strong element of the Balaton package of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, so that we not only say it, but also treat it as such. I am also pleased that this law shows how important Balaton and its coast are for the future of Hungary. It was also nice for me that this bill was preceded by extensive social consultation. My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, said that he did so with the involvement of nearly 500 partners, including representatives of the municipalities concerned. I trust that the consultation was attended by Balatonmáriafürdő and the mayors of Balatonfenyves, and that they could express their views on the coastal works. If this didn't happen or this information didn't get to them, then I'll do it now. The lake of Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, but the question is whether there will be a shore of Lake Balaton. In 1977, the water level of Lake Balaton was designed to be between 70 and 100 centimeters, then 20 centimeters later this water level was modified to 110 centimeters. I mean, since then, especially in view of the prevailing wind, I am a Balatonkeresztúr resident, the northern wind is typical of the stormy period when the shore of Lake Balaton floats away, and this is due to the fact that, in parallel with the increase in the water level of Lake Balaton, the infrastructure of these coasters was not or only partially realised. On the one hand, it is understandable, because as the second largest tourist value of the country after Budapest, it is understandable that tourists are attracted to clean water, the high water level, and in this respect this step is understandable, but the agriculture suffers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Balatonfenyves and its surroundings, the so-called Nagyberek, are situated deeper than the water level of Lake Balaton, so here after the rains the melioration, which is also in the last century, does not allow the waters to come down from these agricultural areas. Besides, all this water is pumped to the Lake Balaton, in many places there is a lot of inland water, and there is no farming. So there's a downside to that. And when I talk about this, do you know what the water level at Balatonmariafürdő is today, the water level of Lake Balaton? 122 centimeters, and according to the news, the water level of Lake Balaton is expected to be further increased. Well, I think that in view of what has been said, I do not need to explain further how important it is to modernise the infrastructure of coastguards. I very much hope that both the government and my fellow Members, who are sitting here with us, are fully aware of this, and I very much hope that not only in Balatonfenyves and Balatonmáriafürdő, but also in the other settlements on the southern coast, will take care in the future that the shore of Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, as far as possible, to be accessible and to remain at all. Thank you very much for the floor, and I hope that I will have an answer in the debate later on. [[18.10]]
u2018-11-28-156	Thank you, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi.
u2018-11-28-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Then I would like to continue with what I said in my previous speech as the lead speaker, by hoping that the governing parties divided what they were going to talk about, and that my fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa did not say anything about camping and ports. I believe that at that time it was admitted what the ulterior motive was, and it is clear that the government will certainly be involved in these investments. It's only because it's 99. In the case of investments that are of major importance for the national economy, the Government shall lay down the rules for the installation, and so we have said everything. I would like to confirm and say that we are, of course, very pleased that the real estate register and the related access to maps will be free of charge for municipalities, that is not a question, it is a very good proposal. Yes, there is a passage in this law, which is absolutely eligible, and we really welcome it. Earlier, a fellow Member said the problem of air cables and underground cables, and I trust that I will have an answer to my question. The legislation now says that these cables must be taken underground, which is very good, as it is very welcome from a municipal point of view and anyway; however, if there is a column, you can also carry the communication cables on the column. My question is, where these cables go, there's columns almost everywhere, so what's the case where there's no column, but there's a wire. And I don't mean outside, I mean inland. The way I see it, you have to take it to the earth's cable, and you shouldn't allow this kind of space in the law, so that you can even put these cables on the pole. Few words have fallen to 110. § 3, amendment of the Law on the Protection of the City Picture, where a new national municipal protection procedure is launched. Now we have to think about it again: what could it be about, what could the author have been thinking? I have to say this several times now, because it means that from a municipal perspective, as my fellow Members have said, the settlements have prepared the TAK, no one ever turns the page; obviously the head architect is turning the page, since he can issue the permit, but it is not so familiar to citizens. And now we have a new passage, the introduction of the concept of national municipal image protection and the area that is of particular importance for the city's image. We've been thinking a lot about what this could be. Of course, if this is due to historic or culturally important structures that will be covered by this national municipal image protection, then it would also be okay. If a person's property has this protection on it, he must have a unique TAK and meet specific townscape requirements for that property, and these procedures will have to be initiated at government offices, otherwise, on the basis of the government's decision. Now the question may arise: then the decision on what is placed in national municipal image protection will be the decision of the government. So you could end up on a property that you don't like. Because it doesn't say in which cases, so cultural, historical and other important structures, real estate, anyone's property can be found on the government's discretion. Well, that's, uh, I don't think it's completely thought-out. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to answer that question, what kind of real estate you thought to extend it to, because it is very difficult to determine which real estate you might have. Finally, I would also like to thank Mr Witzmann for his intervention in bringing the southern bypass to Siófok into the law. The settlement has been waiting for this for a very long time, so it really is a positive thing that will be useful to everyone, both for the people living there and for the holidaymakers there. We trust that there will be money attached to it, and it will not just be on paper here in the annex to the law. I believe that you are working on this, so, of course, you can count on my help in any way you wish. Thank you very much. And the other is that I hope there will be a debate, unlike last night with my colleague, Mr Lajos Kósa, and we will be able to get the answer to our questions from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-158	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, No one has made any further comments, so I will close the general debate and ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State Azbei Tristan indicates that yes, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2018-11-28-159	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Members, Firstly, I would like to thank and welcome the constructive debate that has taken place here, at least in most of the debate. The preparation of the bill was preceded by extensive professional consultation, and the author, the government side, was open to professional arguments, arguments from opposition representatives and actors, as demonstrated by a number of opposition representatives. There are points of dispute, which, in many cases, concern environmental policy and sustainability areas, and my general comment is, if you will allow me, that most questions are otherwise answered by the draft norm and its annexes. It has been said that this is a substantial draft norm, but the basis for this debate is to be studied in detail. In any case, there was a question on which I feel that the national position requires clarification. In the case of Lake Balaton, the problem of reeds and boat ports has been raised several times, and I would like to state that the aim of the bill is to settle the relationship between reeds and boat ports in the case of Lake Balaton, in such a way as to provide an opportunity for the sustainable, repeat, sustainable development and construction of boat ports. The current Balaton Act must also ensure that the licensed port is at all sustainable if the reed is settled on the water surface used by the ports. These are the entrances, for example. The real state, as we all experience, is that dozens of them have been built without permission in boat ports in reeds; this is a problem that has developed over the last decades and must be regulated and managed in some way. The aim of the regulation we are proposing is to enable municipalities to legalise these boat ports, which have been constructed without authorisation, but which are otherwise properly maintained, with appropriate environmental guarantees. In addition, the aim is to create a boatport in a sustainable manner which, by its natural characteristics, does not have the possibility to do so. For example, because the whole beach has grown into reeds. Overall, natural protection will not be reduced, damaged or even increased in the case of forests by means of the new legislation. In this context, there can be a debate, which is basically ideal, ideological, environmental policy-based. This is where the new wave liberal movementist environmental attitude meets, and approaches to the conservative, Christian Democratic environmental approach, which is constantly looking for a healthy compromise between development aspects and environmental and sustainability aspects. [[18.20]] I cannot go beyond the fact that at certain points in the debate, he also arrived in the area of malign slander. So far, if anyone is still experiencing illegality, then press charges, but I would ask and suggest that the otherwise constructive debate should not be broken, the opposition fellow Members should break it by speaking from the bottom of the genre of tabloid politics and by suppositions of bad faith. However, we will continue to undertake so far the constructivity and openness of professional consultation from the point of view of the author. We ask you to make your amendments, and in the light of what has been done so far, you will experience openness on our part. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-160	Thank you, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the Hungary Helps Programme will follow until the closure. Government referral T/3625. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-28-161	Thank you again for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear House, I will present both the ideas of the Hungary Helps programme and the draft legislation before us in my national expo. The aim of the bill before you is to create the framework with which Hungarian humanitarian policy can continue to meet three conditions even more in the future: to prevent migration through local solidarity, assistance, support for persecuted Christian and other communities, to serve the interests and security of Hungarian people through humanitarian aid, as well as through a programme of direct support of outstanding effectiveness in international comparison. Our program was given the title "Hungary Helps" by the government and the author, and it is really Hungary helpers, i.e. Hungary. Hungary helps us, because Hungary is growing stronger, and for the first time after a long historical period, we are in a position to turn to the people and peoples of the world who are in need with humanitarian solidarity in mind of our own interests. While eight years ago the nightmare of the collapse of the Hungarian economy was hanging over the heads of Hungarian citizens, we have now become the most stable developing country in the region. The Hungarian voters decided in 2010, and this decision was confirmed on two other occasions, they said yes to Hungary's rise, and they said yes to a policy that puts Hungarian interests first in its international engagement. At the same time, the expansion of our international humanitarian engagement was not only a condition of this economic legage, but also of our own self-determination and of our own identity; that we dared to say that we are defending our country, we will not support, but also prevent, that we dared to say that Hungary is a country of Christian culture, and that is why we have a moral duty in the world to help those persecuted because of their Christian faith. The Hungarian voters decided in 2010, and they repeated this decision by authorising the Hungarian government to do so. Hungary has therefore reached a turning point, the foundations of which have been laid by the new Fundamental Law of our country, and from which a parliamentary decision on the foundation of the Hungarian Helps programme followed, which has rarely brought parliamentary parties together in a visible unity. On both sides of the parliamentary horseshoe, the genocide of the Islamic State and other terrorist organisations against religious minorities, such as Christians, was unanimously condemned. The right and left of the Hungarian Parliament, all political parties at that time, perhaps some of the honourable Members in the Chamber who are now in the Chamber, called for the government to speak with one voice, gave a mandate to the government, and called on the international community to resolve the crisis on the ground, to help the wounded and persecuted on the ground. Unfortunately, some political actors differed from this position before and after, but on 19 December 2016 they said together that importing the problem, supporting illegal migration, further destabilising the countries affected by the crisis was not the solution. It is a irresponsible, selfish and narrow-minded policy that seeks to benefit from the suffering of a people by emigrating young people, by eliminating hundreds of thousands of years of religious communities and by irresponsible inviting a foreign culture to Europe. From the beginning, Hungary has strongly advocated its position that, as we call it, smart help is needed; it is a help that serves long-term consolidation on the basis of the needs of the suffering communities. It should not be a goal to redefine both Europe and the religious and cultural map of the Middle East, either by supporting migration or by overlooking genocides. As part of the mission of the Hungarian Helps programme or initiative, I must state the position that we cannot silence the genocide that is affecting apostolic Christians and other religious and ethnic minorities in the world today. When we hear the word "Christian persecution," we usually remember the stories of martyrs cast before lions by ancient pagan Roman emperors. Although it is a fact that this has happened and it is important to remember it, Christianity is still the most persecuted religion in the world. In other words, more than 50 percent of people who are discriminated against by their religion are Christians today. CHAPTER XX CHAPTER 1 2 - TOTAL The persecution of Christians, which continued to continue in the century, still silenced, is on a greater scale than during the time of Emperor Nero. Hungary was the first country to speak at government level against the persecution of Christians in 2016, which first established a Deputy State Secretary and then a State Secretary to help those persecuted locally, and to strengthen their cry for help in various diplomatic forums and international public opinion towards the accomplice of the Western world. The problem that this draft legislation is also a solution to is clear: the western world, which wipes out its own Christian roots, deceiving selfishly in the robe of human rights, exploits suffering countries with the support of migration, while perhaps ignoring the fact that it allows the foundations of its own existence, the Christian culture, to be further weakened. Dear House, Hungary has decided that we will not be an immigrant country. At the same time, neighborly solidarity requires that those to whom it was given be generous to those to whom it was not given. This task, rather a mission, is called the Hungary Helps programme, which aims to help in migration resource areas, thus eliminating the root causes of migration and helping persecuted Christian communities. In both cases, our principle is clear: we take help where there is trouble and help as needed. Our aim is to provide support directly to communities in need as much as possible against international practice. The draft law on the Hungarian Helps programme creates the framework for this. We don't give cans where there's no roof on the house, we don't give blankets where schools have been destroyed, and we don't support large international humanitarian support organisations, we support opaque agencies, but the persecuted and needy. [[18.30]] In the course of the implementation of the Hungary Helps programme so far, in addition to stopping the invasion of migrants illegally invading Europe through our migration policy measures, we have allowed thousands of families to return home during humanitarian support. In the past two years alone, his program of support for persecuted Christians has brought more than 35,000 people, which has helped to bring back or stay in some 8700 families. This is many times the coercive resettlement quota Brussels is trying to force on us, and the support needed to help individual people stay in their homeland is a fraction of the expenditure needed to integrate migrants in Europe, for example, a fraction of the HUF 9 million per person that was planned for this purpose by a study known as the Soros Plan per soul. We supported the construction of a school in cooperation with the Hungarian Catholic Episcopal Conference in Kurdistan, Iraq, for children who had to flee from their homeland occupied by the Islamic State, Christian and non-Christian children. During the war, we restored homes in the Nile plateau in Northern Iraq, funded educational and humanitarian projects for refugees and internally refugees in Syria and Lebanon, as well as for people who survived genocide in Nigeria, and launched a scholarship programme for persecuted and discriminated Christian young people at Hungarian universities. Its results show that the Hungary Helps program works, and it is time to make its experience and methods available to international partners. However, this requires the application of unfortunately few well-functioning elements of international practice. That's what this bill is about. The bill presented to you aims to put the principles and engagement presented above into a more effective framework than ever before, so that other countries, under the leadership of Hungary, can join the programme of smart help. The bill contains changes and innovations in three main areas regarding the humanitarian activities of the Hungarian government. First, it sets out the responsibilities between the ministries concerned, resulting in a proportionate distribution of work and tasks. It will set up a new agency, a grant management agency for successful, visible and transparent implementation of Hungarian humanitarian programmes; it will also put in place an economical and international donation method involving less administration. According to the 2017 Government Decree establishing the Hungary Helps programme as a framework programme, the main purpose of the programme was to communicate Hungary's humanitarian and international development activities with a uniform image. The past period, the results and the crises that have not stopped have confirmed that we need to extend and strengthen the Hungarian humanitarian model in the form of a policy programme. As much as Hungary is trying to deny this in some media in the West, it is a member of the international community of solidarity and, as a member of the international community, it intends to continue to participate actively in international development cooperation and efforts to support international humanitarian aid, in line with the size and economic resilience of its population, while at the same time in the interest of its own citizens. In order to achieve this, we consider it most appropriate to establish an agency that can help with the principles of the Hungarian Helps programme in coordination with the partner organisations of the cooperating states. In order to implement the programme, a dedicated agency would therefore be set up, in addition to the State Secretariat set up for this purpose, under this bill, to effectively manage, target and control assistance to communities in need. A separate agency as a public-use non-profit company is needed to complement a useful and well-functioning element of international practice and to participate effectively in the financing and implementation of bilateral and multilateral support projects, whether in V4 or in the EU or in other frameworks. The activities of the agency thus established cover the following three areas. The Agency coordinates the humanitarian assistance of the Hungarian government, with a special emphasis on immediate assistance in the event of disasters, thus mitigating the emergence of migration flows. The Agency will fully implement the Hungarian government's activities to help persecuted Christian communities and other religious minorities, and will also participate in the implementation of the international development policy objectives coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Hungarian Government, alongside the humanitarian area. In addition, this bill places the coordination of the humanitarian aid activities of the Hungarian Government to the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office in charge of helping persecuted Christians and implementing the Hungarian Helps programme. In addition to cutting red tape, this step has a clear political message: Hungary considers its creed for local aid, humanitarian support and especially for the support of persecuted Christians not merely as an external instrument, but as one of our national policies. This is one of the main objectives of the Hungarian Government. In order to achieve the objectives of the programme, it is essential that the administrative management body, the Hungary Helps Agency, carry out transparently and economically the implementation of international humanitarian aid projects initiated by the Prime Minister's Office to assist persecuted Christians and other target groups of support. The new form of donation described by the bill significantly reduces the burden on public administration and beneficiaries of concluding grant contracts, issuing aid documents and paying donations and grants, monitoring the implementation of projects. This is justified in several cases, since in many cases we need to provide humanitarian aid to war countries, to countries where there may not be a banking system. At the same time, while allowing rapid assistance, it also guarantees transparency. Due to the growing international recognition of the Hungarian Helps programme and those wishing to join it, it is important for the agency to receive external donations to support the programme and to decide on the project-based allocation of grants and aid as a legal person with a public mission alone. With the creation of these three pillars, once again: the establishment of clear powers, the establishment of a grant management agency and the creation of an appropriate form of support, we successfully combine the successful Hungarian humanitarian model with the well-functioning instruments of international practice. Dear House, Honourable Members, It is our fundamental, Christian, and human duty to help those in need in the name of solidarity. On the basis of the bill before you, the Hungarian Helps programme can also set an example for the prevention of migration, and at the same time strengthen the Christian identity of Europe and Hungary, based on its effective and proportionate support to the population and economic resilience of Hungary. The preservation of our Christian culture based on respect for human dignity, freedom and solidarity in Hungary and abroad is not an introverting, defensive process, but a proactive mission that encourages active action. In this spirit, therefore, we look forward to your insights. However, I would like to ask you with respect that the unity about which you have already witnessed in 2016 in order to protect the persecuted, deprived people should not be forgotten. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.40]]
u2018-11-28-162	Thank you, Secretary of State, Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sigismund Barna, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-28-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, If Europe's name changes, Europe will essentially no longer be Europe. If our continent's Christian-Christian philosophical foundations change, it will eventually get a new name. This would also mean losing all the results built on this philosophical foundation. It is very difficult to maintain Europe's Christian-Christian philosophical foundations today, but we have undertaken this in Hungary or Poland and in some other European, islandlike political, cultural and religious communities. The implementation of this Christian Democratic philosophy is not limited to the borders of Hungary and Europe. Just as a country has a foreign policy to protect its own geopolitical interests, we also have a Christian neighbourhood and global policy to protect our faith, philosophical and lifestyle interests and values. The operational part of this is the Hungary Helps program, which was created primarily to help persecuted Christians around the world, but the Hungarian government has also implemented general humanitarian programmes. Hungary takes up its Christian roots in the world, just like when it took its place in Europe more than a thousand years ago. Hungary Helps is more and more than a creed in the world in Europe. Hungary Helps is the outstretched hand of Europe towards those from whom we received our spiritual foundation, because they became Christians a thousand years earlier than we Hungarians and those who became Christians after us in the world, because of the exudation of Europe, and who today turn to us as we Hungarian Christians 50 years ago from behind the Iron Curtain towards Western Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, We're not the first in the world to think about it. Following another country in Europe, France, is an experience or a challenge to Hungary in the Middle East. So thank God, we are not alone in this modest initiative in Europe, and this involves the possibility of cooperation and the achievement of greater goals. What Hungary is a pioneer in, however, is the attitude to the task, because we say that helping Christians is our primary goal. Today, we need political courage in Europe, and we have that. In addition, there is another condition. The continuous growth of the Hungarian economy means not only that our country is constantly evolving, but also that we are able to make a greater contribution to the resolution of crisis areas, stabilisation of developing countries, international development policy. By supporting countries in need of financial instruments, programmes or scholarships, we are not only helping them, but also contributing to the security of Hungary and Europe, as local help can significantly reduce the migratory pressure on the continent. The most important programme in this field is the Hungary Helps programme launched in 2017 on the basis of a legal mandate on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid. In recent years, the Middle East and Africa have launched or supported a number of projects that help locals to stay in and thrive at home. However, global processes have led to changes in the programme's responsibilities and the need to provide humanitarian assistance to meet the basic human needs of natural and man-made disasters. In addition to international development policy support, special attention will be paid to humanitarian aid. In the future, the programme will also cover projects that support persecuted Christians in developing countries on the basis of human rights. The government wants to participate actively in the international fight for freedom of religion and freedom of conscience. In order to achieve these goals quickly and effectively in the future, the Hungarian Government's coordination on humanitarian aid, as has been said, will be transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the State Secretary responsible for helping persecuted Christians and implementing the Hungary Helps programme. In order to achieve the objectives of the programme, it is necessary to establish a 100% state-owned administrative body, the Hungary Helps Agency Nonprofit Private Limited Company, which provides the public service with donations related to the operation of Hungary Helps and public tasks related to the provision of grants. The Agency shall provide for the conclusion of international contracts, the payment of donations and grants, and the monitoring of the operation initiated by the Prime Minister's Office to assist persecuted Christians and other target groups of support. Donations to support the programme will be received and decided upon by the Agency and will organise and operate voluntary, charitable social programmes initiated by the Prime Minister's Office. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary firmly believes that in order to curb migration, it is necessary to help residents locally, to create the living conditions under which people can live in peace and security and in decent conditions. For years, Hungary has spent considerable resources to achieve this goal. We also participate in EU development, humanitarian, police, military, civilian crisis management and human education programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to being an active player in the international humanitarian aid system. Thanks to the bill, we will be able to meet this commitment even more effectively and to a greater extent in the future, and help will be able to get to the persecuted and victims of humanitarian disasters more quickly. With all due respect, support the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-164	Thank you, Congressman Sigmond Brown. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-28-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary as a national People's Party and as a truly civil and Christian party will support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-28-166	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-11-28-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Fundamental Law states that we are proud that our King Saint Stephen made our country part of Christian Europe a thousand years ago. Hungary was the first to declare religious freedom among the Christian nations in Europe at the Torda Parliament in 1568, idestova 450 years ago. This historical example predescends us to lead by example. In 2016, the Parliament adopted a unanimous resolution condemning the persecution of Christians and genocide in the Middle East and Africa and supporting the persecuted. This is also the reason why in the European Union, a special secretary of state deals with the aid of persecuted Christians and Hungary Helps Hungary helps to implement the program. It is an eloquent proof that the Hungarian government is of the view that we do not want to be an immigrant country, but that we want to continue to be a Christian country following our thousand-year tradition. We believe that help must be put in place, assessing the needs of local communities and helping them, not allowing trouble into Europe. This credible Christian Democrat government response to the migration crisis, which offers a real alternative to the migration support forces. Hungary is strengthening thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, which shows, among other things, the growth of our economic performance. Hungary has been able to contribute more than ever to humanitarian aid and international development policy for the stability of crisis areas, migration countries and developing countries. Hungary intends to continue to participate actively in international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance, as a member of the international community, in line with the size and economic strength of its population. The international humanitarian policy implemented by Hungary must be in line with the general priorities and principles of the Hungarian government, and therefore the international activity of the Hungarian government must serve to protect Christian culture, the value base of Hungarianism, and to help vulnerable communities of the Christian culture. [[18.50]] Hungary must contribute to reducing the migration crisis and migratory pressure on Europe and to preventing it from being helped locally in order to protect the security of Hungarian people. In the field of humanitarian aid, Hungary's most important humanitarian aid programme, the Hungary Helps programme, comprises all the principles of good service in the field of humanitarian aid, in order to express the solidarity of the Hungarian people. This law is intended to ensure the practical implementation of the broadened principles of the Hungarian Helps programme, as follows: identifying and identifying the causes and natures of humanitarian crises; the model of direct and local assistance and the principle of supporting the localisation of communities threatened by the humanitarian crisis; the law ensures that assistance is quickly and effectively delivered to the persecuted and victims of humanitarian disasters; and Hungary's contribution to the elimination of migration-related processes in the international arena by providing immediate assistance on the spot. According to the Hungarian government, the real help for people who are forced to leave their country would be to provide the prerequisites for staying in their homeland. The Hungarian government focuses on the international practice of helping to stop migration flows from unstable, economically undeveloped or dysfunctional states by helping them at the point of departure. Both Minister of State and my fellow Member have presented the operation of the Hungary Helps Agency and the essence of the grant management agency, so I do not wish to go into this in detail, but I would like to say, in closing, what is the true mission of the Hungary Helps programme is that our thousand-year Christian culture is a common heritage that we need to protect and cultivate. The Hungarian government intends not only to preserve the Christian heritage of Hungary, but also of Europe, but also its humanitarian aid programme. The Hungarian state wants to be an example in preserving Christian values, which is the truly credible Christian Democratic way of thinking and responding to Europe's migration crisis. Let me finally quote Mother Teresa: perhaps what we do is just a drop in the sea, but without this drop, the sea would be shallower. Please support this mission, please support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-11-28-168	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-28-169	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, at the time, we supported the 2016 proposal ourselves, and also the draft law on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid tabled by the Government on November 2014, I think, 16, 18. In addition to 6 votes against, all the political groups supported the proposal, if I remember correctly, as the legislation has long been called for by national and international actors involved in the implementation of policies. The Act entered into force on 1 July 2015. I stress this because the MSZP supported this, i.e. that the adoption of the law, as it facilitates the development of our external relations, the access of domestic economic operators to the external market, the expansion of the relationship system of education or health care, as well as the development of Hungarian knowledge and technology transfer. International development cooperation policy was justified and humanitarian aid was an integral part of Hungarian foreign policy. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to remind you that the ministerial response to my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy's written question revealed that the Hungarian Government, by its government decision of 1513/2016, established the Deputy State Secretary responsible for helping persecuted Christians, which, from 9 October 2018, has been the Secretary of State responsible for helping persecuted Christians and implementing the Hungarian Helps programme. Here, according to the ministerial response, the amount of projects managed by the State Secretariat amounted to HUF 4.7 billion. And it turns out that the following organizations received support: the Iraqi Calvin Catholic Archbishop worth some 580 million forints; the St. Joseph's Hospital for Internal Refugees cost HUF 145 million to provide the medicine for the internal refugees; the Alkos school was rebuilt with HUF 261 million; the Syrian Orthodox Church in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon and the Syrian Catholic Church received HUF 310-310 million for humanitarian aid; the reconstruction of the Boko Haram terrorist organization in Nigeria also cost HUF 310 million for reconstruction; the Greek Catholic Archdiocese in Aleppo for the renovation of the school and humanitarian aid of HUF 620 million; the Latin patriarchal Vicaria of Jordan for the help of Christians, for the construction of a church of 360 million forints; and for the energy modernisation of the Markai school providing education to war refugees; the Syrian Maronite Catholic Church in Lebanon, for HUF 310 million for the purpose of building a seminar on priests in Jordan and for the Eastern Church in Iraq. Here the adoption of the bill on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid, as I said, was supported by the MSZP. In addition to the arguments and materials listed in the foregoing, it was also considered that the Minister for Foreign Economy should draw up a policy strategy for the planning of international development cooperation activities and for policy coherence for development purposes for a period of at least four years. The policy strategy identifies sectoral priorities and the inter-relationship committee for international development cooperation proposes to the foreign and economic minister the range of partner countries to be supported. At the same time, it is not clear how much the involvement of the Prime Minister's Office in the implementation of international development projects overrides the former professional attitude of the Ministry, at least declared by law, in particular that the justification of the bill makes it clear that in the event of crisis, international development activities with long-term objectives will be put in the background and replaced by international assistance. In order to be effective, it is essential to provide rapid assistance, which requires the provision of contingency and immediate mobilisation resources. The proposal therefore aims to provide the Prime Minister's Office with adequate financial resources. The above-mentioned objectives of the programme, as I have registered, set out about three of these objectives: helping persecuted Christian communities as target groups, and supporting projects to help victims of humanitarian disasters and, thirdly, the protection of free religious practice, in particular, the preservation and residence of persecuted Christian and other religious minorities. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-170	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, notary, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[19.00]]
u2018-11-28-171	Mr President, Dear House, This is a bill that I find very difficult to separate from everything that has been said in this debate. It is Hungary's own initiative to play a role in supporting those in need in the world, and to help Hungary in some way, as a relatively well-off country in international comparison, in other parts of the world, that can hardly be disputed. The text of the bill itself, if you look only at the text, actually contains a number of positive aspects. In itself, it is okay to have a legislative regulation about this; in case this will help Hungary Helps employees to operate more effectively and effectively. However, what was said in the expo or in the debate caused me very serious doubts. Secretary of State, it is a very serious loss of role that, with your one-year practice, you think, with a few years of practice in the Hungary Helps programme, that the large aid organisations and the large donor countries, which are really helping, will learn from you how to do this. All of this, after you've taken them away to all sorts of unfortunate country-wrecking Europe-destroying countries, you're going to tell them how badly they're doing it, and how well you're doing it. I must say that this kind of attitude is typical of this government, but it does not lead anywhere in the world in the international community, nor does it otherwise serve the interests of those you claim to want to help. I can see from your speech and your fellow Members' contributions that this is nothing more than a Patymkin programme. He says, Mr State Secretary, that we should not say that Hungary is not in solidarity. Dear Secretary of State, do you really think this can be solved with a program this big? It is indeed a drop in the sea, and I agree with the congresswoman that if a drop helps, then help must be given. Why do you have to add that pompous line to it so only we know it, the others have no idea? This includes what you say about migration. Don't be ridiculous, my dear Secretary of State, my dear fellow Members. Will this program stop the civil war in Syria? Will this program provide security in Afghanistan? Will that stop climate change? [[Intercoms from Fidesz: We didn't say that!]] Yes, you can. They talk about the need to tackle migration in this way. Don't be ridiculous. Stop pretending that this programme is in any way related to migration. I know it's mandatory, it could be said 347 times that George Soros, migration, stop him, and we're just smart, and everyone else in the helicopter, we just know how this thing is. Let us take the country and Hungary's reputation a little seriously at least when we are planning a product abroad, because this is what they were talking about! Let me finally mention a third element. You are now a binding word for Christian and Christianism. But thank God, Christian culture is strong, it endures, and Christianity and Christian faith are strong, there is no need to fear you. But tell me, where did you read in Christendom, where did Christianity teach that only our fellow Christian should be helped? Where was he? What Christian teaching says that only a Christian is worthy of protection and support? That is what this programme is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, I have a suggestion. Be honest with me. Do not embarrass Hungary by calling this program Hungary Helps! Call this program the Tartuffe program. That would be more appropriate. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-172	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Usual applause! Was that the keynote speech?]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. In two minutes, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász asks for the floor, KDNP.
u2018-11-28-173	Thank you for the floor. I'd respond to two things. On the one hand, as an international lawyer, I see, not only as a Member of Parliament, that the programme is truly unique in its direct contact with the communities and local communities. In general, multilateral cooperation and international organisations cannot represent this uniqueness. As the Secretary of State has said, there are differences between countries in what kind of community needs. I would like to give you two examples in which Hungary Helps created a unique one. One in Erbil, Iraq, when we renovated the hospital: it is used not only by Christians but also by other religious denominations. This shows the example that the program does not apply only to Christians. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other: also in Iraq, in the case of Tell-Askuf, nearly a thousand family houses were partially renovated thanks to the Hungary Helps program, and as a result nearly a thousand families moved back to the settlement. These communities think traditionally and traditionally, so if the church is okay, the hospital is okay, their buildings are okay, they don't want to migrate from their homeland. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-174	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment on the debate as a cue. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2018-11-28-175	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to begin by thanking the Jobbik faction for their support, or, if I have interpreted the words correctly, at least partial or conditional support from the MSZP faction. I would like to turn this way to Congressman Gergely Arató. First of all, it's just an ideal basis. I have always appreciated it as repulsive when Christian Democrat politicians and public figures and speakers are tried to criticize falsely and indiscriminately Christian reasoning by politicians who, in any case, have repeatedly shown themselves, at several points, at least as far as their party is concerned, about serious anti-churchism. In this case, too, while we were talking about Christian principles, I would like to read a quote from the Scriptures. The apostle Paul wrote in his letter to the Galatians: "So, while we have time, let us do good to all, and especially to those who are brothers in the faith. If, by the way, you were right that we would only support Christians, otherwise even in the Christian theological argument system, this would be morally correct, but at the same time it is not right in the basic assumption. Hungary helps, Hungary helps not only persecuted Christians. Hungarian humanitarian aid and international development are trying to reach everyone as far as our resources are concerned. Anyone in need, who would otherwise be forced to leave his home, we try to make it possible to stay in place, regardless of their religious or ethnic background. The reason why Hungary strongly supports the cause of persecuted Christians is that, in addition to the fact that as a country or nation with Christian cultural roots, it is our moral duty to deal with them in particular, the silent fact that Christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world. This seems to be such a comprehensive political statement. On the other hand, surveys, human rights research in this regard, show that conservative estimates also show that more than 50 percent of the people in the world who are persecuted for their faith or conscience are Christians. By the way, in 2014, this ratio reached 80 percent in the power of the Islamic State and Boko Haram, but we do not see this problem. This is no problem, this historic humanitarian disaster on the agenda of international organisations, human rights organisations. So when we take up this issue, when we provide targeted humanitarian support in addition to other humanitarian beneficiaries, this is also a political message that this needs to be addressed. The world cannot look the other way in a hypocritical way by ignoring a series of historical genocides, a humanitarian disaster. This is our human duty, not just our Christian, human duty to deal with. [[19.10]] His comments on the fact that international organisations know this better, and how we come to commend our effectiveness on the basis of a two-year programme. In addition to listing all kinds of incomprehensible arguments, I would like to state the case of the municipality of Tell-Askuf, which has just been mentioned. To help the village Tell-Askuf and the Christians in Nineveh, the island of Nineveh, whose infrastructure was destroyed by the Islamic State, was also theoretically supported by the UN asylum organisation and its development programme. We base our program on personal experience. We are not trying to be smarter than our supporters from Budapest. We went there, surveyed the situation, and asked the persecuted people, the persecuted Christian and otherwise Yazidian leaders, what they needed, what their experiences were. We were presented with the results of the UN's competent programme, its reconstruction support, and they showed us a destroyed settlement that was rebuilt, and it was the Patymkin program, because it included this support and its use that the walls of the buildings were laundered into light blue and painted the UN logo, but if we entered a building, it was burned out. We may have had the hatches, but the basic wall structures, the internal partitioning elements, were left damaged. These buildings were useless, and there's a reason for that. The results of these organisations, and perhaps the good intentions of their decision-makers, are not questioned by the practice that, first, these organisations take 30-40 percent of the donations for so-called administrative or programme costs and a small part of them arrive at the supported groups. And even if it arrives to the supported groups, it is not to the most vulnerable and difficult minority groups, such as the Middle East Christians, who are at the mercy of extinction and extinction, but perhaps because of local employees, perhaps because of local authorities, they prefer the majority groups, and the minority group has almost no help. On the other hand, while there was a nominally hundreds of millions of forints of funding spent by international organizations, for example, a settlement called Tell-Aszkuf is located on the Nineveh Plateau, north of Mosul, which was supported by Hungary within the framework of the Hungary Helps programme. This is a settlement where 1300 Christian families lived when they were captured in 2014 by terrorists of the Islamic State and by terrorists and bloody atrocities, fleeing them, all 1300 families had to flee from here. This settlement has changed hands several times. It was released in 2016, but more than 900 residential buildings were damaged by the devastation of the Islamic State and the fighting. For example, the temple was used as a shooting target by terrorists of the Islamic State, but first the cemetery was destroyed to destroy not only its present but also its past for Christians. After that, within the framework of the Hungary Helps program, we supported the Iraqi Cald Catholics with 580 million HUF, who put these buildings in a habitable state. It is very important that we did not support international organisations here, and they did not try to repair the buildings in a way that we supported the church itself, the community, and the result was that 1000 of the 1,300 fled families returned. 1,000 returned to the settlement in the country where Christianity had fallen to one fifth in 14 years and decreased to one fifth in 2,000 years. Clearly, this community will disappear from Christendom's cradle. Within the framework of the Hungary Helps program, not only did we save a community, but it is almost undeserving that the locals have named the village Tell-Askuf bint-el-Mazzar, the daughter of Tell-Askuf, Hungary. Here I would like to address the Member's comment that we are not going to solve this crisis alone, and that is not our intention. It is not our intention to solve this whole crisis alone, not even because we can only help the persecuted on the international stage in a proportionate manner. Of course, the Hungarian government's task is to help the Hungarian people thrive, that's what we do, that's what we do, and that's why we work, and we can support the troubles of distant lands in proportion. So our goal is not to boast or even to pursue the ambition of solving this crisis alone, but our goal is that while Tell-Askuf is called the daughter of Hungary, next to Tell-Askuf, there should be a settlement called the son of Germany or even the grandchildren of the United Nations. Our goal is to set an example, which we would not only like to extend with satisfaction, but also by building an international coalition, building an international cooperation, which, by the way, is surrounded by a general indifference, but is now a success. Firstly, we started working with Poland, the Polish government, and announced the first programme to support a Christian orphanage in Syria, and we are in advanced consultation with the United States' development organization, which we are currently in the project selection phase. So the Hungarian example is sticky, the Hungarian example must cover it, because there are masses of people. Only 215 million people in the world deserve to be contacted by the developed Western, often Christian-based world and cultural-based world. I ask for your support for this, for your support, and we call on the international public to do so, as well as the support of other governments and international organisations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-28-176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the day of Hungarian-Székely accession is now taking place until closure. Presentation submitted by representatives of István Szávay, László Lóránt Keresztes, Zsolt Molnár, Olivio Kocsis-Cake, László Szászfalvi, Károly Panczél H/2681. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2018-11-28-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After decades of parliamentary struggle, in the spring of 1848 the best of the Hungarian reform era finally created a modern Hungary, led by a government responsible for parliament, guaranteeing civil liberties and equality of civil rights. Our political, intellectual and social leaders have given up their privileges in a thin way in order to be able to save Hungary and Hungary from the catastrophe predicted by Herder, by using the use of contemporary language, and by accepting the broadest possible layers of people among the ruins of the Constitution. We have done this by setting an unprecedented example for Europe and for its nation-thinking, freedom-loving and civil relations countries and people. In the decade-long struggle of blowing off feudalism, our nation was able to succeed against the attempts of the Habsburg Reign to merge. However, the fruits of the success of Széchenyi, Eötvös or Deák could not only be enjoyed by the Hungarian people, but also by all the people of the Carpathian Basin, even though we tend to forget it nowadays. They were also subject to the extension of the freedom of right-to-rights liberation, property acquisition and enterprise, thus the possibility of social ascent, but also the freedom of the press, religion and conscience, as well as equality before the law and the burden on the public. This was the full scope of the rights that were available at the time. No European country has provided more to its religious or national minorities. However, the Viennese Court was not interested in the peaceful development of reforms under civil conditions, but in the restoration of unlimited monarchy absolutism, so it confronted the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin by expressing false passwords, promising, threatening, and using the principle of the ancient, divide and conquering. Its aim was merely to obtain the momentary tactical advantage, so that, once it was overcome by the revolutions that were also rampant in other provinces, it could restore absolutism to Pest. [[19.20]] For us, however, all this has generated a bloody, devastating civil war that has been determining the relationship between the peoples of the region since then, especially in the South and Transylvania, with mixed ethnic compositions. Dear Parliament, As a result of the effective minework of the Viennese Chamberilla, an uprising started in the summer of 1848 not only among the Croatians living in a centuries-old co-national relationship with Hungarians, but also among the Serbs protecting the southern border guard region and the Romanians who received it from the Tatar and its Turkish attacks in Transylvania during previous centuries. In September, Croat Jellasics has already dealt directly with the capital and the army of the legitimate Hungarian government working there. In the meantime, he began to arm himself with Habsburg support in the summer to retaliate for the perceived or real grievances of Transylvania's Romanians, and formed national guards throughout Transylvania. The Transylvanian Romanians, under the influence of radically anti-Hungarian leaders and popes, soon covered the land of Transylvania in flames and blood. Despite the unparalleled ethnicity law introduced at the end of September, the booming Romanian uprising bound its fate to the Viennese court. In turn, he threatened the Hungarian government in Pest, which fought with Jellasic, as well as modern civil Hungary with a backstabbing. Dear Parliament, On 16 October 1848 László Berzenczey was gathered in this desperate situation on the call of the Szeklerland Commissioner of Government to find a solution in the Clay Village of 60,000 Szeklers, how to brotherly restore peace and protect the throne in its blessings and the country's silence. On the first day, the assembly announced that it was peacefully related to all the inhabitants of Transylvania, but it also expects the armed Romanians and Saxons to stop all their illegal instigation in their bosoms by treating the instigators with statarialiters, that is to say, stop the senseless riot, punish the ringleaders and restore peace in Transylvania. It is no coincidence that the manifesto "Szász and Romanian brothers, fellow citizens" was born at this time, which was uniquely placed on the ground of total ethnic tolerance, although unfortunately without the slightest manifestation of reciprocity, since the then assembled Szeklers declared that we respect your nationality, language and religion, and we are ready to defend it with the edge of our weapons. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The next day, the Szekler National Assembly of Clay Walls unanimously took a stand in defence of the laws of April, and began to arm the Romanian people of Transylvania who were deceived by imperial troops in Transylvania and by Vienna and their own ponies, but with greater cruelty. So the Szeklery did exactly what the Hungarian nobility had done in Pozsony a few months earlier, and then in Pest. He voted in favour of abolishing the privileges and privileges left over from various Middle Ages. For example, he accepted the obligation to pay taxes, from which his ancestors were free for centuries, and whose privilege he had protected for centuries, if necessary, with weapons. Let's just think about who would vote to pay rather than not pay taxes these days. I suspect quite few. However, the Szeklery also made this sacrifice because it knew precisely that it had a place in the modern Hungarian nation, and it had to look for its prosperity and prosperity, not under Avít feudal conditions, but under civil conditions. By declaring the armed protection of modern civil Hungary, born with the laws of April, not only to avoid the military destruction of the war of independence, but also to continue the work of the otherwise legitimate parliament and government, but also to protect the peaceful civilian population of Transylvania from the arbitrary acts and lootings of Austrian soldiers and Romanian people who joined them. The psychological effects of the decision go far beyond even the significance of the change in direct military forces. The united stand of the Szeklery had a positive effect on both the fighters in battlefields and those who helped in the hinterland the cause of the Hungarian Revolution and the fight for freedom, and last but not least determined the location of the Szeklery in the united Hungarian civilian nation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well that it is heartwarming for many Hungarian people thinking in a nation to talk about and urge the independent nationalism of the Szeklery. I also know that on the Internet there is a lot of nonsense about this, that if Hungary declared the Szeklers to be independent nationalities, then Romania, for example, should be given territorial autonomy immediately. There was also a proposal for a resolution before this House in which we were asked to support the recognition of the Szeklerhood as a national minority. However, the success of this initiative would have had the opposite effect, separated it from the mother country supporting autonomy and made the Székely more untidy in this fight. That is why I think it is important to clarify: both Jobbik and all the parliamentary parties with a sensitivity to the subject thought that the Szeklery proved to be part of the united modern civil Hungarian nation no later than 170 years ago at the Clay Wall Assembly, and that it is willing to defend our common affairs with weapons and blood. The Romanian Securiate has been working on our new separation since the 1980s, and we have seen it as an example, but we should not doubt that if many people had fallen for it, the result would be that, for example, language usage rights could be reduced in more places, as the number of those claiming to be Székely would have been removed from the number of people using the Hungarian language without any problem. The initiative, however, was immediately pushed out by the strong immune system of the Szeklery, out of the 650-700 thousand Szeklers living in Transylvania, only over a thousand declared themselves to be Szeklers instead of Hungarians. There is no greater proof that the decision of the Clay Wall ancestors is still alive in Szeklerland, as the locals continue to imagine their prosperity and growth as part of the united Hungarian nation. Dear Parliament, It is a great pleasure for me that, as in 1848 the Szeklers in Clay Village, so now the Hungarian Parliament can offer a rarely seen national consensus. There has been an example of this in connection with the minority protection initiative or the condemnation of the Ukrainian educational law, but in the case of opposition motion, we should think together here for a long time until we can find such a proposal, especially when it comes to memory policy and national policy. I would therefore like to welcome the fact that the governing parties have been able to overcome their many experiences in this matter and have joined my presentation. When I presented the proposal on the 16th of October, the 170th anniversary, I talked about not wanting to take the initiative, so I asked all the factions to join our motion, so that we could put a proposal that was really adopted by national consensus on the table of the nation, strengthening our cross-border union and our community of fate. This is confirmed by the fact that after the meeting of the National Assembly Committee a few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to have a word with one of our guests, Balázs Izsák, President of the Székely National Council, who also confirmed that we could not find a better date for this Memorial Day, since 16 October is the symbol of the transfiguration of medieval traditions, the eradication of feudalism in Szeklerland and the accession of the Szeklerhood to a modern civil nation. I think this is an excellent message for our Szekler brothers. I am pleased that the LMP immediately joined our proposal, thank you for that. Then, with the exception of Ferenc Gyurcsány, he took this in the name of all parliamentary parties. It can therefore be adopted with the rarely experienced consensus. We are pleased to see the development of the Left's national political character, and I thank you for the support of the MSZP and the Dialogue. [[The intervention of Lajos Korózs.]] Dear fellow Members, In 1848 Budapest was in trouble, and the Szeklery came to his aid. Today, however, the Szeklerland and Transylvania, as well as the Hungarians there, are in ever greater trouble, because there is a threat of loss and destruction. Our position on this matter has always been clear: without the broad territorial autonomy of the Szeklerland based on a well-established example of South Tyrol, the long-term survival and growth of those living there cannot be imagined. We have, of course, supported and recognised the usefulness and results of various government programmes for education, culture, infrastructure and economic development. However, in 1848 the Szeklers not only sent the money or the cannon, they armed themselves to protect the civil Hungary with their lives. [[19.30]] We must do exactly the same today. In addition to subsidies, we must stand by the legitimate autonomy of Szeklerland with effective diplomacy. We have an autonomous Szeklerland, which is able to grow and offer a vision for its young people, not from Hungarian subsidies, but from locally generated and locally used incomes. A Szeklerland whose future is decided not in Bucharest or Budapest, but primarily in Muresvásárhely, Sepsiszentgyörgy, Csíkszereda and Székelyudvarhely, while receiving assistance and support from either the Romanian or Hungarian state. A Szeklerland that Romanians do not treat as a foreign body within the Romanian nation state, but as an autonomous region that is a fundamental guarantee of stability between the country and the region. And a Seclerland that recognises and guarantees the rights of Romanians who live in minorities in its territory in the most natural way. For this reason, and for the territorial and cultural autonomy of the other Hungarian populated regions in the Carpathian Basin, all Hungarian representatives will have to fight in the European Parliament, and we will do the same ourselves, because Gábor Áronék's struggle 170 years ago and our national union oblige us to do so today. Thank you for listening, and I ask you to support the six-party proposal on the day of Hungarian-Székely joining together. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-178	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr. Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] In the end, all right. Thank you. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Károly Panczél, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-28-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Proposal for a decision on the day of Hungarian-Székely joining together, or we can also say that on the day of the Hungarian-Székely unity. Many people say that this is an evidence, and it is unnecessary to put it in the form of a resolution proposal, yet I would like to argue that this is an important thing, even if it is natural for all of us, there are things that make it worthwhile to strengthen this unity and this union. First of all, I would like to justify what our fellow Member Szávay spoke about, with the question of the national minimum, and I think that it is precisely national policy, on which some fundamental issues can be agreed by the Hungarian political parties, the Hungarian political parties, because when we say that our aim is to ensure that Hungary, even though it lives in the Carpathian Basin, but can remain in its homeland and even grow in its homeland, is a principle in which there is a national consensus. The fact that Hungary bears responsibility for Hungarians abroad, which is included in Article D of our new Fundamental Law, or, as Dezső Szabó said at the time, that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, I think that is a principle that can be a national minimum. As are the two examples of this which Mr President has listed from the parliamentary life of the past period. Such was the joint action against the Ukrainian language law, and this was the stand for the Minority SafePack, the national minority protection initiative. And indeed, this day of accession discussed today also made a proposal for a resolution by six parliamentary parties not only to support it, but also to give national representatives to this proposal for a resolution. It is the only parliamentary force, the extremist sect calling itself the Democratic Coalition, who does not support this resolution proposal. This proposal for a decision is evident, which we must confirm. There are several reasons for this. We have been separated from Transylvanian Hungarians and Szeklerland Szeklers for a long time, not only for hundreds of years, but hundreds of years. Back then, the Transylvanian gathering world was such a distant, mystical and separate world, and it only escalated when the XVI. The country was divided into three parts in the century. In the middle of today's motherland was the Turkish occupation, the Habsburgs ruled the Hungarian Kingdom in its narrow western and northern lane, and the Transylvanian Sovereignship existed separately, which in our history had the significance that at that time, at the time when there was no home, only a nation, that Transylvanian Princeship embodied Hungarian statehood. During the Habsburg reign, the Transylvanian Princeship was under separate administration in the empire, and this was precisely what the . 48 was about, since in the March of the 12 points the Union was one of the key elements of Transylvania with Transylvania. And in Trianon, we have spoken many times for nearly a hundred years of our separation. We have done a lot in recent times to restore the relationship and restore it across borders. It is a fundamental fact, which is also expressed by the word relationship, Székely-Hungarian, that we are members of a Hungarian people. By the way, the existence of the Szeklery gives us strength to our national identity, and on the other hand, the motherland and other Hungarian communities across the border are also given strength and strength to the Szeklery and their survival in Romania. Evidence and yet we confirm this union, and sharing would be the biggest mistake. A week or two ago, the Hungarian Parliament discussed the proposal that the Szeklers, the Szeklers, are a separate nationality in Hungary. Quite rightly, the majority in Parliament rejected this initiative, however much we sympathize with the Szeklers, or with the Szeklers in Hungary, yet the support of such a one when we decide to separate Hungarians and Szeklers would not only be a mistake, but a sin. Would it be a crime to give an opportunity at a next Romanian census to ask the question whether you are Hungarian or Székely? We are not talking about a Hungarian community of 1.5 million people in Romania, but we are talking about much less then, and this sharing would further jeopardise the survival of Hungarians, their language use and their access to culture. Dear House, The Hungarian-Szekler union gives the Szeklers strength. I think that if we accept this proposal for a resolution, it will give us the strength to fight, to fight for autonomy or for self-determination. I believe that autonomy is what really helps long-term survival, prosperity, and, by the way, it also brings social peace and prosperity to the majority state. To do this, we must give all the help we need, by economic means, if necessary, by political means or, if necessary, by diplomatic means, to help the Szeklers do so. I would go back to the words of Gábor Bethlen, who said that we can't always do what we have to do, but always do what we can. And let's do what we can to support the Szeklers. The proposal for a resolution also recalls a historic event. A fuss in front of the Szekler heroics, a fuss in front of the Szekler National Assembly of Clay Walls. At that time, the Szeklers stood up for the nation, stood up for the laws of April, and were able to defend the results of the revolution against the masses that the Habsburgs angered, as well as the security of Transylvanians. Their standing and their love for the Hungarian nation were respectable, which should be remembered in a worthy way. [[19.40]] Remember this 60,000 Szekler and October 16, 1848. I would like to thank Mr State Secretary, through him, the State Secretary for National Policy, the Government, because this is not the first time on the agenda. On one question, Mr Szávay asked this question, the day of Hungarian-Székely accession, what the government's attitude to this proposal for a resolution was, and then Minister of State said that the Hungarian government provided HUF 20 million for the further development of the small museum in Clay Village. Thank you for making Transylvanian commemorations more beautiful next year. The Fidesz fraction will support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-180	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-28-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join both the expo and the speech of my fellow Member with Fidesz as the lead speaker, and remembering the glory of the Clay Wall, remembering the action of the Szeklers there, please allow me to share a personal experience, thus proving that the day of Hungarian-Szekler accession is a worthy commemoration of this friendship, of this union, which, there can be no question, that the Parliament of Hungary should support this. Four years ago, I first had the opportunity to visit Szeklerland, as deputy mayor of Siófok, we visited the sister town of Gyergyószentmiklós. The feeling when you leave your country, you go 400 kilometers, and the Hungarians welcome you with love in Hungarian mother tongue, and there is a friendly atmosphere at every meeting, even at the meetings that are official, to feel the love that is flowing towards us; to me, it proved that despite being disconnected, even hundreds of miles from here our Szekler brothers live, their belongings will continue, and that is the day that will make 16 October a day of Hungarian-Székely joining together, and here we will be able to celebrate it worthyly, and which in the proposal for a resolution is the issue of commemorative coins, commemorative stamps, which can be even more confirmed. I'd like to share one more experience with you. I visited Gyergyószentmiklós every year in December, but this year I also made it to Hargita in Madaras with my family. That's where a man's tears come out. That is the atmosphere that is taking place in Szeklerland, and with this day, which I also thank my fellow Members with respect for the fact that this could be a six-party proposal, and you supported us and my fellow Member István Szávay in order to make 16 October a day of Hungarian-Szekler union. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-28-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government, we have achieved indisputable results in national policy, laying down a common framework. One of the pillars of this is Article D of our Fundamental Law, which was also mentioned by my fellow Member, which states responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside the border. This is also the priority of our law on witnessing for national cohesion. One million new Hungarian citizens also confirm our successful nation building. The proposal for a decision on the day of Hungarian-Székely accession is supported by KDNP, as it is committed to thinking in a united nation. We consider it important to commemorate the 1848 Clay Wall National Assembly on 16 October and to pay tribute to our fellow Székely countrymen who have testified to Hungary and the cause of universal Hungarianism. All efforts to promote and strengthen the unity of Hungarians and Szeklers, in accordance with Article D of our Fundamental Law, are of paramount importance. Finally, let me quote here from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech, which he said in Tusnadfürdő at the 29th Idolos Summer University:, We know that in Bucharest they say that there is no Szeklerland. The fact is, however, that it existed even when modern Romania has not yet existed, and as I look around here, knowing the people here, I can safely say that Szeklerland will exist even when all of Europe has surrendered to Islam. We can be sure of that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-184	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-28-185	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to anticipate that we will support this Parliamentary resolution proposal, and there are two reasons for that. One: I did not want to be an actuator, as opposed to the previous speaker, but I still want a sentence out of me, namely that today in Brussels the Hungarian MEPs received an invitation from the Romanian state, being the Romanian state 100 years old. On second thought, even I might be worth it, being 100 years old, of course I just said that with a little bit of malaria. In this invitation, it is grossly stated that in 1918 the Transylvanian Hungarians voted that they decided to join Romania. Just one of my fellow Members wrote to me that he was in Brussels, but we were on the same side, and he said that he strongly rejects this reception and others, and that they are quite rightly not attending the Romanian state holiday. I have to say, it's a disgusting thing. All the more so, I say, now linked to my fellow Member Szávay's exposé, that, yes, the Szeklers have set an example, although history has not been kind to them. Even more so, because the age of the Empire was mentioned here, I could also mention the danger of Mádéfalu, how many times, but how many times, the Hungarians and, among other things, the Szeklery, practically had to leave their homeland nearly 300 years ago, and then how the Szeklery and the Hungarians split up in Transylvania. I have to put Sándor Sára's great documentary, the grave in front of me, and I have many historical examples. Fate is that, as part of the revolution and freedom struggle of 1848, my family was involved in it, not at any post or level, so please note that at the same time, the Szeklery, organizing its own defence, declared equality to the Germans, Saxons and Romanians living there. The peace was relayed, and it is the end of fate that just those Romanians who had just brought freedom, the liberation of citizens, the liberation of the serfs, were confronted by the Hungarian politics at the time, and the thinking politicians and doers in Szeklerland had just brought them liberation. I had to say this in support of the proposal. In addition, I believe that all initiatives should be supported, either for scientific conferences, for various conferences, for publications, for commemorations, and I myself believe that if the government has to devote itself to something, it is absolutely necessary to provide funds for these events, conferences, scientific treatise and publications in the budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-28-186	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund in two minutes. [[19.50]]
u2018-11-28-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond very briefly to what has been said as a Member of Szekler origin. First of all, I welcome the proposal for a resolution. I also welcome the support of all six parties, and today the Szeklers have once again brought peace here in this House, as it is good to live, to live, to live, to have such a debate, or to have this kind of parliamentary debate. So I'm very happy to welcome this unit to the Szekler case. In the Commission's debate, I said that it was not possible to make a proposal for a decision on the issue, since it is clear that the Szekler and the Hungarian nation belong together, one, if you will. But this unit was attacked by a conversion of the fact that they wanted the Szeklers to be recognised as nationalities in Hungary. So it is important that we stand up for what is right, and in these difficult times, in the context of the 100-year anniversary, it is also important to stand up for the Szeklers, to stand for autonomy, as Mr Pánczél said. Of course, this unity is based on the national policy that the Hungarian Government, led by Viktor Orbán, has created over the last eight years, and which is still represented by the State Secretariat for National Policy, under the leadership of the State Secretary, and is still doing excellently today. It is important that this unity of national politics remains. And perhaps even so that, together with my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, we have initiated that the title should not be a "merchance', but that it should be an "unit', so let us also express in the title that it is not a bonding of two things, but a strengthening of an obvious unit. So with great respect, we would like to initiate the change of the title so that it is not about the day of Hungarian-Székely joining together, but about the day of the Hungarian-Székely unity, thus expressing that it is not about the joining together of two different parts, but about strengthening a large unity. I definitely support the resolution proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-188	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State János Potápi.
u2018-11-28-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My son must have been four or five years old when he asked me that Dad, you're a Szekler, mother is Hungarian, then I'm of what kind. And I said, "Oh, boy, you're a Szekler," and he said, "Oh, good." I think that this surrender also shows that we Szeklers always tend to feel a little different from other Hungarians or perhaps from all the peoples of the world. This may be due to the fact that the Szeklery has always had to organise its own administrative, military, political life, as has been said in the speeches. And he was even more dependent on himself in the Carpathian Basin than the rest of the Hungarians, as he often developed apart from the centers and developed his thousand or a thousand years of history under much more difficult circumstances. We know that without the Szeklery, we may not be able to talk about Hungary today, we cannot even talk about the Hungarian nation, because they have protected Hungary's borders in the last thousand-thousand years and later also its eastern borders. There was no Hungarian campaign, royal or other campaign where the Szeklers were not there, represented or defended Hungary and the whole Hungarians. This was the case in the centuries-old fight against the Tatars, since the last Tartar walk we would not mention happened in 1717, and so was the case during the Turkish campaigns, when they protected not only Transylvania, but often Hungary as well as later in the new era. One of the eloquent proofs of this is that in Austerlitz there is the Copiac tree that serves the memory of the Szekler soldiers who died there, because in the battle of the three emperors, which was on December 2, 1805 there were also the Szekler soldiers, serving Hungary, the empire faithfully. And even more so during the world wars. I think that this day of solidarity or unity will decide which Parliament will support later, even here in the debate, if this can be called a debate, an opportunity, and then at least every year, on the day of commemoration, will give us the opportunity to remember either historical events or today's circumstances, the struggles of autonomy, and all the issues that are on the agenda in national politics. And perhaps this day also gives us the opportunity to remember other famous events and historical events. It took place this weekend in Míkszereda in the Mikó-vár in the Csík Székely Museum, the Székely division, which was established a hundred years ago, which was carried out and organized not by a Hungarian man, but by an imperial military officer, Károly Kratochwil, which consisted of Szekler and not Szekler soldiers. This was the only military force in the break-up, the anarchy, the nihil, when the nation-treasoning government of the country was in Budapest, then they, far from Budapest, defended the country as the only one, and fought for more than six months to keep Transylvania away from the invaders, protect Transylvania, protect their families, and then Hungary. That's what we remembered this weekend. I would like to thank, on the one hand, the Harghita County Municipality, the Municipality of Csíkszereda County City and the Hungarian Consulate-General, which organized this festive event, the three-day conference. And of course, as I mentioned, we also have the opportunity to remember that between 1914-18, the Szeklers and not Szeklers, Hungarians, together, protected Hungary during the First World War, and later, serving on the Arbat line in 1944-45, these soldiers were also there. I think that it is a great initiative, an initiative that brings together not only the Szeklers and Hungarians, but perhaps also gives Parliament the opportunity to speak in a normal sound bed in a confused domestic political situation and to bring unity here before Christmas. I think this is a great time. I would like to thank both Mr Szávay and the Members who have joined this proposal. Of course, as I have already said twice, the Government supports the proposal and recommends that Parliament accept it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-28-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am asking if anyone else would like to comment on what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[István Szávay: Yes.]] Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2018-11-28-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have already been with him, after eight years in almost nine Parliaments, that I have considered the greatest occasions or times of my work so far to be able to contribute to something truly important and truly close to my heart. It was a time like this, and perhaps one of the most important things for me when I was able to press the yes button in the vote on the Double Citizenship Act. I have a somewhat similar feeling now, when this contribution to a case that may persist later may be a little more than that, and I will probably feel something similar even when the final vote of this law can take place. Thank you all very much for your comments. Thank you very much, everyone, for what you have added to the ideas that I have tried to sum up on this proposal, whether it is a historical look-out, sharing personal experiences or even reporting on the results of the last year in this regard. [[20.00]] I thank the parliamentary parties who have joined this. Indeed, there is an almost complete consensus. I didn't expect much goodwill from the Democratic Coalition on this matter. They didn't feel it was important to come. I, perhaps in a weird way, still ask them to consider their rejection. Obviously, we can do without them, but perhaps this consensus could be a little stronger if the Hungarian Parliament did not display a presence on its display and, in worse cases, did not vote in the final vote on this proposal. I'm telling you, I don't have any illusions. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your support from the beginning, for this matter, which I raised in my speech before an agenda which, according to Parliament's custom, does not need to be submitted in advance, so, despite an unexpected question, as opposed to opposition, Mr Secretary of State said immediately in his reply, that he would examine the proposal. I think you may have said that that thought is not far from you. It is very important that I thank you from here too, because it was important to support and agree with Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén on this matter. Several people have raised it, and I have also talked about the fact that in the political situation where there is a great deal of disagreement between the parties of the government and the opposition, and even on a number of issues, the parties of the opposition, on the basis of various logics, it is important to have a debate which, as the Secretary of State said, was not a debate. Several of my fellow members of the Government have also drawn attention to the fact that it would be good to have more of these opportunities, and it would be good to have such a consensus on the most important issues in national policy. I would also like to confirm the need for this. On most occasions, it has not been up to us to establish these consensuss. I have always said before, perhaps Mr Secretary of State is a little tired of the fact that constructive opposition sometimes requires a bit of constructive pro-government. I am very pleased that we have this in this case, and I really hope that we will see a little more understanding and a little more cooperation in the future, at least on issues of national policy, at least on matters that are really about the whole of Hungary. We'll definitely be doing this for our part. It is therefore a great pleasure for me that there is such support behind this proposal, and obviously we will have to discuss the various amendments here with our fellow Members, but I would like to emphasise once again what I said when the proposal was put forward that we definitely consider it important to be able to make a joint decision on this matter together, to bring a joint, consensual proposal to the House. In the beginning, this intention motivated us to take the whole case from the outset by asking for the accession of other factions, not simply by supporting the proposal. It is a great pleasure for me, and I would like to emphasise this once again, if you will allow me at the end, although I have already said this in my national expo, I think it is important that Balázs Izsák, President of the Székely National Council, has also given his support to this proposal, and he considered the timing to be good and appropriate. I trust that this can indeed be a day of remembrance that, as the years pass, can contribute to the Hungarian-Szekler union, the Hungarian-Szekler unity, and that Hungarians and Hungarian young people in Hungary can experience this union as much as possible, thus strengthening our community of fate in the Carpathian Basin, thus strengthening the feeling of national solidarity. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-28-192	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. General debate on the bill amending law and other related laws until closure. Government referral T/3615. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-28-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, In 2015, the government decided to establish a career in law enforcement, with the determined objective of gradually increasing the attractiveness of the public service track and improving the income position and financial appreciation of professional stock. However, a successful and predictable career model for law enforcement cannot be imagined without settling the status of more than 10,000 civil servants and government officials employed in the bodies. The T/3615 that we have just discussed. The legislative proposal No 1 contains the necessary uniform rules for this purpose. The proposal covers civil servants and government officials in the law enforcement sector, such as the police, the National Defence Service, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, national security services, professional disaster response bodies, prison enforcement agencies, organisation. In its content, it allows for a predictable system of advancement, based on balanced regulation of rights and obligations, which also ensures a substantial salary increase. Data subjects will be transferred to new employment status and to the service of law enforcement staff. The new legal status regime is referred to as the "Szt. It will be developed within the framework of its own system, in its own chapter. For the sake of a single public service system, the rules of the new legal relationship to be negotiated will gradually take into account the main features and provisions of the bill on government administration before the House, in particular the ratio of rights and obligations. One of the basic principles of the bill is that law enforcement staff in the affected area can only be employed in the new legal relationship with the various law enforcement bodies. It is important to point out that law enforcement staff are integrated into a career-based profession in the event of their contribution. Thus, their obligations to the Shst. Its binding system will be designed in accordance with the characteristics of civil society status, with a proportionate reduction. The law enforcement administrative service is a special relationship between the law enforcement body and the law enforcement staff. Both parties are subject to specific obligations and are entitled to rights. The additional obligations of law enforcement are indicated by the fact that the law enforcement employee fulfils his obligations arising from the legal relationship by accepting the restriction of certain fundamental rights. In exchange for this commitment, the law enforcement body shall provide the necessary conditions for the fulfilment of the obligations, the higher remuneration, benefits and benefits laid down by law. New status rules take into account the time spent in the service, and the proposal introduces continuous benchmarking and planned further training. The new salary system to be set up is based on Hst. basis in terms of service time and levels of payment, but also includes a track-based salary system already established in the public service. Jobs are classified into job categories in terms of classification and progress, taking into account educational attainment. A new element is the stricter conflict of interest regime and the scope of professional ethics rules and the possibility of secondment from law enforcement interests. The new status regime shall enter into force on 1 February 2019 by establishing the salary by 28 February 2019, taking into account the consent of the data subjects, the necessary employer arrangements for the reclassification and details thereof shall be drawn up by 28 February 2019. At the same time, the introduction of the new legal status regime represents a significant increase in wages, as in 2019 the government will provide a further 55 percent increase in wages for the sector and in the years 20-21-22. Thus, the submitted bill helps non-professionals working in the law enforcement sector to do their job on strict terms and conditions linked to a career model, with better living conditions. I ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.10]]
u2018-11-28-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, on behalf of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-28-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the general and detailed justification of the bill before us sufficiently details the positive objectives that have been added orally to the purpose of the present package, as well as the fact that, if I may say so, I would like to make the point of expressing our group's position and the most important content. T/3615 amending Act 2015 on the Service of Professional Staff of Law Enforcement Bodies Legislative bill No.3 sets out a number of positive and forward-looking measures to consolidate the relationship between so-called civilian personnel. The purpose of the bill is therefore to establish a new statute for civil servants and government officials in the law enforcement sector, which is able to ensure, in the long term, that the staff concerned have a stable, predictable career and that the employers' organisations have a sufficiently flexible employment framework adapted to both the characteristics and the tasks performed. It is clear from the legislation that it is based on balanced regulation of rights and obligations, provides a substantial salary increase and allows for a predictable system of progress for those concerned. In order to standardise the relations between the civil servants mentioned above, the development of a new legal status was justified instead of the current civil servants and government officials, which is adapted to the law enforcement nature of the occupational body and to the content of the activities carried out at the same time. This means that civil servants and government officials employed in the law enforcement sector concerned will be replaced by their former civil servants and government services in a new employment status and in a law enforcement administrative service relationship. The law enforcement administrative service will be a special relationship between the law enforcement body acting on behalf of the State and the law enforcement staff by appointment and acceptance. The further aim of the regulation is to introduce a uniform career in a stable, predictable way, and to ensure consistency, in addition to stipending. The new legal relationship is governed by the known Act of 2015 on the Service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies, commonly known as the HSzt. In order to ensure the proportionality of the entitlements and obligations, the Board of Directors shall: In addition, the rules of the new legal relationship also take into account the provisions of the Act on Civil Service Officers, the Labour Code, the Law on the Status of Civil Servants and the bill on Government Administration. In view of the fact that the range of law enforcement employees is based on a career-based professional order, it is largely necessary to establish a system of obligations similar to that of Hst. In view of this, the content of the legal relationship should be established in such a way as to ensure that the obligations of Hst. they contain a significant part of its obligation system. It is important that a derogation from the obligations of a professional legal relationship can only be made if the activity provided justifies it. The career model to be developed should be an important part of taking into account senility, introducing benchmarking, developing training programmes and systems; and, of course, also the new salary system. A positive development is the classification of posts in a fixed salary system, taking into account educational attainment, linking benchmarking, career and salary systems, and, last but not least, ensuring a wider margin for the employer to exercise his/her powers, with the possibility of defining lower and upper bands. It can therefore be concluded that the listed elements ensure the unity of the system as well as the necessary flexibility factors for the expression of organizational and individual specialities. The bill before us is the result of a well-thought-out, long and thorough preparation, which significantly contributes to promoting the career model of law enforcement and increasing the retention of law enforcement employees. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-196	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-28-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have a bit of a déjà vu feeling here, and I am thinking about last night's debate, when the opposition has drawn attention to the lack of consultation with trade unions, not to the extent necessary, on several occasions, and in this proposal we know that the two most decisive police unions have been consulted, but we would call this a mere reconciliation, not a substantive and legislative consultation. There is no better evidence of this than the fact that the FRS trade union has identified several points in the proposal that could be very detrimental to non-professional staff, i.e. law enforcement staff. Yes, we can read that there will be wage increases on the career model, but unfortunately there are also restrictions in this legislation that are not sufficiently thought out, and are problematic and worrying not only for trade unions, but also in our view. I would like to highlight a few of these. There is a restriction of personal rights in this bill, because, as in police personnel, in professional police personnel, non-professional workers are also subject to the obligation to make a declaration of assets and not to appear on social networks, to be represented on social networks and to limit the amount of cash held by them. Most of these employees are administrative employees, mostly, I think they are ladies, although I do not have an accurate statement of this, but Mr Secretary of State said that more than ten thousand people are affected here by this legislation. In this legislation, we know that, unlike the work in storage and other drivers, there are administrative employees who are ladies to assist police personnel, and so obviously we know that the probation has already been granted, but an impeccable lifestyle check is necessary to fulfil the job. So they should be similarly subject to national security control, at least that is what the proposal contains, and I think that for an administrative employee, how appropriate and how necessary it is, I would ask the Secretary of State, and I hope that he will be able to answer that. In addition, there is another point in the proposal that this non-professional stock will also be subject to physical fitness events, obligations, which should be done every year. We know very well that this is by category, and then the minister will determine in what time the 2,000 meters should be run, arm bends and other, sit-ups, push-ups back, I ask you how much this is necessary. Is it even necessary for non-professional staff to comply with these requirements? We read that this is part of this legislation, and it will also have to be done for them. [[20.20]] In terms of working time, they are also expected to change, since, so far, it has been possible to order overtime on eight-hour working days, Monday-Friday, as the Labour Code and the applicable rules have allowed them to do so; but from now on, working hours will be extended. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State how justified this is and how justified it is that this should be extended to the non-professional stock. That's what I wanted to give you in summary. We therefore find it a problem that there has been insufficient consultation with the trade unions, because they have raised several concerns and I look forward to Mr State Secretary's reply to my questions. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-198	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Attila Móring József, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-28-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the bill is to establish a new statute for civil servants and government officials in the law enforcement sector. This law can ensure, in the long term, that the staff concerned have a stable, predictable career and that employers' organisations have a sufficiently flexible employment framework adapted to both the characteristics and the tasks performed. The aim of the regulation is to introduce a uniform career, ensuring consistency, in addition to the salary arrangement, to ensure a stable, predictable career. The new legal relationship, i.e. the regulatory basis of the law enforcement administrative service, is XLII 2015 on the service conditions of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Law. One of the basic principles of the regulation is that a member of the personal circle concerned, whose exact name is a law enforcement employee, can only be employed in the new legal relationship with law enforcement agencies. The law sets out exactly which jobs can be performed in the context of the administrative service of the law enforcement body concerned. The bill contains in detail the content of the new legal relationship, and I would like to highlight only a few of these. The administrative service of law enforcement is a special relationship between the law enforcement body acting on behalf of the State and the law enforcement staff. Both parties are subject to specific obligations and are entitled to rights. The additional obligations are indicated by the fact that the law enforcement employee fulfils his obligations arising from the legal relationship by accepting the restriction of certain fundamental rights. In exchange for this undertaking, the law enforcement body shall provide the necessary conditions for the fulfilment of the obligations, the remuneration, benefits and benefits laid down by law. In the case of an administrative relationship, the principles governing the exercise of the rights of the legal entities of the legal relationship are as follows, which provide a guarantee for the fulfilment of this obligation. Prohibition of abuse of the right to co-operate and the requirement of equal treatment. Under the obligation of cooperation, the subjects of the legal relationship must act and cooperate in the exercise of rights and in the fulfilment of obligations in accordance with the principles of good faith and integrity. The Parties shall inform each other of any facts, data, circumstances or changes relevant to the establishment of a legal relationship and the exercise of the rights set out in this Act and the fulfilment of obligations. In relation to legal relations, abuse of law is prohibited and rights and obligations must be exercised and fulfilled in accordance with their intended purpose. According to the bill, the abuse of rights is, in particular, aimed at or leads to the impairment of the legitimate interests of others, the limitation of their ability to assert their interests, the harassment, the suppression of their expression. The adverse consequences of abuse of rights must be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill sets out the principle of equal treatment, which must be maintained in relation to legal relations. This principle is also met by the provision of the bill that the employer's law enforcement body should ensure the promotion of the law enforcement staff without discrimination, which is granted to the data subject solely on the basis of his professional skills, qualifications, practice and performance, as well as on the basis of the time spent in the service. The bill sets out general and specific conditions of employment linked to the establishment of a legal relationship. Compared to other areas of the public sector, the conditions of employment for this employment group are wider. At the same time, it should be stressed that the contribution to an impeccable lifestyle, to national security control, is only a specific condition of application. The legal relationship is established by appointment and acceptance, as a general rule, for an indefinite period. The term of validity of the appointment shall be the oath, until which the law enforcement staff member may not be put to work. The bill makes probation mandatory. The probation period shall be at least 3 months, up to 6 months. During the probation period, the legal relationship may be terminated by either Party without justification, with immediate effect. The selection principle is that the appointment may be made by law or by decision of the law enforcement body on the basis of a restricted or tender procedure; in the case of a tendering procedure, an appointment may be given only to a person who has participated in the tender and who has complied with the tendering conditions. The law enforcement staff may be assigned to another body in the interest of law enforcement, at the discretion of the officials of the law enforcement body or with the agreement of another body and the law enforcement body. The secondment shall be for an indefinite or fixed period of time but not exceeding two years. The law enforcement staff shall comply with the health competence requirements laid down by the Minister, which are not the same as those required for professional staff. As regards the qualification requirements, the bill states as a basic basis that the appointment of a staff member with a higher education degree requires a higher education degree and a degree in the appointment of a staff member with secondary education. Dear fellow Members, The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-28-200	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-28-201	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Disturbing, devastating, distressing, heartbreaking. These indications were sent, among other things, by the expert who sent his expert opinion after the submission of the law. And while, before I go into the details of the law, let me note that the Ministry of the Interior has 12,000 staff under the control of law enforcement agencies, we are most likely talking about at least 12,000 families whose lives are being completely overturned in two months' time, but the Ministry's exposé is not worth more. It wasn't even worth the Minister telling us in person what would happen to these people. Four minutes was less than 54 seconds from the Ministry. I think that says a lot of things. In addition, of course, we will talk about this at 8:30 on Thursday evening. I can tell you the same thing I did in this afternoon's debate about the law on government officials. It's a package of slave laws that the government has filed over the last few days, weeks. The eloquent piece of this is the amendment of Lajos Kósa's workbook, which is the Rias currently to be discussed. , i.e. the Ministry of Interior's submission on law enforcement administrative staff, Haj. law, the law on the status of defence employees. And let's just say that the concept and the government's intentions of this kind fit perfectly with the bill that has not yet been discussed, but has already been submitted, pledging the Immigration Office. These last three topics are different, but the proposals are essentially the same: the construction of the illiberal state announced by Orbán is even faster and shows its true face. This is not something new or modern, but very well known: XX. It's a hundredth-century police state building up. Not more than the applicable communication and monitoring technologies XXI. They're from the century. All three laws are an important step in the road to eliminating public administration in a broad sense, perhaps even the civil nature of the whole public sector, if not one of the last. [[20.30]] The Rainbow. Law and Hair. In law, as I said, it is the same thing in the field of internal affairs and defence: law enforcement and defence bodies cease to have the status of civil servants and thus become civil servants, instead there are strict rules of dependence and restrictions on fundamental rights specific to their profession. The fate of the Immigration and Asylum Office is quite symbolic: it will be converted from a civilian administration to a police body, and most of the government officials who work there will probably simply become policemen. This direction is in stark contrast to what we represent, and it is in stark contrast to what, after a change of regime after a dictatorship, has been shared in this Parliament for the last twenty-some years of democracy, and on the basis of which we have settled our lives together. During the debate and reading of these laws here in Parliament, I always remember the photo of László Kövér, when the young László Kövér, with a sign around his neck, told us that where teachers' salaries are lower than those of the police, it is the police state itself. We are well beyond that, but the fact that you are fully militarising the administration and bringing back the system of the pre-regime regime in both internal affairs and defence, in this case, eliminating the concept of post-system change, so that, in order to be able to do civil work in any area, the limitation of the right should be just as large as this, obviously, you are finally kicking it off, and we can also see the direction in which the concept is going. Professionals and government officials are public servants working under strict conditions, and civil servants are workers who are now terminated as a legal relationship, whose employer happens to be a government body, but their freedom of citizenship is not affected by this. With the transformations, more and more people become servants of the state, whose civil rights are also restricted. It is a matter of judgment whether this will be compensated with some increase in salary. In our view, they will also face the fact that this is not the case. Even in the field of defence and law enforcement, the former professional programmes of the MSZP considered it appropriate to establish professional positions only for those tasks where the nature of the task requires strict hierarchy of command control. And let me add here that we continue to have this programme, and we keep it very seriously and claim that it is also important to be clear who belongs to such a professional relationship and who should be in such an addictive relationship, because these professionals, however, in both the defence and internal affairs, deserve not to live in one country in Europe, and indeed in one country in the Western world where there is no service pension system, and where they call something a career model or career, which, by the way, has not been closed to this day, which has been taken away by a feather stroke, and I would stress once again, which, apart from Hungary, is neither in Central Europe nor in Western Europe, nor even in the notorious capitalist United States. In the light of the above, it may be important to see how this militarisation is reflected in laws that transform government administration and government civil status, because if, as a continuation of the last eight years, the militarisation of public administration is indeed a demonstrably growing trend, then everyone must really think about it, because after a while, policemen who do not serve customers but regulate persons subject to police procedures will be transformed by the entire administration. Dear Secretary of State, Specifically, the Rainbow. Some very specific comments on the law. Every civil servant and government official working in law enforcement bodies will be transformed by the proposal. So as we know, the fate of 12,000 people, 12,000 families, will change from February 1st. However, it doesn't matter what happens to who here. Anyone who has at least a diploma will have a law enforcement administrative service from February 1 who does not have one will work under the Labour Code, if we understand the proposal correctly. Among the civil servants, Mr. Secretary, what proportion are these, you know? So how many people will be who, as a public servant, have spent 10-20-30 years in public administration, serving any of the police's organs, and from February 1st, tell him that dear Béla, dear Aunt Margaret, that's it? Even though the years were gathered, despite all the benefits of being a public servant, any right in terms of freedom was in vain, the Code of Labour from 1 February, that was it, start over. I'd like to ask you, Secretary of State, do you know how many of these people are going to be, and how many people are affected in this way? In the new legal relationship, almost all professional restrictions will be granted to workers: they will be obliged to report access and residence; they will be able to be recalled; they will have to tolerate restrictions on their freedom of opinion; they will be restricted to the exercise of public office; conflicts of interest; checks on life without impeccability, which we know is also controlled by quasi-secret service methods; checks on their work by technical means, which means, in particular, surveillance of them during their work by means of secret service. Let's just stop for a second. For example, we are talking about the ladies in the kitchen, Mr. Secretary of State, so the civil servants who serve the police are a specific category. Of course, it will be very important to live an impeccable life, and in the course of the work, to observe with secret service tools the well-known spy is often world-famous, and I do not know what kind of kitchen ladies they are. In many cases, changes to appointment do not require the employee's consent. To establish a standard, establish training, training and examination obligations, change of job, function by change, change of place of work within the territory of the municipality. Temporary redeployment and redeployment rules are far above the worker's expected burden. In the vast majority of these places, they can be almost like professional workers without the employee's consent, like sending them to a job rental company, left and right. The head of the law enforcement body determines the classification of the posts, and the head of the law enforcement body determines the acceptable qualifications. How do you imagine that, Mr. Secretary? One law enforcement agency, one police agency, will have a degree in the same job position, and the other will have a different degree? In one place, one person will receive a salary for the same job or similar work, and the other one will receive a salary for A+2? So how can it be that they give the head of the law enforcement body such a level of labour rights, which will obviously even result if we understand it correctly, Mr State Secretary, not only in a ministerial decree, but not in a government decree or in the law itself, under what conditions, who with what degree, who can earn in that law enforcement body, but in the discretion of the head of the law enforcement body? And let's hope that on the bulletin board, you can at least put out that anyone who goes into the building knows what they have to stick to. We think it's ridiculous. In the rule of law, it wouldn't happen. Drivers must pass the law enforcement exam, but the practice of law enforcement can be waived. It's very hard to get rid of the leaders. This, let's say, is not as new as the amendments to the law in recent years that can be replaced without justification. But what's really rude is that you only have to offer another job if you have one. If you do not accept the job offered, you will not be acquitted, but the refusal should be regarded as a waiver, so there will be neither a severance pay nor an exemption period. If they're gonna drop someone off, they're literally gonna kill someone inside an organization, it's gonna take about two minutes for any leader. If we are talking about the worker's vulnerability, I think we should stop talking about it. Freedom. We know very well here that there may be a substantial reduction in people's lives. They'll confront him after they change their relationship. Mostly a very big question, as I said, how will workers who come under the Labour Code, along with Mr Kósa's fine law, proceed. The salary system may be better, although we can only see a wage weight; what this will mean for one person in particular, we do not know. [[20.40]] They should be subject to the rules of disciplinary and compensation liability. At the end of this, please allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to remove a bill that you have just tabled and adopted, since in 2012 you, Fidesz, took out the rules on disciplinary liability from the Kjt. with the following justification. According to practical experience, it is over-regulated, necessarily bureaucratic, inflexible or significantly unjustified to maintain the regulation on the disciplinary liability of civil servants, and therefore the law abolishes the legal institution. Instead, the employer may use an exceptional exemption which already exists if the public servant is in serious breach of his or her essential obligation arising from the civil service relationship, either intentionally or with gross negligence. It is interesting that you now see your justification for a few years ago in a different way, and what you have admitted is that a completely unnecessary, bureaucratic and difficult rule is now being brought back. Overall, I can say once again that these laws point in the same direction. There is one goal: to implement the will of the Prime Minister, the government and ministers at all costs, without questioning. This will be the fate of every Hungarian public servant, government official, Riasz., Haj., we can call the poor people whatever. It doesn't guarantee people's rights, it will limit them from any point of view. The function of the Hungarian administration and administration is not only to be a means of implementing central political power, such as before 90, but, unfortunately, we could say a few more periods of blood stormy times, when the government started in this direction in Hungary, the government of the time, in addition to its function of possibly dealing with people's problems, and perhaps also of delivering the opinion of the profession to the government, it will certainly not be possible to do so with these laws. Of course, we do not support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-28-202	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2018-11-28-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Harangozó has already presented with extensive detail the main principles and practical problems relating to the main provisions of the bill, so allow me, on the part of the Democratic Coalition, to give a very brief indication of our position on this bill. I would like to point out that it is a very specific solution, and this is not the first bill today, or this week in particular, when the government brings forward those legislative proposals in its own name or in the skin of one of the Members, in which it rewrites rules that fundamentally determine the lives of very important social groups. We're talking about law enforcement. Yesterday about employees and defense workers, this afternoon about government officials. In all cases, the experience is that, let alone there was no meaningful discussion on these proposals, but they did not even listen to the views of the advocates of interest, the trade unions. I must say, Mr Secretary, that this is a serious problem. This is not only a problem, of course, it is also important, because the opinion of these people, their interest, cannot be incorporated into this bill, but also because this procedure causes them to enter into situations where there are unviable, practically impossible regulations, or regulations that are essentially harmful to the lives of those concerned, not only in terms of the quality of service, the quality of the state's activities, because they impose unnecessary formal obligations on workers that do not make sense, which do not improve the quality of work, but are also well suited for the political bosses you put on their backs to dominate them. In the longer term, citizens will be paying for this, as we see today that there is not always a level playing field in the various areas of public services, and I have included law enforcement, which is obviously going to be even more so, and that customers will be even less likely to be able to expect a fair trial and to meet patient administrators. This bill is, in our view, simply unnecessary in its particular nature. It creates a new relationship for which there is no reason, otherwise, a logical, reasonable reason, neither in the proposal itself nor in the justification. Because today there is a perfectly clear, clear formula. Some have either a special task that requires a quasi-military discipline, a special right, a specific limitation of individual freedoms, justified and proportionate; and there are also a number of law enforcement organisations who do exactly the kind of admin work or even a service activity, as represented by a representative of a sharp mind that does not require any special status at all, because the fact that a law enforcement officer is sitting in the building of a police station and not sitting in the building of a local government or a government office, frankly, does not make a substantial difference in his work. And from this point on, you create a legal status, and if we're benevolent, it's a kind of power mania, so that we can have a special special one, if the government has a separate government official, the government has a government official, then even the law enforcement area should have a special, essentially civil servant. This is a very bad direction, Mr. Secretary of State, because it cuts the entire public service even more, creates even more individual orbits, creates individual situations that need to be set up and improved separately. This kind of equality will not fit all law enforcement and civil servants' law enforcement officials in the same way as the solutions we've had so far. Instead of inventing a well-functioning public service system, they are again trying to hide some of the public service players in separate small boxes. That doesn't make much sense. It has been discussed in detail by Mr Bellozó and before him, but I will not repeat it, but I will only confirm it. Moreover, there is a restriction in this law in the case of these law enforcement officials or officials which is neither proportionate nor justified. There is no justification for these restrictions. Their activities are usually not something that would require this degree of limitation of personality rights. Again, I have to say that you are either overshooting the goal, or that is your goal, that you are once again one, not even police, of the entire police administration because I would not want to go into historical aspects here, but we know that this kind of militaryly organised police organization is itself a consequence of the communist period and partly of the authoritarian period that preceded it, not even in a manner consistent with Hungarian law enforcement traditions, to force again on the police and not only on the police, because that is the case, but also to force it on other areas of the police, on the non-professional stock, which is not good for those who are involved in it, and is not good for those who are somehow involved with this organisation. For those of you who are good at this, you are alone, because you can make another civil servant group vulnerable, subordinate, and make it carry out in military order your otherwise not particularly good ideas. Finally, I must say that we support one thing in this proposal, that they increase the wage masses. That's right. But they give this to you, based on the levels of service that are already in existence and earned, as a substitute, let's say, this money, if you think this job deserves it! Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-28-204	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó in two minutes.
u2018-11-28-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to add one more. The last words of my fellow harvester reminded me that there was still a lot to talk about about the bill, but I did not highlight one important point. [[20.50]] Looks like a serious wage increase. Once again, I think it will look quite different on the individual level. However, in this situation, it cannot be ignored that civil servants, in this case at the Ministry of the Interior, as I said, received more than 11,000 people last raises in 2008. Their payroll has been last raised since 2008 during the socialist government at that time. Either way, it's ten years. While, by the way, wage-setting has started in some way in the last few years for the same organisations, whether working for professionals or others or in any area of the public administration, this public servant population can be regarded as Fidesz orphans in the last eight years. It was felt, it was visible that they were not respected and kept at the level where they should be. You could see in their wages, you could feel that sooner or later this relationship would be terminated. But again, before anyone here starts a bonfire and beats their breasts about what a good wage increase it will be for these people, you have not raised a single forint on your salary during eight years of government, and you can only make a little more money because you have to pay them the guaranteed minimum wage, while you wouldn't have made a lot of it out of the pay table. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-28-206	Thank you very much. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to what has been said.
u2018-11-28-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to state, above all, that the preparation of the law was also carried out by the Internal Affairs Stakeholder Council, the Police Sectoral Stakeholder Council, the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum and the National Civil Service Stakeholder Council, and some of their opinions were incorporated into the law. I must also add, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a regulation here, a regulation that, indeed, as has been said, fits into more than ten thousand employment lines, which have been filled by some 12,000 people, and not certain occupations. As a result, in many respects it will be a regulatory framework, but in many respects this regulatory framework will be much more specific than before. In the speeches, it has also emerged that the nature of the regulatory framework is missing on the one hand and that there is a problem with the presence or existence of the regulatory framework on the other. Thus, for example, the question of how job conditions, the conditions for filling the job, and the remuneration are carried out. This is a law which provides for the employment arm for 12,000 people, but at the same time requires a different set of rules, e.g. according to qualification or employment conditions, for police, prison or disaster management in this sector. By the way, so far, this has not been harmonised in the legislation. So, on the one hand, there is a standardisation of internal affairs, on the other hand, the fragmentation of professions takes place, but within professions standardisation takes place, and, for example, it cannot occur that employees can work at different, say, disaster control offices or fire brigades in the same job, in the same position, with different hires or, where appropriate, other qualifications. At the moment, however, we have the opportunity to do so, so this regulation will be abolished. With regard to compensation rules: the liability for damages will not be more stringent than otherwise laid down in the Labour Code. And indeed, there are about 1660 employees with secondary education at the moment, who, as otherwise stated in the law and in the explanatory memorandum, can continue to carry on the payment values they have already been employed with. Changes in working time are not applicable. It is not the case that there is a substantial change in working time, mandatory working time or working time rules compared to so far. Otherwise, it is factual that secondments are more stringent or create a different situation than before. At the same time, if we look at the detailed rules of this, this will take into account the interests of workers and the worker's life situation, and its managers can take it into account. There is no physical health check in the legislation. There has already been a medical fitness test, and the same medical fitness test will continue to be met by the staff employed here. With regard to observation: on the one hand, I have to say again that this is a regulatory framework; it is obviously not necessary to observe in every job. And I think it is also worth noting that, while there are so many people here talking or talking about civil servants, and there is a lack of uniform civil servant relations, that this is going away, I think it is not possible to have such a big debate that the employment of public workers employed by law enforcement agencies is much closer to, say, prison law enforcement workers, the armed and police officers, and I could refer to their employment as a public employee, such as a museologist or a librarian. And while it is true that it does not provide armed service, where appropriate, but, for example, it works in the personnel work area, in the IT work area, with exactly the same sensitive data that requires some of them to be regulated in a manner similar to that of the armed, for example, how they may appear on social media. Obviously, this is not interesting for all employees, but, let's say, for employees who work with secret materials, who deal with secret cases, these conditions may be acceptable and necessary. The same is true of their suggestion of observation, by the way. It's not that these people are wanted by secret service. On the one hand, the law regulates how long and for what purpose it is possible to observe, and this must also be communicated to the worker and how this can be used and that this type of data must be deleted within 30 days. So, overall, the points that you have said are missing, on the one hand, that it is not uniform and, on the other hand, that there is a problem that this is a single regulation, which, by the way, will obviously, in detail, be subject to further regulation by the commanders in the sectors, in accordance with the possibilities. Overall, I believe that the bill provides an appropriate framework for establishing a basis for raising salaries for non-armed bodies in the field of law enforcement and for working with workers in armed bodies under similar employment conditions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-28-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. This time there will be a speech. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz checked in with the title "The Fate of Somogyi Monuments." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-28-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that one of the parliamentary representatives of Somogy County and the Development Commissioner of Somogy County, Attila Móring József, will also be listening to my speech after the agenda, and I hope that you will agree with what I have said and will lobby even more effectively in the future in order to protect our monuments in Somogy. [[21.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Our ancestors have left us not only a beautiful country, but also many tangible monuments, built heritage, wonderful castles, castles and palaces. However, our built cultural heritage and our monuments are clearly in danger. The Science Department for the Conservation of Heritage has been liquidated and nearly 40 experts from the competent State Secretariat have been resigned. The Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre ended on 31 December 2016 with succession, and its tasks were partly carried out by Budavári Property Development and Operations Nonprofit Kft. He took over. The launch of the national castle programme and national fortress programme with EU money was also a success. Why do I say that? It is worth looking at the map on the website of the program to see which settlements are affected. The picture is extremely graphic. The South Transdanubia is completely eliminated, the only exception is the castle of Szigetvár. Contrary to North Transdanubia, the county Fejér is especially the beneficiary of the programme. Around Székesfehérvár, almost as many castles and castles are renovated as the whole country. It is also shocking that our built heritage in Somogy County has been left out of the program one by one. Somogyar has an invaluable monument, most of which will thus become invincible. I would like to give an example of the 18th. Somogysárdi Somssich Castle was built in the middle of the century, which was one of the centers of Hungarian horse breeding. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. After World War II, he became a state stud, which quickly gained European fame. Later, the training of horses of the police and the National Horseman's Unit of the Republic of Hungary also took place here. With the closure and liquidation of the herd in 2007, several decades of horse-breeding have been destroyed, as it were, after centuries, and 70 families in Somogysárd have lost their livelihood. State lands belonging to the castle have been sold since then, and the property, although protected by monuments, cannot be visited. And one of the most beautiful castles in Somogy County deserves to be a sight for the region again. Instead, in recent years, steps have been taken that no one can explain in their senses. We do not understand the reason for selling the farmland belonging to the castle. We don't know why the government left this particularly valuable manor and stud to its fate. We do not know what the fate of the once beautiful buildings will be, nor do we know on what grounds it was not included in the national castle program. However, the Somsich Castle is not the only example of what not to do with our inherited monuments. The Zichy Castle in Polishtót is in a similar state of decay. Unfortunately, this castle is an excellent example of real estate speculation, which has helped them get a lot of money out of the building. Its current use is unworthy, essentially for the storage of vegetables produced in public employment. There are promises to renovate the ruined building, but in the national castle program, who knows why, this castle didn't make it. The two-place Hunyady castle, which has been empty since 2006, is also a very depressing sight. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Most of the building in the century burned down, and over the past ten years it has become almost a mess. This property was also not included in the national castle program, although it is only five kilometers from Lake Balaton, so it has tourist value. We see how important it is for the government to strengthen the sense of belonging through sport. We see the amazing amount of money for the construction and development of football stadiums. A fraction of these amounts would be enough to save our continuously deteriorating cultural heritage and to give the Hungarian countryside a chance to develop. I ask the government to pay due attention and financial resources to the monuments and cultural heritage of Somogy. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-28-210	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
