u2018-02-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I welcome you all with love. The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr István Ikotity will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, Following the line of the, we need a change in Hungary! Reality behind propaganda, or save the future of general health care and local government, secure livelihoods for municipal workers! The political debate, which was initiated by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/1979. has been received by my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask Mr István Ikotity to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go, notary.
u2018-02-21-1	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made in a 40-minute period. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-02-21-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2018-02-21-3	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the MSZP Group has initiated a doubling of its timeframe, so that the time frame is divided into 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 90 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2018-02-21-4	Thank you very much, Mr Notary, ladies and gentlemen. First, the Government will launch a debate, which will be presented by three speakers, three State Secretarys, in a total time frame of 40 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-02-21-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We can see that there are only two Members of the entire opposition tripartite group present at this debate. It was considered important to discuss this at the moment after the last meeting on a political debate day, but we do not yet see that too many people have come here by the start of the debate, except for some of the Members who are coming in. If there had been real intentions to lead opposition parties to improve the health situation, then, obviously, this day of debate would not have been called for the day after the last parliamentary day of the two-four-year session, but would have come up with a bill to resolve the problems which were described here in the applicant, in particular, in relation to improving the situation of general practitioners, on one of the first parliamentary days of the eight years. But they didn't, because they didn't bother to draft a bill, maybe settle it with the Medical Chamber, settle it with the Chamber of Professionals, negotiate it with health unions or sick organizations. Of course, during the eight years they had time to meet with Grey Wolfs, to speak of allahs or Islam, to talk about humanity's last hope, but to think about or negotiate a bill for any basic supply, there was no time and opportunity for opposition parties to do so. So the fact that we are holding this debate day today is just a desperate attempt by the opposition to build a final stage for itself during the campaign period, to give itself one last opportunity to throw everything that the government wants to throw at its eyes in a few hours' time, whether it is real or not, to say it right now, and to think that it might bring some kind of advantage in the election campaign that is already under way, in the elections that take place in about seven weeks' time. But we can say that even the worst hospital and the worst general medical practice in Hungary are in better shape than the Hungarian opposition parties, as we can see that, turning to the election, they are struggling with internal problems, positions, or identity crises. It can be seen, therefore, that this is a desperate attempt by the opposition, but here we are, we will answer all their points. We have seen that the Hungarian Socialist Party has already made a proposal for overcrowding in the general medical offices, which has been put into legal form and accepted here in Parliament. The aim was not, say, to improve the quality of care in more practices than in our Community practice, not to radically increase the fees that GPs would receive in funding, but to choose a tool that did not want to help or encourage doctors' work, but rather to thin the visits of patients. This was called a visitation fee, which was paid for by all Hungarian patients, precisely in order to get fewer patients to show up at the GP, fewer patients to visit the GP less often, so that they will be able to reduce overcrowding in the GPs somewhat. It's a method, but I don't think it's morally acceptable. But it is talkative that paying health is today the only calling word that has been able to trumpet all opposition parties together, since medium, smaller and unobserved opposition parties have both signed a joint declaration, the very important point of which is the need to work out the details of paid health. [[9.10]] This was not invented by the parties themselves, because this proposal was not drafted by the parties, but by one of the fathers of the visitation fee, it was drafted by the opposition parties, and all opposition parties, Parliaments and non-plenary parties were united, signed this joint petition on paid health care. After all, we have known for a very long time the kind of method that the SZDSZ conducted in the first place, but now all the opposition parties have taken over this liberal thought process, that the more we need to undermine the reputation and reputation of certain sectors with the magnified real and unrealityful false news. If we can prove it, I mean, opposition parties can prove to the electorate that this is completely unsustainable and that the state is unable to carry these areas well, and that the conditions are bad in the care system, then this is an excellent preparation for privatisation. That's what's going on right now. As many people as possible want to prove that the quality of care is not good, so that they can prepare the privatisation of one part or another. That's what the opposition's up to. In short, this could also be the health programme of all opposition parties, which has their own signature. A few months ago, everyone can read it: privatize as much of the health care as possible and make as much as possible to pay, precisely so that the business approach can appear in health care. Business is no stranger to the opposition in terms of health. As I said, the Socialist Party in privatisation is a multi-insurance model, privateisation, we can know these various socialist keywords from before 2010, then they have all tried them. We also know that Jobbik's number one health politician was involved in the export of doctors. He knows what it means to live well in health care, and of course, the situation of patients can change radically. I do not think it is impossible that a fellow Member who had previously taken doctors abroad will speak today and say that we need more doctors here in Hungary. Paid and privatised, therefore, are two lines of the opposition in the health sector. However, I can tell you that we are now spending much more on health than in 2010 in the year of the last budget adopted by opposition parties, since today the budget contains HUF 546 billion more for health purposes than it contained in 2010. It is natural that this amount should be further increased, and the government is also trying to do so, as in recent years we have spent HUF 500 billion on renovating hospitals and clinics both from Hungarian and EU sources. That's how we were able to renovate 77 hospitals, 54 clinics. From this we were able to renew 104 rescue stations, and we were able to build 30 new rescue stations, which now managed to upgrade more than half of the rescue stations. But obviously there are additional tasks to modernise the second half of the rescue stations, besides the 500 ambulances that have been replaced so far, additional ambulances will be provided, and a good part of which will already be included in the Budapest Healthy Program, as it will be available for HUF 700 billion. The difference between previous health developments and these is that while the former sources of EU and domestic resources were fully Hungarian, this is entirely from Hungarian resources, since that will be 700 billion forints, all from the Hungarian budget, not from EU funds. It also shows that Hungary is growing stronger and that stronger Hungary is better able to improve its health. Of course, we are aware that there is a great deal of improvement in the healthcare system, but also a blind person who says that there has been no tangible, visible progress in the last eight years, either in the 77 rural hospitals mentioned above or in the area of wage increases, since between 2012 and 2019 we have doubled and doubled the wages of all health professionals, as this multi-annual programme will end next year. In two years last year and the year before last, we raised doctors' salaries by HUF 207 thousand, which was not the case in Hungary in order to increase the salary of doctors in health care in such a short period of time. We would, of course, like to continue this. We are the party that has proven that it can continue. A lot of people can promise, but the Fidesz-KDNP has been able to raise health care to act and pay. The MSZP was able to prove that it has the capacity to reduce wages in health care today, since a month's wage was taken from all nurses and doctors when the IMF demanded it. If I can turn to the circle in the title of today's debate, GPs, my fellow Members, we have launched a programme in recent years in order to increase the funding of GP practices to a noticeable extent. We are all aware of this, and perhaps there would not be any debate between either party, that if the basic care is in very good condition, then obviously there are fewer problems of professional care and inpatient care, as much disease can be prevented. It would be possible to hold meaningful debates, but not less than 50 days before the elections, I think, within a parliamentary debate day, but otherwise, what are the tasks, funding items, which can be included in the basic care system, we can better protect the health of Hungarian people, better help them to increase the number of years spent in health and better avoid diseases. This is a real debate, I just don't think we're gonna be able to do it in a campaign period. That is why it is important to strengthen the provision of general health care, and therefore it is important that this year, last year, before last year and every year before that, the budget includes an extra-plus ten billion dollars in order to increase the fee of each domestic GP practice by 130 thousand HUF per year. This means that in this four-year period it has increased and increased by four times 130 thousand forints, by 520,000 forints, because the exact definition of its time is still to come, but the budget is covered. Overall, in this government cycle, the monthly income of every Hungarian general medical practice increased by HUF 520,000. The general physician himself decides that this HUF 520,000, which is HUF 6 million 240 thousand per year, is spent on exactly what, whether it is to raise the wages of his employees or to improve the maintenance of his office, to purchase instruments or to increase his income. Obviously, all of our goals, since if doctors' wages were increased by HUF 207 thousand in hospitals, it is important that there is at least a similar increase in income in the general medical practice, because otherwise the general doctors would go to the hospital to heal if, say, at the age of 50 they could earn more money there. It is important that the profitability of GP practice is increased at least as much. That's why this month plus 520,000 forints was important. I also think that if you look at the history of Hungarian medicine and health policy, you will not find much of a time when there was a higher rate than a monthly increase of HUF 520,000 in general medical practices. We'd like to continue this. The policy of opposition parties would clearly jeopardise the ability of general practitioners to preserve this. [[9.20]] It is also important that, on the one hand, we have launched programmes and residency programmes for young doctors to fill the general medical practices, which have led to a noticeable reduction in the number of doctors travelling abroad. This number was the highest sometime around 2010-11, it was nearly a thousand at the time, but more than nine hundred for doctors of Hungarian citizens who asked for their first permission to work abroad. Today it is less than 400, and we have been able to restrain it noticeably. This included spending more than HUF 8 billion on the residency support program for over nine hundred doctors. They have therefore undertaken to carry out healing activities in Hungary for the extra residency grant. It is also important that both the residency and the practice competitions have been able to fill the general medical practices in a hundred order. These are practices that have been empty for a very, very long time. How these practices can be filled is a huge problem throughout Europe. The need for more medical jobs than the number of doctors in the country is not a Hungarian problem, not a Central European problem, but a European task. According to the Commission's calculations, by 2020, there will be 1 million unfilled medical posts in the European Union. All countries, therefore, face the need to fill a larger number of medical posts within the European Union. Hungary has tried to recognise this problem as soon as possible because of its increased difficulty due to the brain drain, and to start the establishment and practice competitions, precisely so that we can fill the long-lost GPs. You know it, but I will tell you briefly: the essence of the practice contests is that for the purchase of the right to practice, a general practitioner who has been wanting to work in a long, unfilled practice for at least a year can receive a grant of HUF 4 million. And with the settlement application, a general doctor who has taken up such a long-standing GP practice will receive a maximum of HUF 20 million in non-refundable funding, and will then use this HUF 20 million to do what he considers useful and important. If you want, you can buy a house, buy a car, if you want, renovate the clinic, use it for whatever purpose. The government will give this HUF 20 million as a souvenir to use it for whatever is necessary for establishment. It is important for the Hungarian state to be able to provide the local general practitioner for everyone, so it will also use this support. The programme intervenes in a very important area, in a very critical area, because a problem that has existed for a generation had to be cured. As I said, this is not only a problem in Hungary, but in many other countries, the issue of vacant medical positions is a big problem, but it seems that this method works, as we were able to support the purchase of 167 practice rights and the establishment of 142 doctors in 2015-2017. This means that if it hadn't been for this program launched by Fidesz-KDNP, 500,000 fewer people today would have their own GP in their own GP area. We've managed to supply 500,000 people. We can see that the gynaecological chorus continues to grow old, so we need to keep an eye on this area, but we have found a way to reduce this type of problem, and it seems to be a cure for the problem of an ageing gynaecological chorus. But not only was this practice able to provide dental care for 500,000 people, but it was also possible to provide dental care for 135,000 people, with a total of 3.9 billion forints. That is, therefore, what I can tell you and Parliament about GP practices on a narrower scale today. I would say very briefly that the OECD has recently published a comparison of health costs and health budgets. In this he said that before 2010, there was only one country out of the 34 most advanced countries, in which the value of health expenditure decreased, and this was Hungary, before 2010. But when he looked at the post-2010 period, he found only five out of the 34 countries with a higher share of healthcare expenditure than in Hungary. There was a big shortage, a lot to catch up on. So we have something to make up for, and we have not yet reached the level and the average that we want to achieve, but finally Hungary has been able to achieve better in this respect, it has finally been able to spend more on health care, especially on wages, because the largest part has gone to wage increases, but the OECD has also confirmed that Hungarian budget surpluses now have an apparent result in budgetary comparisons as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only asking the opposition, although it is likely to try, as I said, to seize this opportunity as the last time in a series of parliamentary sittings before the elections, and it will tell us everything, but do not try to come up here repeatedly with a disproved false rumor, because the news that we have repeatedly denied and you have often said here that cheaper medicines should always be used, we have denied that we do not spend on treating cancer for people over 75, we have denied that there are two positive reports that every hospital should report on itself weekly. We also denied these, as did the transfer of patients from one hospital to another with an open heart. And I can tell you a number of other false news that we have repeatedly denied, yet here in Parliament you have repeated several times. Please, although I'm not sure there's a reason for me to hope that you won't try to make political profit here by making such false news loudly. I believe that the guarantee that resources will continue to grow in health care is Fidesz-KDNP, because the economic measures for additional resources, none of which were supported by any opposition party, have created the basis for it. At the time, they said they were wrong decisions. They weren't brave enough to stand up for any salary increase or any other decision. But Fidesz-KDNP could do that. Everyone can see if you can support the visit fee MSZP, the doctor-exporter Jobbik, or the health pay-lifting Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue the expo, and I will give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-21-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian municipal system has appeared countless times in the storm of Hungarian politics and party politics, and countless statements have been made from the past 28 years. In view of all of this, I can say that the Hungarian municipal system has been one of the most successful institutions of the change of regime, since the change of regime, the Hungarian municipal system is one of the strongest areas of local policy in the settlements, and we can also say that local politics, local politicians, mayors and representatives have met the inhabitants of the settlements every day, so they have the greatest appreciation and direct recognition of the inhabitants of the settlement. Of course, the Hungarian municipal system cannot be separated and is not a separate element in the sea of Hungarian life, the economy. The operation of the Hungarian municipal system has always felt, sometimes the Hungarian municipal system has been affected by the state of the Hungarian economy. After the initial one or two years in 1990, the support of the local government system, the normatives, and the determination of the tasks were constantly in a forced direction, more and more tasks, and increasing tasks with the local governments, with the unchanged normative and unchanged financial support. In fact, in the period 1996 the state privatised and sold the local government's assets, the energy assets that served the municipalities, and did not provide the municipalities with the share they deserved. This was returned to the settlements by the Orbán government at the turn of the millennium. And it is well remembered that around the millennium was the period when the municipalities were able to make an enormous number of improvements in the settlements from their own resources, and precisely from the source that they could fairly receive and use from the utility privatisation. A lot of services that improved the daily lives of people living in settlements, improved living conditions and the living standards of the local community could have been launched. [[9.30]] However, after 2002, especially after 2004, the growing economic problems in the country and the bad economic policy have led to increased and more difficult funding for municipalities. According to the 2009 State Audit Office of Hungary, between 2004 and 2009, the State withdrew more than HUF 2000 billion of aid and carried out an additional task on the municipalities, which led the municipalities first to strike a balance by expending their own assets, selling municipal assets, and later by borrowing local estates. First and foremost, for development tasks, for the creation of funding for applications, the European Union has started to create its own funds. However, after a while, a number of settlements, especially those in which a large part of the public services were provided by the municipalities, were forced to take out loans. The situation with the county authorities became particularly difficult after 2009, since the majority of the government at the time decided to take the county authorities' share of the levy from the county authorities until then. This, however, simply resulted in the fact that the monthly financing of county municipalities did not cover the salaries of educational and social institutions in the institutional system of county municipalities. Thus, the county authorities were particularly pressed and needed to sell or borrow their properties. After 2010, it was apparent that the mechanism, the process that passed on to the municipalities the consequences of the state's poor economic policy, which passed on to the municipalities the tasks to be carried out, but which do not have the resources to do so, could not continue. Therefore, we had to decide to return the freedom of decision to the municipalities, return the freedom of self-government, and take over the loans in several steps by the Hungarian government. First, in the case of settlements not exceeding 5,000 people, the state took over the loans from the municipalities, and then finally in full, about HUF 1369 billion. It is very important to note that, although there were many demands and many opinions expressed in the credit transfer, the government did not get involved in driving municipalities into some sort of ex post accounting, even for 10-15 years. The government has undertaken to take over the debts of all municipalities. In the case of some, perhaps a dozen municipalities, when it was out of the question that loans were invested in business developments that, where appropriate, had been repaid several times, it examined whether it would take over the loans. However, regardless of party status and settlement size, the loans were taken over by the government and taken over by the budget. At the same time, we also thought that a number of settlements, due to their lucky situation, did not need to take out loans, but they failed to develop because they could have developed from loans. In fact, let's face it, in a number of cases, the town had such a potential that it could not have received credit, since it did not have any real estate assets that credit institutions would have found appropriate. In a four-year, finally three-year reduction programme, these municipalities received the aid promised in advance, HUF 40 billion. Of these 40 billion forints, they could make up for a significant part of all the underdue or missed developments they had left instead of borrowing. So, overall, I think that the freedom of the municipalities with the loan transfer was returned by the government. I would refer here to the period 2000 when local governments received the share of the privatisation of the gas utility assets, and here the loan transfer took place. The two Orbán governments provided local governments with resources that they had not previously experienced. At the same time, it has also become clear that the processes are not sustainable. It cannot be held that a settlement does not receive the necessary resources for the provision of the task, and the state also had to consider what tasks it would be better to organise if it was centrally resolved. Compared to the two, the new Mötv. changed the division of tasks, where two major groups of basic municipal tasks, education, primary and secondary education, as well as specialist care, more specifically hospital care, were transferred to state tasks, and the other municipal tasks remained largely with the municipalities. In the case of municipalities, with the exception of 141 municipalities, the source that originally served the maintenance of public education institutions, schools and secondary schools remained in place. So when we talked for decades about the fact that the municipality had to add 30-40 percent to the state normative of a primary school education, or possibly 70 percent, depending on the size of a settlement and school, this cover did not have to be handed over by the state by taking over school education from the municipalities. This remains there, which is still available as a freely used source in the municipalities. Many tasks have been missed or a number of tasks have been removed from local authorities that have carried out regional centres, such as a document office. However, these are essentially not municipal tasks, but not a notary task. This package of tasks concerned only larger municipalities with a document office. By the way, I think it is wrong to confuse the tasks of the municipal system with these tasks. After all, the fact that an ID card or a passport or an address card is issued in a local office is absolutely not part of the municipal task package. In fact, in the past, while it was the responsibility of municipal offices with a document office, 10-17 percent, depending on the type of document, the local government also financed the costs of public document publishing. Of course, this cost remains today in the settlements. I believe that the correction of the system of tasks has, on the one hand, created a clearer picture, that the tasks to be carried out by the state and the municipality are well separated and left resources in the municipalities. After all, as I said, with the exception of some 140 municipalities, there is no need to transfer funds after the tasks transferred. Thus, it can be said that the situation of the municipalities has stabilised with the transfer of credit and the transformation of tasks. This is facilitated by the task funding, the task financing system, which allocates the necessary resources to the given task. Today, the Triple Unit has achieved that the municipal system has closed the economic years in a positive way, not negatively since the third year of 2013 or since 2013. It can be said that the operation is ensured by the stability of municipal budgets, both with the resources provided by the task funding and, where appropriate, with the resources created locally and, where appropriate, by the set-off. For municipalities where there is a particular disadvantage, an additional mechanism is used to ensure the resources needed to operate each year by means of a tender. We can say that, by the way, a little less people are applying for this proposal every year and they are applying for lower amounts. So, overall, the system is working well. In order to complete the task funding in full, in order to be able to tell you in a truly differentiated way how much the task costs, say, in the small villages of Zala or in the capital area, requires a very good and age-appropriate IT network and IT unit. This has also been built. With the help of the ASP system, we will ensure that municipalities can always work in the state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art IT system. At the same time, we are creating a database, a repository that the municipalities can use, the government can use, and in reality they can assess their own situation compared to settlements in other parts of the country. [[9.40]] And when the budgetary debate takes place, when this system is launched, then the actual and daily figures of the budget debate can be used either by local government associations, local governments or government to argue so that the appropriate support can be given to the municipalities. And I think it's very important that the Mötv. By adopting the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, I believe that for many years and decades, it has decided that the Hungarian municipal system is based on the fact that representatives of local governments and mayors represent the interests of local communities in all settlements, and they are the ones who can create the concept necessary for the basic services of the local community and for the development and manage the resources necessary for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The expozet will be continued by State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When we received today's statement of opposition debate, it was a little difficult to figure out exactly what they wanted to talk about, and our feeling is that, at the end of the cycle, every curse could be cast on the government's head. After all, it's a campaign. On municipal matters and on the issue of general medical services, the Secretary of State Rétvári and Pogácsás have already spoken about, and I would therefore like to say a few words on the issues which were also mentioned in their submissions. The issue of livelihoods and wages is mentioned in various approaches. I would like to inform you that wages are constantly increasing in Hungary, although this does not mean that we have already reached the desired level. Not yet. However, it is true that the average wage is nearly 40 percent higher than in 2010, while the minimum wage has increased by 88 percent and the minimum wage is doubling. Approaching this issue from another point of view: wages have been rising in Hungary for 59 months. Otherwise, the decision to raise minimum wages did not come from nothing. This is part of a comprehensive agreement between employers, workers and the government. I stress this specifically because we believe that in all cases the negotiated road will bring the desired results in individual sectors, including in the local government sector. The government is open to proposals, but first and foremost the representatives of local governments and local governments must come to a conclusion. In the public sector, wage increases are already taking place in several sectors. In his early days, the teacher's career model is an average 50 percent increase. In higher education, there is a 27 percent increase for teachers and researchers. Law enforcement workers also receive 50 percent more on average between 2016-18. There was a raise due this January, too. As far as employees of public companies are concerned, this is a sector where there were quite a lot of job cuts before 2010. In January today, however, Posta, MÁV, regional transport companies and water utility companies, among others, received an increase. In July 2016, people working in district offices received an increase in county government offices last January. In parallel, wage increases are also taking place in the market sector, which are otherwise supported by tax reductions by the government. In 2017, employers' taxes decreased by 5 percentage points and by an additional 2.5 percentage points this year, while corporate tax decreased to 9 percent. The importance of these is to open the door to further wage increases. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In their submission initiating the debate day, they refer to negative trends in poverty. This does not stand the test of reality. If you look at Eurostat data, you will see that the percentage of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 730,000 since 2012, whereas in the year of the last left-wing government, half a million Hungarians have applied for aid. At your time, honourable left-wing representatives, it was much more worth living on welfare instead of work. This trend, a positive trend I was talking about, is not due to luck, but, above all, to the fact that there have never been as many people working in Hungary as they are now. Unemployment is around 4 per cent, while during the period of the initiating MSZP it was 12 per cent. By the way, the unemployment rate doubled during that period. Youth unemployment has also fallen significantly in recent years. Moreover, the government has helped and assisted those who live in more modest financial conditions by means of several measures. These include reducing energy prices, and, to tell you the truth, I find it a little strange that the MSZP has recently been hitting accountable voices on energy prices, which have increased the price of gas and electricity dozens of times. And by the way, it would have simply given over the right to set prices to the European Union, Brussels. Not to mention, by privatizing utility companies, he released hundreds of billions of dollars of profits from the country. Also left-wing governance is a tragic consequence of foreign exchange lending and everything, which is why I would also like to remind everyone here that it was this government that led to foreign exchange lending, as well as helped Hungarian families with exchange barrier, end-payment and bank settlement. Another issue of livelihood is that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian children now eat for free. The amount spent on this is several times higher than in 2010, and more than one million children receive free textbooks while half a million children have been allowed to spend their holidays in the Elizabeth camps. Older people are assisted by the government with reduced food VAT, Elisabeth's voucher, pension supplement and pension premium, after the left had taken a month's pension and a month's allowance. In their submission, they remind me that Fidesz, the government, had an important specific goal, and that is to change the negative demographic trends. That's a valid statement. This is why the government introduced the family tax reduction, which is why there is a tax relief for young married people, and that is why the government has launched a new home-building programme, which, by the way, would simply be abolished by the LMP, which has been announced. One example has been that a well-functioning home-building program was abolished by the left after 2002. We are well aware of the consequences of that, which has resulted in a gain in foreign currency lending. From the above example, it is clear that when and as this day of debate was initiated by the Left, we see that they deliberately avoided the essential facts. We understand and know that there is a campaign, but that is not a reason to put in parentheses the basic facts that prove that this country is moving ahead more than in 2010 and is strengthening, because it is actually not attacking the government, but ignoring the efforts of millions of Hungarians. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-21-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to thank the three State Secretarys in particular for having respected the timeframe. Thank you very much. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group has indicated that the Group's position will be presented by two of its Members. I give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik first. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-02-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The optimist sees opportunity in every emergency, the pessimist sees danger in every possibility. Sir Winston Churchill said these words, and I think that these words are absolutely appropriate for the representatives sitting in the two horseshoes of the Hungarian Parliament, because in the hardest times, in 2010, when the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments bankrupted the country, we saw a chance to drag the country's chariot out of this pothole with joint cooperation, close cooperation with the Hungarian people, while not oppressing our own constituents, our own countrymen; unlike the former socialist governments, who were able to respond to all crises only by raising taxes, raising contributions and reducing wages. It was not easy, ladies and gentlemen, because in 2010 Hungary was really on the verge of bankruptcy, we were insolvent, and if there was no assistance from the International Monetary Fund for which Hungarian voters paid a heavy price, then the Bajnai government would have been insolvent before the change of government. But with joint cooperation, cooperation with the Hungarian people and Hungarian people, we have also managed to turn this impossible situation into a virtue, and we have managed to overcome it with a Hungarian model, a special programme of economic policy development called unorthodox by our critics, which you, my honourable opposition colleagues, have attacked at both domestic and international level. They did everything and did everything they could to dangle the government, even though you knew perfectly well that we had taken measures, taken steps to remove the burden from the shoulders of Hungarian voters, and included those taxable persons in the common tax circle, such as multinational companies or banks, which had not previously been involved in public burdens. However, you were not interested in the fate and state of the Hungarian people, but wanted to meet these external expectations. [[9.50]] The situation hasn't changed since then. After we managed to avoid bankruptcy together, we started to achieve better results in all the sub-areas. One of the biggest tasks, mentioned by Secretary of State Pogácsás, was the management of municipal debt, since the municipalities were left on the brink of bankruptcy in 2010, as the Secretary of State said in his introduction. The first step was the consolidation of county municipalities, in which the Hungarian State assumed almost HUF 200 billion in debt. Then followed the settlements of less than 5 thousand people and the multi-purpose small regional associations, in which 1720 settlements and 10 multi-purpose small regional associations took over nearly HUF 85 billion in debt by the Hungarian government. And finally, the final step of consolidation was to take over the largest amount, the debts of settlements over 5,000 people, amounting to more than HUF 1350 billion. As a result of the withdrawals and transfers of tasks before 2010, settlements were in an untenable situation. With these steps we managed to pull the municipalities out of the bottomless pit of foreign exchange loans, where Ferenc Gyurcsány and his governments pushed the Hungarian governments along with the Hungarian families. Fidesz has always been in favour of families and employees, which it shows is that gross earnings have increased steadily since 2010, as has also been said in the State Secretary's Expos, we have been able to increase wages in Hungary by almost 40 percent compared to 2010. Meanwhile, in a unique way throughout the European Union, an agreement, a six-year agreement, has been reached by the Hungarian government with employers and employees, which has led us to achieve this wage development programme by reducing taxes and contributions. This is also a very unique model, and I think that with this cooperation we have also created the success of this. Ladies and gentlemen, Training for a healthy lifestyle should start as a child, because proper exercise contributes to improving people's quality of life and maintaining their health. That's why we introduced everyday physical education classes, thanks to which last year more than 1.2 million students played sports every school day. I remember well the opposition times when I submitted the motion for daily physical education in the Hungarian Parliament for six consecutive years, which was voted down by the then governing parties, SZDSZ and MSZP politicians, including those sitting here. They didn't care about the state of Hungarian children, they didn't care about the health situation of Hungarian society. And not only have we introduced everyday physical education, but we have also created a set of conditions for this by major infrastructural developments. In Hungary, we have not only built gymnasiums and swimming pools, but we have also created facilities that have resulted in special improvements in the conditions of daily physical education, recreation and sports. So we have achieved that we have been able to organise international events that Hungary has never been able to do before. Perhaps the most wonderful example of this is the FINA World Championship, which was held last year, and which was seen by nearly half a million viewers on the ground and 4 billion broadcasts through television. 4 billion people around the world have seen what a wonderful director and host of this event Hungary has become, which the president of FINA himself summarized in his closing speech that they all witnessed the best organized World Championship ever. This was confirmed by Olympic and world champion athletes. I think that not only we politicians, but all Hungarian people can be genuinely proud of this. Ladies and gentlemen, I have yet to draw attention to one more very important issue, and that is to preserve the values, the successes, the results that we have achieved in cooperation with the Hungarian electorate over the last seven years. Today, the greatest danger that could endanger the preservation of this value is the implementation of the Soros plan. The stake is whether Hungary will become an immigrant country, whether it will be a blackmailable government, or whether we will remain autonomous, we will remain with the power and cooperation that we have been able to perform miracles in the last seven years. The opposition is clearly pro-immigration, which is no longer a question, but it was not only supported by tax reduction measures, not only did they not participate in the wage increase, but they could not be expected to protect the country. They would not only raise the wages of local government workers, they would give the money directly to migrants, as you know, fellow Members, that every illegal immigrant has to spend EUR 30 thousand in two years, or HUF 9 million in Hungary... [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: You brought in 1300 people! Why did you bring him in? Why did you take them in? 1300! The president's ringing the bell.]] It is no question, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that these values, which we have been able to create together with the Hungarian people in recent times, can only be protected if we stop the Soros plan and defend Hungary's borders. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among others: 1300!]] Remember, my fellow Members, Pál Németh, I would like to conclude with the quote of one of the most successful Hungarian athletic coaches:. The winners will never give up. Those who give up never win. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-21-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member's speech will be continued by Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor...
u2018-02-21-13	Mr President,
u2018-02-21-14	But before you begin, I am sorry, but I am asking my fellow socialists not to jeopardize their ability to speak. Thank you very much. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: God forbid!]]
u2018-02-21-15	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! TV viewers and radio listeners! Even though the economy is growing, which my colleague Erik Bánki and the representatives of the government have spoken about, if not enough children are born, if the demographic figures that we all know do not improve. For this reason, good economic policy, which the Orbán government has been pursuing for the eighth year, is not enough, but a good family policy must be accompanied by good economic policy. A family policy that helps and encourages childbearing; a family policy that thinks about the birth of more children and the birth of desired children earlier; a good family policy that does not support resettlement, the deployment of foreign cultures into Hungary, not migrant policy; it does help young people to have children and, as I said, to take on children as early as possible. Fidesz-KDNP's policy has always been to achieve the goal of not having children as a commitment to poverty. We are presenting more instruments, more economic policy and family policy instruments to this end. One of the things I would like to mention here is the tax system. We support families who have children. You can make up for the tax on children for the amount. For those who are not satisfied with this amount, the tax allowance for children can be deducted from the contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the point that families with children are living better, as their net average income has risen by 45% between 2010 and 2016. So families with children live better. Here, I would like to highlight the extension of the duration of the child by one year. This was necessary because left-wing governments fought back in the past. And I would point out that the maximum amount of weed has increased by 75 percent. We introduced your graduate. We introduced your brother - in - lawn, which means that each child can be used. And your graduate is about sending a message to young people, sending a message to college students that they should also dare to have children, because the time spent in a higher education institution is a period of service, so they can use the child to take on children. This has improved the compatibility of work and family life. [[10.00]] On average, the value of the family home creation discount has increased by nearly three times, and the range of right holders has increased significantly. So far, more than 59 thousand families have used it. It is very important that if a mother, a father, wants to work from a family, make sure that her child is in good conditions and that the place where she is is is supported by the state. I'm talking about crèches here, so we've increased the number of crèches. Let me give you a figure: Between 2010-16, the number of cradle seats increased by 12,000. Our aim is to have 60,000 seats by 2020. Let me talk about the fact that there has been a very significant increase in wages among daycare workers, as compared to 2015 by the end of 2016, those with higher education have an average increase of 63 per cent and in 2018 there will be an additional 12 per cent increase in wages. If we talk about families and family support, then let's also talk about the free catering that Secretary Bence Rétvári has already mentioned. In 2010 the outgoing socialist government planned 29 billion HUF for the children's meal.The 2018 budget already allocates 79.3 billion HUF for the children's meal. We've also extended the holiday meal. This is very important, isn't it, when we support families in having children, in raising children, that, as has been said, more than 500 thousand children eat for free, and more than one million children receive it free of charge, get access to textbooks. There's no way I can talk about the situation of pensioners. Fidesz-KDNP appreciates and respects Hungarian pensioners, and we are therefore working to ensure that the pension system is safe, stable and predictable, and, as promised, pensions should be valuable. Pensions are not only valuable, but also their real value, their value. Here, let me just look back a little bit, so that just those who initiated today's debate were the ones who raised the retirement age and took a month's pension from pensioners. One of our first actions in 2010 was the introduction of the so-called "40" Women. Here it was very important that women, women who worked for 40 years, including the time spent having children and raising children, could go to a full-fledged, full-fledged pension. Every year, the number of mothers, women who take advantage of this opportunity increases. They are often involved in raising grandchildren in the family. If we are talking about a pension, then allow me to jump back to 2010 for one more second, when the socialists handed over the pension fund with a deficit of about HUF 350 billion that caused problems in the payment of the pension of the pensioners at the time. So very serious work had to be done to ensure that pensioners would continue to receive their pensions from month to month. So the socialists endangered pensioners and pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, After the short time has passed, my fellow Members will continue to talk about health care and other issues. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-02-21-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, All I would like to say to Gabriella Selmeczi is that anyone who protects private pensions or people's pensions by blackmailing them into their own private property, lying that they will be transferred to a private account and they have not seen anything since then, I think it would be better if he didn't say a word between the walls of this House, because the dome will fall on us. I would just like to say to Erik Bánki that he spoke of Gordon Bajnai, who, by the way, was praised in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself on 11 November 2010; he said literally: "The continent can lift a hat before Hungary, because no one in Europe has done as much to restore the balance of public finances as the two successive Hungarian governments, so he thought of the Bajnai government and himself, and then he listed the actions of the Socialist Government. Typically, there is selective thinking, which is typical of his entire speech. However, honourable Members and Honourable Parliament, the government constantly stresses that, and Viktor Orbán himself and Mihály Varga constantly say that from the crisis, from a deep crisis, Hungary has set itself on a new, long-term, sustainable, growing course. However, it is worth looking at the facts. If we compare two eras and periods free from the global economic crisis, we can see that when I compare the periods 2003 and 2007 and 2013 and 2017 with 2002 and 2012 as base years and a hundred percent that, based on the data of the Central Statistical Office at the end of September 2017, we can say that the economic growth of the period led by the left between 2003 and 2007 was 18,7 percent, whereas, in contrast, Fidesz led the period 2013-2017 was only able to produce only 16.9 percent growth in the global economy crisis. Taking this into account that they were able to achieve only a significant surplus of EU funds when there is a wealth of money in the world economy; when there is, in essence, a loose monetary, European and Hungarian monetary policy, i.e. a very favourable global economy. It is clear and clear that Fidesz has not been able to achieve even the economic growth that had previously been achieved by left-wing governments between 2003 and 2007, with significantly fewer EU funds. So not only is the myth, honourable Members, that our country would stand on its own feet, but its claim, which Mihály Varga and Viktor Orbán claim to have put the Hungarian economy on a sustainable growth path in the long term, because once again they could not produce what Hungary had previously achieved with significant EU resources. Unfortunately, the government of Fidesz is also a waste of time in Hungary's life in this respect. They won't get you out of this country, which, by the way, is in this country. And if we take into account the fact that the flow of European resources in Hungary may decrease significantly after 2020, then I must say that it is not worth entrusting this country to people and governments who, even under such wealth and favourable economic conditions, cannot produce what Hungary could produce and achieve. Because they could not achieve the type of economic growth and the kind of well-being that Hungarian people would not only deserve, but also be able to achieve. Because yes, my dear fellow Members, prosperity is a matter of political will. We see how much income differences have increased in Hungary in recent years, and this proves that the one-key tax that has been committed is not only unfair to us left-wingers, but also the figures and figures I have just told show that the type of growth and economic growth that you would have expected from this would not have been able to produce is a single-key tax. Of course, a tax increase is out of the question. In fact, we socialists say that the average incomers and the small-timers should at last really and radically reduce their tax burden against you, and not as you have done by constantly raising it. [[10.10]] In addition to a fairer tax system, we see the source of economic growth in investment in human resources, human capital and investment. That is why we talk a lot about education and health. Because if prosperity and this is a matter of political will, unfortunately, it is also worth looking at the numbers here. While budget expenditure on welfare functions accounted for 61.5 percent of budget expenditure in 2010, in 2018, the government would only use 54.2 percent of expenditure for this purpose. It is very important that we also see education and health costs. Before 2010, we spent 6.1 percent of GDP on education activities, and in 2018 we would spend just five, 4.9 percent of GDP in this area; the results are visible. The situation in health is also tragic: in 2010, we spent 4.6 percent of GDP on health expenditure, whereas next year, In addition to wage increases, only 4.1 percent is intended for this area. Furthermore, if we look at the fact that in the field of education, while talking about a strong Hungary and a strong nation state, 50,000 children have been exposed in the last seven years, not only without a professional but also without a primary education degree, it is a tragedy. How will these children become tax-paying citizens; how will they live, let alone as citizens, even as human beings? But we can also pay attention to other numbers, for example, the number of functional illiterates is increasing rapidly, according to the PISA reports, while the number of life expectancy has decreased dramatically in Hungary over the last seven years. If we look at the fact that the number of hospital infections has doubled and there could be 30 thousand more people each year, 30 thousand more people could be saved in Hungarian hospitals and in Hungarian health care if you did not finance healthcare so much. These are exact numbers, it's hard to argue with, and unfortunately, people feel on their own skin on a daily basis. Well, please, if you have a strong Hungary and a strong nation state, you're in some sort of catastrophic conceptual disorder! Please, that's all. It's just not a sustainable growth path. But going on, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in my opinion, destroyed the Hungarian school and education issue with Fidesz in the last seven years. This statement is even more serious if I take into account his own secret study, which he wants to hide, but it is still on the website that in the next ten years more than 500 thousand Hungarian jobs will be lost or transformed in Hungary as a result of automation, robotisation and technological development, then the industrial chamber and the Fidesz education policy have an even greater responsibility. But if I take this into account, I say not only that Hungary and politicians do not need to return to the solutions before 2010, but that is why I say that there is no way to go back to the solutions before 2010, because the world is changing, the technology is evolving. Never so quickly have people's lives, working conditions, everyday life been transformed by technological progress. I therefore deeply believe that a country such as our country, Hungary, in a global economic environment in which it must endure, with a rapid technological development that has never been experienced before, is capable of providing real growth and prosperity to the people of this country, beyond liberal democracy, only social democracy can ensure real growth and prosperity. If I may say so within the walls of this House, Anna Kéthly said that in our democracy there is no less freedom, but more equality. Yes, please, we socialists believe that freedom is never less in social democracy, but it is justice, solidarity, humanity and the safe well-being available to all people. I could say that the next 10-15 years of the country must be about personalised democracy, where the country must invest all or most of its resources in people's health, physical and mental, mental health, knowledge, education, knowledge of high added value, professional skills. Let me tell you something else: if Fidesz has made a mistake somewhere in the past, I think it is that the state that every nation keeps together from its own tax forints, such as education, health care, the social system, that state has been turned against people. This has been done before by government, but I could almost say that there hasn't been a system in Hungary in almost decades. Absurd, I have already mentioned educational and health numbers, but where else, when the Hungarian people see that the Fidesz state is protected by their State Secretary and government against foreign exchange credentials, I believe that the political elite can commit a crime when he turns his own state against his own people and his nation. Finally, in my last moments, let me draw Hungary's attention, because we are here at the end of the cycle, that the election that we are about to make now is indeed a huge stake in Hungary, not only what the lives of future generations will be, but it will also have a European impact, and indeed there is a very large European stake. If we look at Europe and its political map from Europe for a moment, then we can see that there are essentially two trends fighting each other. One is the trend towards a return to nation-state selfishness, which, in my opinion, is a highly outperformed trend. The other is representatives of those who are organised on a nation-state basis, but who are calling for the preservation of European unity. These two trends are fighting one another, unfortunately there are also many followers of nation-state selfishness in Europe. We need to know that those who promote European unity have done nothing but to preserve the well-being, economic development and peace of the peoples of Europe since World War II. Unfortunately, you do nothing but try to destroy this peace and unity as much as possible from European Union sources. Yeah, unfortunately, they have followers. A new right-wing and extreme right-wing gap in Europe is common. I'm afraid you need to see this. But the kind of breakthrough that Viktor Orbán has adopted for the year of rebellion, and what Mr Kósa has been expecting for the year of awakening is also a tragedy that a right-wing man who calls himself a Democrat does not say that. This year of rebellion was cancelled, the European Democrats sometimes bitterly held the fronts from election to election, and resisted the extreme right-wing illiberal advance. Yes, it is now Hungary's turn, Hungary has a choice to make. Yes, Hungarian voters are now in the historic moment and position that they can decide not only for their own fate what the lives of future generations will be like in Hungary, but also a Hungarian X and a Hungarian vote can change the winds throughout Europe. I wish with all my heart that the Hungarian nation had the power to do so. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2018-02-21-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Gergely Gaal. I'll wait for Congressman to put the mic on. [[It's happening.]] Yes, Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-19	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. From the rather intricate title of today's debate day, which is obviously initiated by the opposition in the spirit of the political campaign, but which they have visited in quite a small number, I would like to draw attention to a few things about local government. Only because, perhaps, in opposition communication, we have seen, in this connection most of all, that statements based on false news have also been made. First, the constitutional foundations of the municipal system, which are the Fundamental Law and the municipal law, are solid, and therefore we on the part of the governing parties see no reason to touch them. Of course, no local governments will be liquidated anywhere, all settlements may have local authorities in the future. [[10.20]] By the way, as a Christian Democrat, I would like to confirm this by saying that, as a well-known historical party, we have established principles for many decades, and one of the most important of these is the principle of subsidiarity. Subsidiarity is the principle of theoretical foundation of autonomous, self-employed and free communities. Christian Democratic social organisation principle, which is also a technique of power organisation and a moral standard. Power management technique, if it regulates the relationship between the individual, natural communities and the state, and is a moral principle if it imposes obligations on both society and the state in achieving the common good. At the same time, it legitimises the freedom of individuals and groups and displays the imperialist of responsibility for others. The principle of subsidiarity is also an answer to the eternal questions of political philosophy that seek harmony between the individual and the community. So it is clear that we Christian democrats are certainly in favour of these principles. Allow me to draw particular attention to three areas of local government, which are issues affecting local governments, and which, I think, are important to us. First, I would like to draw attention to an area that was important for the municipalities to express a fundamental pillar of Fidesz-KDNP governance, the cross-border unity of the Hungarian nation. I would like to say a few words about sisterhood programmes and cooperation. The Hungarian government, in particular the Bethlen Gábor Fund, has been operating a tendering system for several years in order to promote its prosperity in the homeland of Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary and its multifaceted relations with Hungary, with the aim of maintaining Hungarian-Hungarian relations between Hungary and the Hungarian settlements of the Carpathian Basin, developing them and organising sister settlement programmes. In particular, we are talking about the mutual development of existing cooperation between Hungarian municipalities and the municipalities of Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia and Austria, as well as the exchange of experience, the transfer of knowledge and best practices, the promotion of events related to Hungarian history and the joint programmes related to our national holidays, the promotion of cooperation between educational and educational institutions in sister settlements, the promotion of cultural heritage, the implementation of cultural, youth and traditional activities, and, of course, the development of new sister settlement relationships. The amount of non-refundable grants that can be awarded by one application can range from HUF 500 thousand to HUF 2.5 million. The total grant amount is HUF 200 million. I believe that this programme will also contribute to the healing of the historical wounds of the last 100 years with the involvement of local authorities, and will do so by strengthening the links between local communities. The other area I would like to refer to or draw attention to is the strengthening of local communities. This is an opportunity for municipalities to support the development of cultural and community spaces in settlements, an operational programme for territorial and urban development, aimed at implementing integrated and programme-based development at urban level, increasing the participation and awareness of local communities in order to renew local societies and develop a local community-based economy. This means the renewal of the cultural and community life of cities, the development and dissemination of Community-based economic development methodologies with the cooperation of local populations, civil society organisations, businesses and municipalities. The total available budget was about HUF 45 billion. I would also like to draw attention to a third area, which is also extremely important for the municipalities, because the churches are also involved in our society as a very important social and community-forming force. This community-building activity was also supported by the government. This is also very important for the municipalities, since the churches' organisations are in close contact with the municipalities and can not help each other's work in the same area. I would like to talk to church organisations about support for community programmes and investment in 2017. The churches, church organizations and Hungarian-speaking church organizations can receive HUF 2.1 billion to support community programmes and investments, as well as to protect the built heritage. In the last five years, some HUF 9.4 billion of aid applications were accepted in the framework of the various proposals, which aim to ensure that the community, which is in school, can be found in all communities and cities. I also think that this is of great importance to the municipalities. In addition to these specific programmes, allow me to make a few points a little more general. Obviously, what is good for Hungary is good for the municipalities. I would like to point out here first of all that I would like to draw attention to the fact that the good performance of the Hungarian economy is a general factor which improves the state and the situation of Hungary, which is extremely important for the municipalities as well. In 2013 the Hungarian economy moved towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure, and the structure of economic growth became sustainable in the long term, i.e. it is not driven by debt. The favourable trend is supported by current growth data. In 2016, Hungary's GDP exceeded its 2010 level by 12.4 percent. In terms of sector performance, added value has increased significantly in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, business and public services. The acceleration of growth is expected to increase by 4.1 percent this year, and by 4.3 percent next year, and by more than 3.5 percent in the following years. Government measures previously taken to support growth, such as the reduction of money and bank tax, the reduction of VAT rates for certain products, the increase of family tax incentives and the promotion of new housing construction, have substantially contributed to the strengthening of domestic demand in recent years. By the way, in the area of municipalities, we can see, for example, the very spectacular effect of encouraging housing constructions, which also improves the image of the settlement. One of the most important pillars of growth-supporting economic policy is the six-year wage agreement concluded recently at the competitive and government's permanent consultation forum, resulting in additional income for economic operators as a result of wage increases and reductions in social contribution tax and corporate tax, thus strengthening both internal demand, employment and export capacities and the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. Let's talk about public employment. In recent years Hungary has moved from the aid-based society to the work-based society. For everyone who can and can do it, if necessary, with a high level of public help and engagement, the possibility of working must be guaranteed. In addition to the fact that a wide range of public employment programmes have been mobilised, Community activities have been supported in addition to the social usefulness of value-creating employment, as well as the opportunity to provide work and a living for disadvantaged groups. Public employment is considered to be temporary employment by the government, which provides jobs and salaries to job seekers instead of aid. It is important to stress that public employment is the only opportunity for people living in the most disadvantaged regions of the country to create value, and it is a key element in eliminating territorial disparities. Public employment is not a goal, but a means of entering the primary labour market, so public employment must be considered a transitional state. The government stresses that it is not possible to maintain a system where aid is equivalent to workable wages. Moreover, as a result of the work of the public workers, the overall image and order of the settlements improved, the residential and natural environment became more beautiful, cleaner, the protection of the values of the population was achieved, the public safety improved, and therefore the tourist attractiveness of the settlements also increased, so there are a lot of aspects that affect the municipalities, and because of this the desire to do for the community has also increased. [[10.30]] Let's also talk about municipal wage increases. Depending on the economic performance of the economy, the government is determined to better manage the pay of the various professions, improve the pay and earnings positions of those in the public service, one of the important elements of which is the government's consultation with employers' organisations and employees' representatives. The government's commitment to raising public sector workers' wages is shown by increasing the wages of soldiers, policemen, teachers, nurses, doctors, ambulances, higher education workers. Thanks to favourable economic processes, the government has been able to provide assistance in a number of local government-related areas, including debt consolidation, public employment and wage increases. Ladies and gentlemen. If we look only at the pro-government speeches and what I have said, we can clearly see that the Fidesz-KDNP government has made enormous efforts in recent years to help municipalities. Like my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, allow me to conclude with a quote. The quote comes from Miklós Zrínyi, the poet and general, who writes in his book Meditations on the Life of King Matthias: "Let no one take softly in his business, but let him be hands and feet of the actio that is done by man, for if he only operate slow and gentlely, he will not have any reward. I think that the very dynamic government activity of the last few years fits very well with this principle, which was already formulated a few centuries ago. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next up is the Jobbik Group. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-02-21-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last two days and including this day, everyone may be in a slightly more nostalgic mood, since we are not only on the last day of the session, but probably also at the last parliamentary event closing the term. Unfortunately, this debate day, despite the fact that although it could have given a reason to pass in such a mood and provide a framework for a normal debate, seems to be a little out of shape now, and yet some messages have not been fully expressed in the voice of political respect, but forget it. I think that we have talked about quite a lot about health in the last four years here in Parliament, we have had debates, perceived or real grievances, or we have tried to deal with actual or often misunderstood problems. I believe that this debate was a place. Healthcare may have become one of the most cited topics. While between 2010 and 14, it was introduced in a small way into the walls of Parliament, since 2014, it has been affected not only by an increased public address but also by a political public address. I believe that this debate, these debates, had a very important role and place, and they also needed to draw the public's attention to health. In connection with the debate day, Jobbik was driven by the aim, and I will be perfectly honest with you that we really wanted to discuss the situation of general health care and basic care well and professionally. I also say to the Secretary of State behind me, Bence Rétvári, that the political campaign slogans did not define the preparation in this, nor will they hear from me, but the debate generation that has unfortunately been cancelled over the past four years. On some level, I was a political idealist when we started debates on health care, and fortunately there were several of them. I always thought that we could bring up some meaningful communication with each other, some sort of solution proposal, and that's why I believed that, by the way, political parties could come to a common minimum or idea above political logic, defining public thinking and influencing the next period for 20-25 years. I have not given up on this idea, by the way, because I believe that this could serve not only in health care but also in education, unbroken development and improvements in health care. If you like, this is the time that may be the 21st. This is why we initiated this debate day, and that is why we thought to talk a little bit about general medicine as a system, as in the service area that is perhaps best able to remove burdens from the shoulders of health care that is under pressure due to technological development, ageing of society and increased public expectations. It is also important to clarify what basic care is, since we often mix the word basic care and its definition with general medicine itself. You may all already know that basic care is significantly wider than dental care, as it is part of the basic care of dentists, protective services, and even home care, even though it is a part of professional care. Overall, they could be described as all the benefits that are closest to the population, which are constantly available, and which are the first points of contact not only in healing but also in prevention. This is why it is worth taking this area seriously and looking at it well, which is why it is important to review the critical points in this area, and home medicine is perhaps one of the bottlenecks that must be addressed. We all know that if we are awakened from our sleep, then we are thinking of the role of gatekeeper. This means that as a first meeting point, it filters, directs and represents a continuous access point for the population, sets up the diagnosis, forwards it, and can remove a very heavy burden on the care system in the treatment of chronic diseases, but also plays a major role in palliative benefits, practically in the care of the elderly and in the predeath period. What is really important, is an international statement, and we have to stick to it, and we have to follow these designated paths, so that we can talk about strong home medicine, we can talk about a strong basic supply, that if this is otherwise general and widely available, then if it constantly coordinates patients, continuously coordinates the rest of the care, this is guaranteed, and there is a sufficient financial framework. Seeing these four points, we need to ask ourselves whether we have this in modern Hungarian health care today, or whether we have it in all continental health care and even in the world in health care, whether this idea, which the profession expects, can be fulfilled under any circumstances by society or, for example, by a state or by a government. It seems to me that, in many cases, the obstacle is nothing more than an external pressure not only on health care but also on general health care, and that, as I have already said, is due to the constant ageing of the population and, in addition to ageing, there is a constant increase in demand for the fastest, the most high-quality, high-tech care available. Fortunately, the spread of new technology and its unstoppable growth not only causes people to have better prospects for life, but also causes what may be less fortunate from a government point of view, and perhaps the Ministry of National Economy could talk about it, that we are faced with a technological cost explosion that constantly puts the budget under one press and, above all, the E-Fund or the state's dedicated funds for financing it. But the increase in the incidence of chronic diseases, multimorbidity, all of these contribute to the enormous pressure of general care, and it is also clear that in the traditional model in which Hungary is present, we are basically a little stuck to the principle of a doctor. We are in a very difficult monolithic system, from which it is very difficult to break out well. The figures show the critical elements that may not have been discussed today, but it is certainly worth bringing here that, unfortunately, even with the decline in the number of practices, we are faced with an ongoing elimination due to the unattractiveness of the track, a growth in practice that now seems natural, but is not natural. This number is above 300, and I think we all know that, or there are nearly 440,000 people who do not have access to a doctor who is defined according to the principles set out just now, and according to the current projections, this could increase to nearly 900 thousand over the next 7-9 years. So at some level, we have a common political responsibility to stop this. Obviously, we can throw any adjectives at each other, we can insult each other with anything, the problem will not disappear, it will not disappear, so we must make firm proposals in the solution of GP and GP care systems. We also see that while there are terrible data in the dandruff, the improvement doesn't really infiltrate the other end. 43 percent of GPs are over 60. Unfortunately, we have seen, and statistics have shown the sad data that, while the number of GPs decreased in the younger age group, the proportion has increased for the elderly. So, basically, we're dealing with a constant ageing. [[10.40]] I am aware that the government has tried to capture it in more ways and to prevent this system from sliding even further to the brink, but we need more effort than that, and more effort is to rethink what we know about the GP system so far. In recent times Jobbik and not really Jobbik, but all the experts who dealt with the situation of general medicine have clearly defined the intervention points in which to take action. The current system is a 27-year-old system, but I think it has been in place since 1960-70, which has determined how everyone should have access to GP. In essence, this changed after the change of regime in so far as the State had put the assets into the hands of the supplier, freed up general medical treatment and gave them a business opportunity. I also believe that the law of practice is 15-16 years old now, and I think it has continued to be a difficult state and I think it has continued to be fossilized, and I do not think that general medicine has been able to face up to the fact that there is a need for change in the field of general medicine. Perhaps it is the absence of this change, the tiny adjustments that give the whole area its attraction and the non-attractiveness, the whole system. Thus, our overall goal must be to strengthen the real role of gatekeeper so that it can actually enter the XXI. It's a century of general medical care. This requires, in particular, a legislative adjustment. To do this, I think we will need all the Members, because in relation to the law of practice itself, in rethinking the existence and functioning of the practice, some political consensus will have to be reached in its status. It is also obvious that a practical basis will have to be set up in which senior GP colleagues have the opportunity to acquire the property rights of their practice, so if you like, they will be able to take care of their own financial situation in such a way that it is not an obstacle to the entry of younger people, and this can provide them with economic and financial security. It is very important that the right of practice can be treated again as an actual property right, a right acting as such, a right of material value with such ability. But we also have an important task in the field of financing practices. At present, we see that funding is HUF 1-1,3 million per practice. In essence, the amount should be doubled to ensure that it is properly sustainable and that modern XXI. I think it is a requirement of the century to provide technology, staff and other equipment, to meet these needs. This will require at least a double increase in the amount of funding. This is, of course, not a small amount of money, a serious effort and an E-fund adjustment. However, it is also necessary to see that while in the E Fund, from which health services are essentially financed, it was the shift towards specialist orders and the hospital, the balance must now be restored, because now, it seems, it is 2-3 percent losing in favour of general health care, if you may put it that way. In other words, the distribution weight of general medical care within the E Fund should be increased by at least 2-3 percent. This includes a surplus of funding, including measures relating to the proper management of the practice fund and of the law of practice, including urgent, otherwise instrumental developments that should be given the opportunity to provide basic care and to general practitioners. But it also includes the need to think about how local governments can be more encouraged to introduce the business tax exemption all of them, and thus give general practitioners the opportunity to get rid of another financial burden. But it's very important that we do something about the coral. Obviously, there is a need to reconsider the number of admissions to training. There is also a need to rethink competence issues, i.e. how a specialist can act as a service provider if he has several exams to ensure his or her stay on the track. Many of us have also heard that GPs have several exams, but they cannot carry out professional examinations, they cannot use the funding involved, so the track is not attractive. Young people, who are planning on continuing education or some level of development, are also not taking this course and are not taking advantage of it. So we see that overall, we need a serious, thick, but perhaps still acceptable budget for the recovery of home medicine. This should cost nearly HUF 20-30 billion, which must always be guaranteed by the budget, and beyond that it will have to be ensured, since, as I said, ageing and technological development are exerting this pressure. Jobbik would like to see a general medical system and thus a basic care that is finally really XXI. It's a century-old, capable of using modern technology, which is able to utilize technological progress for its own benefit, and which is able to balance regional disparities in the country. This is another big problem: there are very serious differences in practice not only in some areas of the country, but also in coverage and access. This needs to be balanced in some way. Then we can grow up to the idea of general health and basic care that with a strong general health care, with a strong basic care, we can essentially generate health gains, maintain the health capacity of the population, which is also important for work and productivity. It can have extremely good results in terms of life in health. Overall, it would help Hungary to really have a more competitive, healthier economy. And yes, in small areas like general medicine, it depends. For our part, we have arrived here on this debate day with the constructive proposal to debate these issues, to look at ways to move forward, to create a political consensus. Jobbik has always been open to this political consensus, and it is our task to establish this consensus, because it is the future of the system. With a strong GP system, it is essentially possible to prevent a much greater burden on specialist care and prevent us from continuing to lag behind in health life. I'm sorry that I went too far, and thank you so much for your patience. I would ask my fellow Members to discuss this, if possible, and to make further proposals for amendments, and then we will try to sum this up by political consensus. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-02-21-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Ms Bernadett Szél. Madam director, you have the floor, please.
u2018-02-21-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to welcome to today's debate the members of the Trade Union of Hungarian Civil Officials, Public Servants and Civil Service Workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The representatives of the trade unions sit in the gallery upstairs and follow this debate that we have in Parliament with each other. They do this because they are directly affected by the topic proposed by LMP as a direct topic of the debate day: increasing the wages of municipal workers, the public sector's wage situation and the situation of local governments in Hungary. This is what we have asked for, to focus on these issues on the virtually last day of the 2014-18 cycle in Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, I find it amazing that you have seen the issue of raising the wages of local government workers as a focus, but it has been discussed in 20 seconds. They talked about everything, their family policy, the fence, George Soros, everything was in this room. They talked for 20 seconds about the situation of these people. You know, they obviously did this because you know perfectly well that they owe these people. You are indebted to that 18,000 local government workers and you are indebted to the entire Hungarian public sector because you have been ruling and basking in Hungary for the eighth year, but have not been able to settle the wages of these people. You will end this government cycle by keeping this debt there. [[10.50]] But I vowed that the LMP will fight until the last moment to make this a topic, and that you will be forced to respond, because with a completely cynical and pesky argument, you have brought everything forward here that you will be able to raise wages depending on your economic performance. How long have we been listening to this line? Did they also tell Lőrinc Mészáros that he would get his wages depending on his economic performance? Has Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's son-in-law been told that he will receive the money that taxpayers should receive depending on economic performance? How many times do we hear in this country, how many governments do we have to hear about economic performance? ! My other favorite was the negotiation. You said you had confidence in negotiations. Well, you don't have to trust and you don't have to believe, you have to do it. Did you do the meetings? Mr. Secretary of State Pogácsás is a propagandaist, Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári, Secretary of State Dömötör, but you will have the opportunity to answer this question: how much have you discussed with these people? The Hungarian government has sent a non-mandated negotiating partner to consult local government workers. What do you think you're doing? ! And they haven't responded to their call since. You know, I thought it was important for this debate day to put this question on the floor, actually, to say the least, because you have to answer it now. Ladies and Gentlemen, Will the municipal workers raise their wages or not from the Fidesz-KDNP government? You know, the situation is very simple. These people are on strike. People don't strike in good spirits. People are on strike because they're unhappy. I would like to bring the voice of those people into this pristine, old, horrible Chamber... yes, Mr. Secretary of State, it is terrible because you are lying about Hungarian democracy and not dealing with people. Secretary of State, answer me the question of what you do about the governance of these people that ended eight years ago. Who cares, like they say? ! Neither are the voters very much; I apologise, fellow Members, but the last thing I care about is how you see the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai. What I'm interested in is these people up there in the gallery getting their raises or not getting their raises. They've been telling us stories for eight years. They've been saying yours for eight years. I've been listening to you for eight years. You're going to create cradle seats. I am only saying this because Gabriella Selmeczi is in the back now, but she is listening to my fellow Member. I've asked for the KSH data: your governance has reduced the number of cradle seats. This is kindergarten reform. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's up 16,000! We told you yesterday, but you weren't listening.]] Mr. Secretary, press the button, please, there is order in this House. László Fat warned me the other day not to be a kindergarten teacher. I don't want to say anything like that to you, but press the button, I pressed the button, you have more time, use the time. So, these people are on strike. You cannot ignore from the government side that the strike is taking place for many times. Fifth time! 112 offices were on strike. 7300 Hungarian workers stood up for a decent wage. We're talking about the salary of 18,000 civil servants. These people's wages haven't been raised in ten years. Do you know, Mr. Secretary, you and the other Secretary of State, how much these people make? We're talking 100-120,000 net. I would like to read here the voice of the man who lives it every day. I would like to read this letter because you do not care about the people, but I will bring it to the Hungarian Parliament and I will read this letter which I have received, but it is for you, because now you are on the government, and you are in this Parliament so many that you can raise wages. Listen to me. Be nice. Outcast for public service. It is known to everyone that the civil servants' salary bill has not changed since 2008. Civil servants have been left out of wage increases and all other benefits received by workers in other sectors in recent years. These workers, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, do not leave, they are in the public service, yet they are outcasts of the Government of Hungary. They do not appreciate their work, ignore their duties, and have also been deprived of the days of civil servants who have been accepted for years. As if they didn't exist; they shouldn't strike, they shouldn't demand, they should be glad to work, and they should do so silently. A civil servant is not only a local government but also a public authority. Now, listen, fellow Members, listen to me, not to each other, because I am reading the thoughts of a man, Mr Secretary of State. Listen to me. What would happen if the mandatory data services were not carried out if the public employees did not receive their wages, if the representative bodies were to meet without proposals, if minutes were not prepared, if the needy people were left without municipal support, if the car tax and business tax were not levied and collected, if there were no marriage before them, if the newborn and the deceased had not been registered, if they had not helped the mayor's work? How would municipal institutions operate without them? Yeah, it would be a mess if it weren't for these people. That's what the people involved wrote to me. Civil servants also represent the same value as workers in other sectors, but no one listens to them. If there is no change in civil servants' salaries in the future, if this noble service continues to fall behind, more and more will leave this fine course, duly. I think that the words of this desperate civil servant show as much as possible how much you look at these people and ignore them. They would like nothing more than to increase the salary base from HUF 38 650 to HUF 60,000. That's what they want. But they're not just standing up for themselves, they're standing up for 18,000, but they're also standing up for the 200,000 people who work in the sector, the public service, and who haven't gotten anything from you in ten years. There's money here for everything. They're posting lies in the country, they're urinating, the Prime Minister's moving to the Castle, the stadiums, and I could go on. They give money for everything. Secretary of State, Mr Pogácsás State Secretary, you must answer the question as to why these people are not given a wage increase. I know of two excuses, one of which was the objection of Minister John Lázár. By the way, I'm sorry no minister came, I don't think they're collecting signatures in the individual districts, so you could have come to this debate day. That's where I'm going to continue my work this afternoon. Where are you? Where are they at this hour? Really, where are the ministers? But let us see what John Lazarus said. He said that the municipalities had nothing to do with the state. That's what he said. It's a pretty steep statement, but I'm pretty sure that's how it all came together in his head. And you also said that the strike is actually an anti-government political action, and you want to influence the elections. Well, I'm sorry, the fact that people want to make a living on their wages is a base. That's not an influence on the election. The influence of elections, if you don't give that money to these people, will reduce your popularity. They can't put up enough Soros posters in the country for these people to be for dinner and everything else in their families. What I can tell you is that for the third year, they've been watching the workers' strike. The only reason this isn't a political action before the elections is because it's been going on for years. You've bled out the municipalities. 1302 local government offices in 303 were able to provide this certain salary increase only from their own resources, the others could not manage it, because it is an old Hungarian saying that nothing can be made of. You have to give the money to the municipalities. And I can also tell you that when I listened to Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, he said that fake news, false news, stupidity is that you want to grind up the local governments and that you want to crush the local authorities. You know, if you don't give these municipalities a raise in wages, this will also result in these municipalities falling apart because of the lack of labour. Half of Hungary's territory belongs to settlements of less than 2 thousand inhabitants. One and a half million people live in the villages. We don't have to make a big fuss about these local governments, big laws, posters campaign and everything. You can still make it happen, Mr. Secretary of State, that they won't give you a raise, and they're going to suck the workforce away from other sectors and other countries, because they won't be able to do it for that kind of money. It's absurd, by the way. For a long time, there has been a lack of a notary or financial officer in the settlement, and they have not been able to draw up financial reports in this settlement. Guess how much they fined this settlement. 54 million forints! Do you know how much the village's own income was? 25 million forints! Well, where's the sense, where's the reason, where's the structured thinking, where's the strategic thinking? ! What is your purpose? I'll tell you that we're talking about 42 billion forints here and now. What these people are asking for up in the gallery would be possible with 42 billion forints. How much did the government get for government communication, propaganda last time? You are a real Secretary of State for Propaganda, Secretary of State Dömötör. Do you know how much he got? 46 billion! Why didn't you give these people this 46 billion? [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Why is it more important for you to humiliate us on billboards than to make these people pay for checks, to have money to buy their child a winter shoe, and to continue. Because we're talking about very bad wages. There are problems like that here. [[11.00]] The problem isn't what kind of car we're looking out of, Mr. Secretary of State, of such luxury or such luxury. Here's the bet on whether there's money for rent or no money for rent. You know, I represent the interests of these people. Strangely enough, before the elections, on this day of debate initiated by the opposition, I thought it was important to bring this issue in because these people are struggling very hard and I really appreciate their efforts and I would like to help them in every possible way. But it's a veterinary horse. Because what these people are talking about, it's about working poverty. You've been telling us this amazing propaganda about how well things have been going for the past eight years. I'm sure they missed their calculation that from 2011 to 17 you've doubled employee poverty. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right.]] And if we talk about local government wages in the public sector, and if you were to raise wages here, otherwise it would require a total of HUF 300 billion, the workers' poverty in Hungary would be greatly reduced. We in the government will tie the wage bill to the minimum wage, starting here. And what we need is a single public service career, not a substitute. We need a wage increase that goes into the basic wage, and from there on, it goes through the entire career. This is what we offer these people, and that we will not give István Tiborcz 300 billion forints, I don't know how much money you will push to and from corruption, but we will give it to these people in wages, health care, education and important things. That's the problem, you know, with the corruption, which, besides the fact that it's a huge immorality, that's why there's no money for these people. Because there's so much corruption that they've started propaganda, money goes to corruption, it goes to propaganda, and here I'm asking you for 42 billion forints. And you guys are gonna look at them, get into their paperwork, because you know exactly how they're not gonna give this money to these people. Or is it? Do it. Be nice. I really deserve it. And the reason why this is a veterinary horse is because there are a lot of women working in this sector. There is a wage gap between women and men structurally in this country, and in the public sector 70-80 percent of our female partners work. For the 200,000 employees who haven't received a salary increase in ten years, 80 percent of them are women. It is therefore also a question of women's performance, knowledge and social appreciation whether this sector receives the wage increase or not. You owe women this money, not just public servants. What I can tell you is, take this opportunity, 20 seconds was not enough, which was intended for this question. Each Secretary of State should kindly stand up and tell us how the public sector's wage increase will be resolved. I ask my colleague, Márta Demeter, to hand over to the secretary of state the badge that I am wearing, which is about standing up for the public servants wherever we sit in this Hungarian parliament, regardless of party stand and not representing party political interests. Thank you for listening. [[Márta Demeter hands over a badge to Dr. Bence of Rétvári, Tibor Pogácsás and Benő Banai Péter. It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-02-21-24	Welcome, fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-02-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today's debate is about general practitioners and local governments. My State Secretary colleagues have said, and the pro-government speakers have said, what additional resources have been available in this area in recent years and what concrete progress we have been able to make. Why could we do that? Because the performance of the economy has made this possible in a sustainable way. And here, allow me to respond to what the opposition representatives have said from among the keynote speeches. Ms Agnes Kunhalmi called for sustainable growth and quoted the period 2003-2007-2013-2017. I am very pleased that you did this, because if we are talking about sustainable growth, then all economists know that sustainability means that growth is not coupled with a high deficit in public finances, an increase in public debt or a large external trade deficit. I must report, Congresswoman, that between 2003 and 2007, we had the highest or the second highest of the Member States of the European Union, and this was accompanied by a significant increase in public debt. I must report that in these years there was a deficit in the external trade balance. It was a classic twin-deficit situation. Typically, this is what they call unsustainable growth. I have to say that, in the period after 2013, you mentioned, the Hungarian economy was characterised by a low general government deficit and a surplus on the external trade balance. At the same time, this idea also goes on to see what economic growth has done in the past in an unsustainable way, coupled with an average decrease in the number of employees. Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there has been an increase in employment between 2003 and 2007. Let's see what happened after 2013 or 2010! There's a lot more people working now than before. And this leads to the statements made by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi and I think that they are grasping the essence of the two different economic policies; the essence of the economic policy that was before 2010 and that which was after 2010. Thus, during one period the number of employees did not increase, even when there was substantial economic growth and during the next period there was a significant increase in employment. That is why what you say to welfare expenditure, which includes unemployment expenditure, could have happened before 2010, the state spent a great deal of money. We are pleased that this type of expenditure, unemployment related expenditure in the welfare category, has been substantially reduced. This is a positive step forward. And, yes, we can look at the resources that health and education could have managed overall. I must report that, based on factual data, health and education expenditures increased not only nominally after 2010, but also in real terms. The government will report this item to Parliament in the framework of the closing accounts. Why was that change? Yes, mainly because the tax system has been reformed. This included a single-key property, which stimulates employment, a tax relief system, which encourages children to have children, but included, for example, a job protection action, in which we allowed low employer tax for low productivity groups, thus encouraging their employment. These were also needed to report a substantial increase in the number of employees in the international arena. This is a comprehensive framework within which, for example, the growing sources of health care, we can say that expenditure on basic care, including general medical funding, has also increased. With this, I will go on to what was said by Mr László Lukács, who spoke about general medical care. I have to say the figures here: GP budget expenditure is 77 percent higher in the 2018 budget than it was in 2010. Everyone should be reminded that cumulative inflation is 23.3% during this period. So we can't just talk about a nominal increase in expenditure. It is not just that expenditure has increased in real terms, but that these expenditures have increased significantly over inflation. And thank you, Mr President, for mentioning the other areas of basic care, because we can also actually say that we are seeing expenditures above inflation in this year's budget compared to 2010 for protective services, dental care and home care. Mr President, Mr President, you have drawn attention to the fact that there is a serious demographic problem in GPs. This problem was detected by the government in 2010 and it started the programmes described in detail by the Secretary of State of Rétvár, the application for residency as a general practitioner and the purchase of practice rights. But we also need to see, Member, that we are not talking about a demographic problem in an area, but, as Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi said, we are talking about a national problem. And we also need to see that, yes, in this area, I repeat, in addition to sustainable public finances, the government has also focused considerable resources on changing demographic trends. The already mentioned family tax relief leaves more than HUF 300 billion to the Hungarian families this year alone. I think that's what it took to increase the rate of 1.2 fertility to 1.5 on the basis of the latter statistics. A favorable trend has begun. We're a long way from 2 or 2.1, but we're still looking at a trend turn. [[11.10]] And I hope that if we can continue this economic policy and this family policy, this trend will continue. I repeat, in particular, in the field of general doctors, the government has taken concrete measures to address the demographic problems mentioned by you, and not only has it dealt with problems in one area, but it has also dealt with the demographic issue in a comprehensive manner with the government, the Parliament, and has taken substantial steps. As far as Mrs Bernadett Szél's findings are concerned, I think that she has made some statements that are factually incorrect. The Member said that the government has a debt to the entire Hungarian public sector. Then let's look at the numbers. Based on the data of the Statistics Office, 700,000 people work in the public sector in the order of magnitude. Of these 700 thousand, more than 550 thousand have been raised. And these wage increases were very significant wage increases, not a 50 percent wage increase in one area. The government doesn't care about people. In fact, as a person working for nearly 20 years in the public sector and as an economist, I have to say that in 2010-2011 the proposals we received from various international organisations were about reducing numbers and wages in the public sector. That was the starting position, we all know that. We know that the majority of EU Member States have reduced the number or wages of public sector workers or both. We chose another way. This other way has resulted in a substantial wage increase of more than 550 thousand of these 700 thousand key public sector employees, and, yes, we say that we will go forward in a responsible manner in line with the performance of the economy and continue to raise wages. Then let's see what happened in the local government area. The congresswoman said they're bleeding out the municipalities. It has been said several times that we have assumed a debt of over HUF 1300 billion. It has been said several times that this debt transfer has brought the financial balance of the municipal system in addition to structural measures. Then let me give you some specific numbers again. In 2010 the deficit of the local government system was well above HUF 200 billion, and unfortunately this was not a unique process, but the local government sector was characterised by a deficit throughout the previous years. After 2010, thanks to the debt transfer, the substantial changes, we see a positive municipal system year after year, and thanks to this financial situation, municipalities can raise wages for civil servants employed by them. Congresswoman, let's see how many municipal officials you've spoken to. The number of civil servants with local government employment is slightly higher than 28,000. More than half of this stock received a wage increase due to the financial situation already mentioned by the municipality, as this is what the municipalities can decide to do with factual treasury data. I propose that we place in the main context of the 700 thousand not all 14 thousand people, where the municipalities have not decided on a wage increase, although I repeat, they have the opportunity, and the municipalities have their own budget, to decide where and to what extent a wage increase will be made. As regards comprehensive government policies, I repeat, the government has chosen the way to try to raise wages in all areas in line with the growth of the economy and in line with its potential and to provide central assistance. I mentioned the figures that the majority of those employed in the public sector have already achieved this. It has created a situation, I think, between the government and Parliament, which has allowed wage increases to be made for the majority of those employed by them in the area of municipalities, and if we can continue with policy, then we will continue to raise wages. In this respect, I am optimistic about the coming years, and let me say that this optimism is not government optimism, but the optimism of the international organisations already mentioned. If we look at what the European Commission, the credit rating agencies, are saying about the Hungarian economy, then they say, yes, this path, which the Hungarian economy has achieved, is sustainable, this path can lead to an increase in value above the EU average, this track may be coupled with a low public deficit and falling public debt, this track may be coupled with an increase in the number of employees and the rise in real wages, and if the forecasts of these non-governmental organisations are confirmed, then I am sure that there will also be the possibility of further wage increases in different areas from central sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-26	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-02-21-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, However, it was just a matter of getting out of the bag in the speech of the lead speaker, since Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, the face of the campaign of the MSZP, did not miss the opportunity to make a loyalty speech for Brussels. He made it clear that they were not among those parties, of course, his former party partner, his former party president, Ildikó Lendvai, who would come to Brussels to represent the Hungarian interest, but they would always adjust the Hungarian interest to the European interest and not try to influence the European goals in accordance with the Hungarian interest. It is good to know to the voters that they are not primarily tailored to the interests of the Hungarian people, but to the various proposals received from abroad. We thank you for the professional proposals in the good news, because some of them have already been implemented, some of them we have dealt with ourselves, and we have also made them legal. We especially thank you for your praises, which show the results of recent years. However, I would warn everyone in the Hungarian Parliament and among the Hungarian electorate to let Lajos Simicska anywhere near the Hungarian social security fund, because that would be a very business approach in Hungarian health care, which I think we can all be warned about. The LMP didn't really talk about health, but I think that Minister of State Banai has made clear what progress the municipalities have made. I hope that this debate will not result in the fact that the LMP knows better than the Treasury how much the Treasury actually refers to Hungarian government officials. The difference between the governance of the previous period and the current governance, however, is that MEPs were then arguing about what they were taking away, where restrictions will be, but now we are talking about where people will receive a surplus, whether per sector, per municipality, consolidation of 1350 billion or other items, billions and ten billion, or wage increases for nurses, wage increases for health care workers, doctors, general practitioners. So we are not talking about where expenditure is reduced, we are talking about where we can increase it, and we are discussing the proportion of it here in Parliament. These are far more advantageous debates. We hope that we will never have to reverse the timeline and reopen the debates before 2010 with the actors before 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Interventions are now being made by the Members who have been notified. In this context, I would like to give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger for the first time.
u2018-02-21-29	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One thing I think we can agree on. Undoubtedly, we can never be satisfied with the situation of the municipalities, nor with the wages of those working there or those working in the public sector. I think there is always something to be done, but the question is what the direction is, and if you look at what has happened since 2010, you can see that we are going in that direction, and especially in the last three years, that it is not possible to remember for a long time that such significant wage increases have been made. There have been wage increases in law enforcement, health care, education, the public sector, as we have heard here. I'm sure the opposition doesn't like this number, but there were clear increases of over 500,000 out of 700,000. I can tell you that the number of local settlements has also been mentioned here in a lot of places, that about 50 percent of local governments have also raised wages. What I can tell you is that there was a wage increase in the largest settlement in my constituency, plus 10 percent for civil servants and local government employees. Obviously, more can be raised, obviously, if the situation improves, then the municipality will also be able to achieve a higher wage increase in the way that has been achieved in many places. How was this possible? As has been said here, precisely by taking over the debts of the municipalities after 2010 and, which is very important, especially in my constituency, where there are hundreds of settlements and especially smaller settlements, settlements not involved in debt consolidation received some HUF 1.2 billion. [[11.20]] This is a very large sum in small villages, given depending on the population. That's how they were able to carry out their most important tasks. I have to say, it's obvious that here too, the local government workers, the mayors, will never officially say that they're completely satisfied. On the other hand, if we look at the problems on the other hand, we can say that they have to face quite different problems than in 2010 or even in the years after 2010, when the financial situation of the municipalities has not yet recovered. They also benefit significantly from EU funds, precisely because demography is the most important issue in these municipalities. Our goal is to have as many children as possible in smaller villages, so the construction of kindergartens, the construction of nursery schools, can be said, for example, through TOP, the construction of medical clinics, for which there is a real need. But if we move at that pace, it can be said that in the years to come, medical clinics in all settlements will be renovated and equipped with appropriate instruments. So I can't sense that they're in some kind of crisis. There's work to be done. There's a program. Fidesz has a vision for municipalities, smaller municipalities and urban authorities. The road we've started so far has to continue. I am quite sure that, along with the situation of the settlements, the situation of the inhabitants, as the wages that have been paid so far, will improve significantly. There have been alarms here that there are local governments that have not been able to settle their finances, their accounts. I'm aware of that. I have to say, and perhaps you know the problems of small settlements better than those of those leading speakers, who have also shown that they do not know much about the lives of smaller settlements, but that is understandable, because they do not get there very much, there are such problems in smaller settlements, no doubt, but in general, where there is no notary or, I can say, there is no proper finance, it is not easy to find, there is always a reason in the past why they did not take them. I could talk about specific cases. However, local governments have every means to solve their problems, as we can see. Of course, there is a need for further development, as I said, to continue building infrastructure for a very important period of years, but first and foremost, to continue the programme in any programme that allows young people to find their future in smaller settlements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-21-30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2018-02-21-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It has also been mentioned today on the performance of the economy, which is also important in that regard, because everything we want to spend on health care, social spending and municipal funding can be based on economic growth. So let's talk a little bit about the numbers of the economy, all the more so, because the Secretary of State has brought up some statistical facts. In our view, there are serious problems with Hungarian economic growth. One serious problem is that, despite all its impressive numbers, the cold reality is that if we compare Hungarian economic growth with regional competitors, these figures do not seem to be the first, and we have to say that in terms of economic growth, we are at the end of our regional competitors if the government makes this comparison on the basis of Eurostat data. The other, and perhaps this is the bigger problem, is that economic growth is actually the growth of the few, the vast majority of the country, the vast majority of the institutions do not feel economic growth in their own pockets, their own institutional funding at all. But who can feel it? There are clear facts about this, as recent statistics have shown that in an incredibly short period of time several hundred, I believe, have become new rich in Hungary, and the wealth of a small, previously unknown layer has increased to an incredible extent. They've already appeared among the multimillionaires. They used to be modest entrepreneurs. If we ask these 500 people, about 500 entrepreneurs, who have become so incredibly rich in Hungary in such an unprecedented amount of time, what connects them, it is that they are the kisses of Fidesz. One of the main problems with economic growth is that from the opportunities, from the EU sources that provide one of the drivers of Hungarian economic growth, the best benefits are not for the economy as a whole, not for small businesses as a whole, not for entrepreneurs in general, but for people close to Fidesz, the kissers. Today, in Hungary, the sad fact is that only those with good government or Fidesz connections can run successfully in the tender, the others have no chance of doing so. I do not want to go into various corruption accusations here, but it is clear to the contrary that economic growth, the main beneficiary of EU funds, was a few hundred fidesz kissers, while most of the country does not feel this increase on its own skin at all. On the other hand, the sad truth is that while five hundred kissers suddenly got rich, in this incredibly well-functioning economy, news, statistical facts, that shops close in small villages. More and more the situation is that there is not enough demand in these villages for shops that would otherwise deliver local food to those living there to make a living from this modest demand. Because small entrepreneurs are among the social groups who have not been the winners of economic policy in recent years, but the losers, in two respects. Small businessmen feel the decline in demand that low-income people have in purchasing power on their skin. We know that those who have a lot in their bank accounts don't spend it, that beyond a certain border, you can't spend all the money they have on luxury. Their consumption will not increase, their savings will increase or their foreign luxuries may increase, their wealth will increase, but in the area of daily spending there is simply a level where consumption can no longer be increased. Unfortunately, there is a level in Hungary, a very large population of low-income people, who are forced to do nothing but spend all their earnings on clothes, food and rent, because they simply earn so little that by the end of the month, the daily expenses necessary for the family's livelihood are essentially consuming their money. One of the consequences of this is that demand has fallen dramatically in small settlements where the majority of residents are not NERs at all, they are not at all among the five hundred kissers, they have to make a living out of modest earnings, and this modest demand option does not allow for the consumption that the family needs on the one hand, on the other hand, which would be a source of livelihood and income for local entrepreneurs. The other blow to the same entrepreneurial class is that, where the situation of employees at minimum wage is typical, their wage costs have been greatly increased by the government over the last seven years. Instead of promoting government economic policy to small entrepreneurs, what is happening here is, as is done through the personal income tax system, that where there is the best number of entrepreneurs, the multinationals, the large entrepreneurs, you are giving in to the most, and where we are talking about the world of least-sized enterprises, otherwise the burden cannot be substantially reduced or even substantially increased where appropriate. I'll give you numbers for that. [[11.30]] But right in the beginning, it's such a serious fact. We said, as a criticism, that when you introduced the so-called one-key corporate tax, it would actually help big entrepreneurs, the multinationals. What has happened is that while there are hundreds of thousands of businesses in the country, you have reduced the corporate tax of a few hundred companies by about 10 percentage points out of the hundreds of thousands, the other hundreds of thousands of companies were only 1 percentage point, if at all this social class is capable of paying corporate tax. This is therefore the essence of your economic policy, your income policy: in the world of the economy, to support large enterprises, multinational companies through the tax system, the world of individuals, and in the world of individuals paying personal income tax, to give the highest benefits to the highest earners, while to small-time earners, rather than reducing their taxes, they increased their taxes. An example of the dramatic consequences of this is that this year's change in the minimum wage results in a net return of around HUF 7,000 from the employee, which is a welcome thing for his employer, which means an increase in labour costs of almost HUF 10,000. While we are talking about the increase in wages for employees, the sad truth is that the government is also winning, the government is earning, collecting taxes to a greater extent than net earnings are rising in the case of minimum wage earners. Just because we look at the statistical figures, there is an indicator in which Hungary is at the forefront of the EU countries, perhaps even among the OECD countries, and this is the magnitude of the minimum wage taxes. The only problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is not a pleasure, but a shame, to be at the forefront of this statistical number; it is a shame that, while the workers' poverty is spreading in Hungary, the lowest wages, the minimum wage earners, will be the most taxed in all Europe. It's quite simply a shame. And it wasn't from the sky, it wasn't from the crisis, it was an integral part of your policy, because you were the ones who introduced the minimum wage tax at all, because under socialist governments you didn't have to pay taxes after the minimum wage, one of your first measures in 2010 was to increase the minimum wage tax by 16 percent. This is quite simply a shame, and this is one of the decisive reasons why the already mentioned workers' poverty is spreading in the country. And speaking of minimum wage, I must also say that not only countries such as the Czech Republic and Slovakia are already ahead of us in terms of minimum wage, but also Romania. If we look at the purchasing value of the minimum wage: even the government itself admits that we are with Romania on the same level as the minimum wage, but the government does not add one thing that, because of the lower prices there, the purchasing power of the minimum wage is about 10 percent higher than in Hungary. These cold, otherwise recent statistical facts have come to light. Speaking of sovereign debt, let me say two sentences about that. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's published report the other day is a confession: the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has made it clear that the government has cosmeticized the data of the public debt. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] This battle against Eurostat has been lost by the government, and it has already been translated into its own numbers by the Hungarian National Bank. It's true, in silence, there was no big press conference on this, because it's not customary for you to talk about how people are being fooled. What is the origin of this scam? What's the difference? It is very simple to say that Eximbank as a public bank is now required to account for you as part of public finances. I am talking about the bank that finances the dark business of the kissers of Vajna, Garancsi and Rogán, among other things, with public funds. It is quite clear that these commitments, this loan portfolio, which is in this bank, are now officially calculated as part of the public finances, as recognised by the Hungarian National Bank, are part of the public debt, and therefore the downward trend of the public debt will rise. But what I would like to say to this is that I have to admit that in their own way they were clever, they have achieved at Eurostat that they will only officially admit this after the elections, and that is when the official HCSO statistics will follow it. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank was ahead of this, so I said that this was a confession, because based on Eurostat's method supported by a judicial decision, it accounts for this as part of public finances, and it began to publish real government debt data. Just one sentence to the public debt: let us not forget that when we talk about its factual decline, it was part of the fact that the private pension assets, which were taken from the people, were spent on this, at least in part. So this is also something that should not be proud of, not a reduction in the ratio of public debt from the power of the economy, but part of your private pension assets and your policy of reducing public debt. Overall, if we are talking about the economy, then yes, there is economic growth, but yes, this is not very muscular compared to our regional competitors, and yes, the most important feature of Hungarian economic growth is that it is felt by a few people, the kissers of Fidesz feel it in their pockets, most of the country, most of the institutions are left out. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-21-32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2018-02-21-33	Thank you for the floor. I regret that this is not the first time that Mr Bernadett Wind has been interested in a debate day as long as he speaks and asks for answers from several State Secretarys in a demanding voice. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Two of you here, talking to us?]] But he won't even wait. Nevertheless, I would like to say to him and to you, Mr President, that wages have been decided by the municipalities since 1990, and they have been operating autonomously, but the government has contributed significantly to increasing their margin of manoeuvre by taking over a debt of HUF,400 billion. And as far as the government is concerned, we believe that the negotiated path will continue to deliver the results in the future, so the government is open to all proposals in which the local authorities and representatives can agree. And I would also like to raise one more thing: if your party president's woman has become a purged, old and terrible place for the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, then why are you asking the Hungarian voters, the Hungarian citizens, to support her in working here? [[Erik Bánki: Shame!]] We believe this is the most important place in the country, and it is a great honor to work here for the Hungarian people. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] And by the way, if you say that you want to work here because you want to work for Hungary, then it is good that we know that you have an opinion about the country, you called it a wreck zone in your rating. Then, as regards the proposals made by the MSZP, we saw an interesting attempt by Congresswoman Kunhalmi to set left-wing governance as a success story. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Disprove it!]] and proposed alternative approaches and statistics. But you do not deny that during this period, during the period of eight years, public debt has increased from 50 to 80 percent; that unemployment has doubled; that state wealth has been reduced; that even the remaining companies have been tried to privatise; and that there has been a year when the Hungarian economy has grown by 7 percent in one year; and that other types of data have been added: in 2010, the number of marriages has reached a low point, which has increased by 40 percent since then. But I don't just want to talk about that, because you've spoken about the future, and I've been hit by an expression, and that's ancient sin. He said it was a prehistoric crime to introduce a single-key tax. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]] And he also said that that doesn't mean, of course, that they'd be thinking about raising their taxes. Unfortunately, this statement does not stand the test of time, nor does it stand the test of truth. Because you have a candidate for prime minister coming from a party, his name is Gergely Christmas, and this party has published a program recently, and there's a drastic tax increase in it. [[Lajos Korózs: Where?]] It clearly states that a 30-percent key would be introduced. [[Lajos Korózs: Oligarchs?]] Almost as high a sja-key [[Lajos Korózs: Matolcsy?]] they want to introduce it, as in the previous left-wing government. [[11.40]] Now, that was the system where it was much more worth living on welfare instead of work. It is no coincidence that half a million people did this in 2010. But the story doesn't stop here. Because your candidate for Prime Minister, with whom you are attending a lot of joint events these days, has an economic advisor, whom you introduced recently, and this economic advisor has clearly argued for the introduction of property tax. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're not listening!?]] In this regard, he also published a resolution entitled . Why would the introduction of a central property tax be beneficial and necessary? It's clear that you want a property tax. It also explains: at present, neither property nor movable property is subject to tax to the central budget. However, the domestic tax system could bear the central property tax. [[Lajos Korózs: Butcher, wealth ensemble! Mouse-slides!]] Look into this. This is your economic advisor's position. He also said that the introduction of property tax should be an integral part of the left-wing program. He said it, not us. But that's not all, because they'd reduce the proportion of private housing. Here, too, I would like to suggest a phrase, a statement:. If the direction of the necessary change should be formulated in a sentence, then we can say that the aim should be to reduce the proportion of private property within the housing stock. Here comes the point where we fully understand why you want it, why LMP announced that the family home support for new homes would be abolished immediately. So the thing is, we know little about the Left's plans for what they would do to the country, how they would move the country forward, but what we know is terrible. Because they can propose a drastic tax increase and a reduction in the proportion of private property. Now, that would be a significant step backwards in the past, and we certainly don't recommend it to the country. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2018-02-21-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Here, in the introduction to the debate day, we heard from state ministers and pro-government politicians how much the freedom of decision and management has increased in recent years, how much the burden has decreased, the increase in wages, the great prosperity. In fact, the last time we had to listen to the fact that the municipalities have been able to decide their employees' wages since 1990. In fact, let me add a small intervention in general with regard to a municipality only since December 2016 can they depart from the municipal civil servant salary fund. Until then, and since then, this is regulated by law. The basis and truth of all these things, which you have said, are highly questionable, so allow me to talk about reality now, to tell you what is really going on in Hungary. Let us begin by saying that, in fact, it is about the fact that the freedom of farming in the municipalities has been significantly reduced, the institutional framework in the municipalities has narrowed significantly, and, yes, wages have not increased, but have decreased significantly in terms of their value, their purchasing power. First, let me begin by expressing a reduction in farming leave. Firstly, there is the introduction of task funding. From 2011 onwards, this may have been one of the most significant measures of the new municipal law by introducing task funding instead of central normative ones. Which can no longer be transferred among themselves, and never cover actual expenditure, since it is the municipal law itself that states that interest income must always be maintained in individual municipalities. This must therefore be maintained as a source of income or a kind of expected own revenue. Thus, depending on the size of the settlement, the number of inhabitants and the capacity to tax, they support some percentage of the local government's tasks. Thus, what has happened to the municipalities is that they are practically constantly in financial turmoil and are never able to perform their duties perfectly, 100% and most appropriately. The second is the extension of the local tax system to local taxation. We see that, although there is a significant reduction in everything else, here the municipalities have been given considerable freedom, and we now know that we can introduce local tax in addition to local tax. This brings nothing more than what I said before: it is a replacement of certain underfundedness. He's deflecting the tension locally. In English: In order for a local government to have revenue, its own people, its own population, must be taxed significantly, so that it can carry out its tasks in a way but also in a way. For example, in order to raise civil servants' wages on the spot, they need to raise their own tax revenues. Therefore, the people should pay taxes so that local government officials can receive adequate wages. This is a very bad solution, and we consider it a very unfortunate and extremely unfair solution. On the other hand, we propose that the central norms be increased. Obviously, while maintaining strict accounting discipline, we would like to propose a reasonable transfer option and, precisely in order to give back management leave, we strongly recommend that 8 percent of the locally formed property and 100 percent of the vehicle tax be kept on the ground. But I must also mention the financing of rural development programmes as a problem, in addition to reducing farming freedom. We do know that there is a programme of modern cities, it is financed from domestic funds, but there are also TOP funds, which can be used for counties and county-righted cities. Only, unfortunately, of all these resources, the small settlements, the under-thousands, but let's just say, the settlements below the 2000s tend to stay out, which, by the way, cover about 75 percent of Hungary's total territorially. The resources listed above are also very much, let's face it, a kind of party financing. So the vassals divide the money among their own vassals. This is extremely unfair, and I must say it is a very harmful activity, because feudalism or feudalism put into feudalism should be decided by everyone, which keeps it most understandable to him, and forces a servitude on the leaders of small settlements, which will be passed on from generation to generation, and a very bad, very damaging process. On the other hand, we would like to create a programme of living countryside, which would like to bring back thousands of years of tradition of urban development. In English, we would like to talk about a fair, transparent and truly sound use of resources. It is unfortunate that 90 percent of the TOP resources have already been committed and thus spent. Thus, the freedom of choice of a future, say, Jobbik government, has been severely restricted. But I think there is, because there is room for manoeuvre in the current budget in a sense that can be corrected in a sense. This is also the problem of fines and rewards, which the current government now solves in an extremely childish manner, because the MAK, the government offices, the SAO, are both abusively and practically constantly harassing opposition-led cities and municipalities, and in many cases imposing significant fines of almost unbearable magnitude, while in other sources, local governments and city leaders are greatly rewarded. I think that there is a need to change this sick system, and compliance with the law, proper, transparent and sustainable management, can only be the only measure of which municipalities are fined, if they do not function properly, and which we reward or assist, if any, with, say, self-hit or exceptional municipal support. [[11.50]] It must also be said to narrow down the institutional framework, such as nationalisation of education. Just yesterday, this House decided to make 20 February a day of religious freedom in honor of the 1568 anniversary of Torda's religious peace. The document adopted by the Transylvanian orders at the time in 1568 did not only, as it was said yesterday, vote in favour of the free choice of priests, but also in favour of the free choice of teachers. For example, this is one of the foundations of the local government, for example, so that every settlement, every smaller or larger community, can decide for itself where they want to organise education. It is very regrettable that, while there was much agreement on the document adopted yesterday, it is precisely Article XXI of this document. The solution of the century, in Hungarian, is to give every local government the opportunity to decide for itself what educational system they want to maintain, and to do so, the state will give the settlements as much support as possible, yes, if necessary, to small settlements, which is not the case. So, in vain, we respect the great and serious tradition of our ancestors, if we ourselves do not want to change this into small change, but to solve it. We believe that it can and must be important to give local authorities the right to self-preservation, obviously as an opportunity, and I would add once again that the appropriate level of state aid must be added to this. Part of the nationalisation of the health system is also part of a significant reduction in the institutional framework, but this has already been discussed by my fellow Member László Lukács, so I do not want to explain this in particular. However, I would add that we also see a very strong centralisation in the social system. So now the provision of tasks is not organised at local level, but the local settlements of district settlements or joint municipal settlements are only allowed to organise this centrally, and the provision of tasks in Hungarian is taken as far away from the people again. Not to mention the small fact that Charles Czibere recently announced that the wages of social workers were raised by 62 percent. On the other hand, I have to say once again, the reality that a social worker who works in a small settlement recently reported is that I'm showing net two [[He's got two fingers.]] Your salary has increased by HUF. Because State Secretary Károly Czibere forgot to add that, in fact, he calculates that he has increased by this between 2013 and 2018. But what? It's not net wages for social workers, it's the difference in the guaranteed minimum wage. So these people's salary was not increased according to the pay table, but the guaranteed minimum wage. The career model that the current Fidesz government offers to workers in the social sphere, for example, is about getting a minimum salary for a lifetime, so they will receive a minimum pension in Hungarian after that, so they will have to live a minimum life overall. With regard to the institutional framework, I also have to say that the merger and closure of municipal and mayor offices is perhaps one of the most serious crimes of the Fidesz administration. We know it's the Mitzvah. the introduction of the right to establish and maintain an independent office has been removed from the municipalities of less than 2000 persons. In the past, there were notables in Hungary since 1873, but this was established on the basis of the principle of free association, not as an obligation of this kind. We believe that it would be necessary for a national government to establish a kind of public service, let us say, a municipal minimum and insist to the end that the living region can remain in Hungary. This requires, for example, local government offices, as one of the fundamental and perhaps one of the most important institutions of local community organisation. However, of course, there should be intellectuals in the villages who are represented by the teacher, kindergarten teacher, official, notary, priest and so on. And, of course, they should all have a kind of institution, a functioning institution. Because that's what makes a village livable and habitable. If we try to centralise these human public services in some way, put them in walking centres or headquarters, we will only remove the provision of tasks from people and empty these villages. Not everyone, Mr. Secretary of State, has a car to travel back and forth several times a day between a small town and a small settlement. As far as you finance interurban transport, for example, from the central budget, it follows that, technically, if someone wants to deal with a small town next door, it will take a day or two to turn around, because there is no bus to take it away and bring it back. So one day he leaves, takes a number, and the next day or the third day he goes out and does his job. Unfortunately, that is the case at the moment. I'm telling you, every big maintainer has a kind of mandatory loss relief that needs to be included in these big Volán companies, but the state gives a total of HUF 2 billion. That's ridiculously low. I would also like to mention the withdrawal and evacuation of municipal duties. When you created the district system, you took most of the tasks from the municipalities that are judged largely on a normative basis. All tasks which, in turn, require fairness or discretion have been left with the municipalities. As a result, the burden of responsibility has not actually been reduced in many respects, as in the case of tasks where more work contributes to a decision, the more local workers have to do. Here again, I must turn back to the wages of municipal civil servants. First of all, on the basis of the table 2.1.40 of STADAT, Mr Secretary of State Banai, I report with respect that 845 thousand people are employed in the state. I will translate this into Hungarian for you to understand. So there are civil servants, state officials and government officials, and there are also civil servants and workers who are working under the Labour Code. [[Péter Benő Banai's intervention:]] Yeah, there are. Very good. I can see you've read these signs yourself. So we're talking about a total of 845,000 people. Those who are considered civil servants or government officials are far from what you said. And yes, it was the IMF, let us say it: the IMF was the one who forced Hungary to do so in 2008 so that it would not be possible to raise that certain civil servant salary fund. To this day, you will continue to comply with this agreement in a servitude. Why? We showed the IMF the door a long time ago. I can't give you any other reasonable explanation, except that they simply don't want these people working in these small offices. So what you really want to tell these 18,000 people is that they're not needed there. This is a very, very bad and harmful direction. Mr. Secretary, you know perfectly well that if you wanted to, you could handle this. Let us say that Elios, as a new unit of fiscal fraud in Hungary, could be increased by HUF 13 billion, so two out of Elios could raise the wages of these people by 100%. Two from Elios! [[12.00]] In English, we are talking about money that is currently in the budget. This task, if you wanted it, could be solved. It is not a solution to pass this responsibility on to municipalities, because many small settlements cannot solve this problem. And just where it would be most necessary for these people to stay there, so that they do not move, that they also give the local intellectual base of that village, that community, from where these people are fleeing, and the most shameful thing is that a very large part of these people are not in their own jobs, but go, say, abroad, and do something completely different, not according to their qualifications. Mr State Secretary, the person who works in the service of the public, I think that he deserves all the respect because he serves the Hungarian people directly. So, yes, these people's wages must be settled as soon as possible. This situation can be resolved, with all due respect, and we will solve it. And finally, let me tell you one more thing, because civil servants are also working in this House. When we talk about municipal civil servants and their salary base, we must add their wages and their situation. Thank God this situation was partially resolved last year. I understand that those who work here are very grateful, very grateful, and that, just yesterday, there was a small task force that specifically expressed this thanks to me, among other things. I think that, in fact, perhaps the right attitude would be to thank them for their work. And let me do this this time, thank you very much to the employees of this House for letting me work here with you, among you, these past few years. I think that everyone here, either as a civil servant or as another employee, has done a very high level of work for our Members of Parliament, and I am very sorry that we have only managed to do so at the last time of the term, to solve what we should have done long before. This is what we were trying to push for, but, after all, the common success is that we have managed to achieve this by now. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-21-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-02-21-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll speak very briefly. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said numbers, so let us note that the numbers said by the congresswoman included the total number of people employed in the budget bodies and the number employed in public works. That's about 850 thousand people. If we open the door so wide, we can say that they had an absolute majority of wage increases. What the congresswoman is talking about should be recorded on the basis of the January 2018 Treasury data: 28 642 civil servants employed in municipalities, whose wages she is talking about. And let me just say that it is a bit controversial for me that the title of the debate day includes the future of the local government. Congresswoman talked about how the municipalities lost their rights, where the local government is. On the one hand, the municipalities are talking about their own sovereign decision, their right to make decisions, and on the other hand, they are talking about ensuring the full coverage of the wage increase that can be implemented by the municipalities by the central budget. We claim that the funding of the municipal system was put on a new path by the government in office after 2010. Our claim is that, according to this new path, debt consolidation, change in tasks, change in the financing of tasks are currently being managed by municipalities instead of by the previous typical and large deficit system. And our claim is that, in the framework of the sovereign decisions of the local government, in the new system, in more than half of the 28 600 and a few persons mentioned, the municipalities were able to make their own decisions by raising wages and making substantial, substantial wage increases. Some have a salary of over 60,000 forints, more than that. And our claim is that if we can maintain economic growth, then in a responsible manner, the central budget can provide support for future wage increases, while maintaining disciplined management, as we have seen so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-21-38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2018-02-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As a matter of discussion, I would first like to respond to the speech of State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, when he declared Bernadett Szél's keynote speech and part of the fact that the LMP would withdraw family support. That's not true! A State Secretary, even if he is a State Secretary of Propaganda, would be expected to know the opposition's agenda, at least not to say something that is completely contrary to it. Joining the previous topics, I would like to talk about the local government, as the future of the local government was one of the important topics of this debate. Unfortunately, there is very little mention of this local government here in Parliament, even though what fate awaits municipalities, local communities, is essential for the future of the countryside. We can see that there has been a long time of political consensus-based withdrawal of funds in the municipal sector. I say this withdrawal because it is based on a political public agreement, because it dates back decades, and in the light of the figures, it will obviously be rebutted by Secretary of State Banai, but I do not think he will be able to deny it when I repeat the claim that in 1990 there was a dispointment over 18 percent of the budget, there were municipalities, and today this number has fallen below 3 percent. So it is 3 percent of the budget that can be decided locally by the municipalities. Together with this reduction in resources, powers have been reduced, decision-making powers have been reduced and tasks have been greatly reduced. In mocking the idea of the 1990 local government, we can no longer talk about municipal autonomy. The principle of subsidiarity does not apply, at least much less. In recent years, we have come to the point of guardianship for the municipalities. They became areas of strong political influence and dependence. It is enough to look at the appearances of dozens of them these days, that the municipality that does not elect a pro-government representative will be put at a disadvantage in the constituency. This, on the one hand, is not true, because there were and there are many districts that can work. But you can see the government's intention to lead you to it. The intention of centralization and political dependence have really strengthened in recent years, during the Fidesz administration. Today, the government keeps municipalities on a short leash mainly with funding. Today there are 1500-1600 settlements with a lack of resources in Hungary, half of them. They don't have enough revenue to cover the cost of their mandatory tasks. In recent years, a number of changes and changes have been introduced that have significantly weakened local governments and strengthened central public institutions. For example, while wages were raised in district offices, local government civil servants still did not do so and were excluded from the public service career. Thus, the departure of professionals from the settlements to the cities began. It also shows the centralization of the fact that the programme "Modern Cities" - this large-scale so-called rural development programme - does not give the countryside access to small settlements. Together with domestic funding, 3600 billion forints were given to 23 county towns and county municipalities, while the villages received nothing from these funds, at least very little. Again, it is said that there is no need for small settlements, small settlements. After all this, I wouldn't be surprised if Fidesz-KDNP were given another mandate, eliminated the municipalities in the settlements of less than 2 thousand people, closed the offices. Plans for this have been launched many times. But even if it is not openly done by the government, the governments without resources, tasks and people will sooner or later end up in a position where the government can say, "Well, you are not able to perform the tasks." LMP considers these processes to be very dangerous and harmful. From the time we were founded, we considered the renewal of democracy to be the most important goal of which the municipalities are the key players. [[12.10]] Our vision of the future Hungary is about a system of social, economic and environmental sustainability and social participation. It follows from our principles the strengthening of autonomy in the local government and the establishment of a system of institutions for broad participation in society. We are thinking of a municipal system in which decisions are taken as close to the communities as possible, and where local governments are not executives held under central authority and guardianship, but factors of power with actual freedom of action and power shared with the government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-02-21-40	Thank you. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2018-02-21-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to reject Mr Csaba Demeter's statement of State Secretary [[Erik Bánki: Dumpster!]] who began by saying that Mr Bernadett Szél, having been here from the beginning of the debate and participated in the debate, went out before his speech. He'll tell you, and he'll be out of the gym right away. He hasn't come back since. How do you have a face like that? In addition to mentioning that we are here, four-sixths of our faction is here with Marta Demeter, while there were three Fidesz MPs in there. We have four-sixth and two percent of the Fidesz MEPs, who are even interested in this topic. [[Erik Bánki: It's not true! Eight, with the secretary of state...]] How dare you come up with these? Why wouldn't it be true? Yeah, 'cause I've had two more since then. Excuse me, my colleague Erik Bánki, since then two more come in, there are five in there... [[Erik Bánki: Eight...]] Five Members of Parliament are sitting in the benches from Fidesz, pretending to say that they care about the wages of the general medical system, the local government or even civil servants. Well, Fidesz-KDNP shows how important it is to him. Then the Secretary of State comes up with the fact that the government has nothing to do with the wages of the people working in the municipalities. How do you know that the claim to raise the salary base from HUF 38 650 to HUF 60,000 is not legally feasible? What is the Secretary of State talking about? Why would they send in a propagandaist who hasn't worked in a city council in his life? They're sending him into Parliament to take part in a debate he doesn't even know what they're talking about! He also began to say to my fellow Members in the MSZP that it is above 30 percent. Yeah, if you look at your billionaire layers, that's probably the solution. Your ancestors, the MSZMP, confiscated assets by means of a rule of law. The stolen assets that your tenants have acquired in the last eight years, with the assets of the rule of law, are likely to be made with financial taxes and property taxes... Of course, for those with a HUF 5 million income that you have raised your income and provided it from tender sources. So all I wanted before I made my point was to reject it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The statements of Secretary Csaba Demeter. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Erik Bánki: Dumpster, one more time...]] Whatever. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-02-21-42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs in two minutes.
u2018-02-21-43	Mr. Secretary. This number war that we've just been through, we've had a lot of fights between us. But I think you're one of those people who wants to do something for your country, and I'm sure you know what we're talking about. But for a moment, let me get back to the numbers. Yes, there are 33 thousand civil servants in total, of which 28,000 work in the municipalities, and of which 18,000 have not received any wage increases in the last 10 years. I would add that neither are those whose wages we wanted to raise last Christmas, such as those of the President of the Republic, such as those of the Ombudsman. They're civil servants, and they deserve to not be measured on the 38 650 salary bill. And one more thing. If you think this problem is so simple, as you said to us earlier, then tell me that government officials working at the county government office, who are now state officials, why are they still getting their government officials' wages? So it wasn't settled, their wages weren't raised, they're still getting their pay based on the 38 650 fund. If the Hungarian economy is doing so well, as you have just said, everything is so beautiful, everything is so good, Hungary is flourishing and building, then why is the Fidesz government so narrow with these people? Why don't you try to help them? The point is that you want these offices, these still functioning local government offices, to be directly empty, because you believe that these small settlements, the settlements below 2000 people, are practically not needed. And we do know that there is a plan, a vision, even though the Secretary of State denies it, which is clearly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's about not having elections here. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-02-21-44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We will return to the speakers that have been announced, and I will give the floor first to Mr Sándor Kovács.
u2018-02-21-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I think that today's debate may be an unfair end to the previous term, because, like the last four years, the opposition continues to accuse the government of all kinds of fraud, and we know that the measures we have taken are based on economic growth and not on credit, and on the work of Hungarian citizens that has enabled us to achieve this kind of economic growth. Secretary of State Banai, I think you're giving me facts that are hard to argue with. Allow me to highlight some of the things that are a bit my specialty, social policy benefits. I think that this government has also announced that it would like to help people who cannot solve their employment because of their own faults or other disadvantages instead of aid. We can also say that we are approaching the end of this so-called public employment, at least in our hope that it has achieved its goal, because there has now been a shortage of labour markets, so we should solve some new employment policy instruments, retraining and labour mobility in order for the economy to continue to grow. I would like to point out a little more about work instead of aid, from the benches of the MSZP, that we raised the minimum wage by tax. I respectfully report that the netting took place with the increase, because we think it is fair to be a useful member of the world of workers and society if everyone contributes to maintaining the economy with the minimum tax to contribute. There is nothing to be ashamed of in this regard, I think, when we talk about respect for work and access to work. Allow me to share one of my own experiences from this disadvantaged world of workers. I was recently in a nursing home in Győrtelek, where 18 Roma workers completed the course during which we went there in connection with the opportunities programme and many other programmes for catching up and creating opportunities. The institution for which they can be filled on the employee's side has 18 hiatuses. I report that each employee has signed a letter addressed to the director, regardless of colour, gender or origin, asking all 18 people to be recruited. So I think that such programmes make sense, that this type of social integration makes sense, because when we talk about Roma society or a broken layer, we are talking about people blessed with Christian norm in the Hungarian culture circle, and we have to turn the money into their integration, not think about how to let in workers who come in illegally and want to force us from the European Union. Everything shows that poverty is falling. Taking into account textbook provision, income poverty has decreased from 25% to 14 percent, making income equality below the EU average. I think that, compared to 2010, youth employment, where it was 60 per cent, has decreased greatly. , just as mentioned above, through the employment of Roma women. [[12.20]] A great many programmes could be listed in relation to Roma integration and the social inclusion of Roma. I think that, when we say those things, we said the debate and we had to vote on the budget, we voted with a good heart, and once again, cooperation based on work and based on real integration. We have launched several programmes on early school leaving for Roma girls, on the launch of the Roma College Network, such as the Cziffra Palace. I think we're doing just fine on the whole. But let me also say a few words to support the children of families in need. The number of free dining rooms has increased more than two and a half times, including an increase of 6 billion in children's meals during breaks, since now everyone who needs them gets them for free. Between 1 and 9 classes, textbooks are given to all children for free. I think that the children who are the future of society, our community future, should be used to devote the resources they deserve from the performance of the economy, economic growth, strict fiscal policy. And I really don't want to say very big words, but I have to mention once again that we should rather focus on our own reserves, the integration of disadvantaged groups, this is what we should be spending money on, not on accepting illegal immigrants, breaking down fences, because Hungary is the first. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2018-02-21-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that there are some things that need to be returned, and some things need to be settled after all. On the one hand, two statements from opposition speakers have been made and made continuously. One was that the government took away tasks from the municipalities, and the other was that the State did not take away tasks from the municipalities. By the way, I think that somewhere in the other statement made by Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs of Jobbik, there is a greater truth. When changing the division of tasks, to the greatest extent affected by the competence of the local government, public education, public acceptance of primary and secondary education, and acceptance of the reservation. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs said that she wanted a system of local governments to decide for themselves what educational system they operate and that each municipality could decide what educational system to operate. I think that is clearly the opinion of the government, but I also think that the educational experts think that this would create an absolutely tragic situation. There are no 3200 educational systems in the country. It's never been like this anyway. When the municipalities were the maintainers of the public education institutions, they carried out a state task, with the curricula set by the state, with the clock plans set by the state. So, basically, in a central education policy, municipalities appeared as maintainers, and as maintainers, from the mistakes of the governments of the last decades, they did not receive the resources needed to maintain, they always had to add 30 percent and 60 percent of their own income. The smaller the school was, the more they had to be replaced. This is precisely the budget difference which the municipalities could have held after changing the task, so what had to be spent on education remained in these municipalities, so it increased the margin of the budget in the municipalities. To claim that the municipalities were in a more difficult economic situation, that the resources of the municipalities had been taken away by the government after 2010, it was a complete mistake or a deliberate misdirection, since we have already talked about the fact that, on the one hand, the transfer of loans gave us the possibility of operating at all. The introduction of task funding and the change in the division of tasks ensure that municipalities can work. It is not debatable and we agree that further resources are needed for improvements, for the expansion of municipal infrastructure. Today, they are available to a large extent only in the form of tenders. By the way, they are very well available today in the TOP applications, even from small settlements, and are available regardless of party standing, but at the same time more and more domestic sources, such as the Ministry of the Interior, when small settlements have access to resources to solve their daily problems, to maintain and renovate their institutions. Nor is it true that it is party-bound. It is enough to return only by the end of last year, when 16-17 billion forints of funding were awarded to the settlements that submitted the tender that year, and even the smallest settlements could win up to 5, 15, 30 million forints for institution maintenance, institution renovation or road construction. It is not, therefore, that the government is withdrawing funds from the municipalities, and in particular it is not a matter of distinguishing the municipalities in any way according to party status or for any other reason. Returning to the civil servant's salary base: Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, is quite appropriate, since the municipalities have always been able to regulate the wages of their civil servants. Moreover, there is still a debate today between the strike trade union and the municipal interest associations, as seven out of the eight municipal interest associations say that they imagine a wage increase in such a way that it does not have a mandatory salary basis. They agree that, from 1 January 2017, the salary base can be determined by the municipalities themselves, but they see greater freedom to continue to support their employees with additional income, either by personal wages or by hijacking salaries, depending on the quality of their work. When the union talks about the strike of hundreds of local government offices, it is worth noting that these offices are partly larger offices, workers who are otherwise engaged in a strike, not in wages according to the payroll, but in wages significantly higher. This clearly indicates that this strike is much more political than actually related to wages. I would also like to emphasise once again that, unlike the trade union, municipal interest associations, with which we hold regular and formal reconciliation forums, can and can regularly say the municipal interest associations, which practically cover the entire municipal system in Hungary, their views on the municipal law and funding. Therefore, their view is clear that it is good that the municipalities themselves can decide on the level of the salary base, and that they are free to decide whether to hijack the wages of the workers or to fix the salary of the person, so I would like to make sure that this freedom is resolved. Of course, local government associations also want additional resources to be able to raise wages further, it is obvious. I think that is true in all cases. It would be good if we could provide as much resources as possible to increase wages. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2018-02-21-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Kovács of Fidesz has just spoken about catching up with the Roma. It seems that all of a sudden this has become very important, because the Prime Minister mentioned only one figure in his annual speech in education that the number of Roma students has doubled. This is a very welcome fact, but it may not fully describe the situation and difficulties of Hungarian education. You mentioned Cziffra Palace, Congressman Kovács. Well, it was a fancy palace for Flórian Farkas, it was a fancy palace, we heard quite a long story about how much money was whisked away, and how the Hungarian government had to put billions more into the fact that the many deficits that he managed to accumulate under Flórian Farkas led by this organization, how to deplete, cancel, of course, the taxpayers' money. I think that when you talk about Roma policy, you should start by first counting Florian Farkas, what he did with the resources to catch up with the Roma, and then talking about how many Roma have been helped. If these money had not been stolen, it would probably have been an even better situation, even more opportunities for these already disadvantaged people. [[12.30]] After that, the Member also said that from economic growth and strict fiscal policy, I literally wrote to myself because we have heard from you that you are not doing any strict fiscal policy, there are no restrictions, there have never been, no matter what, the economic growth I agree with should be spent as much as possible on education. I totally agree with that. Indeed, it would be good if economic growth were to be distributed more fairly by this government. It could also be said that a little less stadiums should be built and, say, more money should be spent on schools, or a little less stadiums should be built, and more money should be spent on health care. I mean, no one's ever healed in a stadium, as we all know, but in hospitals. That is why it really makes sense to talk about what this government is spending resources on. But that only occurred to me by your comment. What I wanted to offer to your attention. Not only Hungarian surveys, but international research shows the following. When asked if the country was going in the right direction, a survey by Ipsos Public Affairs said at the end of 2016 that 82 percent of Hungarians said that the country was going in the wrong direction. If everything is so beautiful, as the members of the government, the State Secretarys and Members are talking about it, then the question is why do Hungarian voters not perceive it. How can a country succeed while voters, the people living there, the Hungarian people do not feel that way, do they not? And when they're asked, he's saying the opposite. A successful nation can certainly not exist without successful citizens. Therefore, what you are talking about is, in many cases, quite certainly only government propaganda rather than a description of the real situation. I could say that what the Prime Minister said in the year-end review could have been a reality on a momentary planet, because that is not how Hungarian citizens experience it. In this survey, people listed 5 very important problems: what is the biggest problem for them in Hungary today. Now, surprisingly, health care is the first and most important problem for Hungarian people. Please, almost two thirds of respondents said that health care is the biggest problem they see. To add, it was a survey of 25 countries. Just to place Hungary's place and role in health care, the first of the 25 countries to see the biggest problem in health services was Hungary by 63 percent. The second is Poland by 51 percent, and the third is Brazil by 48 percent. Next, what people think is an extremely big problem in Hungary is political corruption. In Hungarian, 53 percent of voters said that for them the second most important problem they experience in this country is political corruption and its extent. I would add that Hungary is ranked 4th from 25 countries. Then the third is such a topic, which the Hungarian people said was a serious problem, poverty and social inequalities. So that there are injustices in Hungary, this is an unjust country. I would also like to say to you, the Szabolcs representative, that Hungary is also the first of the 25 countries in this respect. So 51 percent of people from 25 countries in Hungary said that poverty and social inequality are a major problem. So to talk about the fact that there is no real poverty in Hungary, and what a step you have taken in this area is simply a lie. Hungarian voters do not perceive this because, once again, the Hungarian people are most concerned about health and poverty in 25 countries. And the 5th thing that our fellow Fidesz Member also spoke about was education. In Hungarian, people said that the 5th most important problem for them, in which Hungary is going in the wrong direction, is the issue of education. After all, if this is how the Hungarian people see it, not the opposition, not opposition politicians in Parliament, but the Hungarian voters see it this way, then I think it makes sense to initiate such a debate day. Thank you to those opposition representatives who have signed this initiative, because there is a need for change in Hungary. There is a need for change because these areas need to be spent much more money over the next four years. If you are so proud of the state of the budget, of economic performance, then we must spend the resulting budget revenues on health, education, poverty eradication, social mobility and the elimination of inequalities, not, once again, on stadiums or other prestigious investments that do not even produce the results that the Prime Minister has expected of him. After all, we see that Hungarian football has not advanced in recent years, no matter how much money they pour into it. Therefore, we say, please, that this attitude must be reversed, that this attitude must be changed. We want to invest in humans. We think it's the right spending, the right priority is not to fill the pockets of multinational companies with money. Here it has been said many times how much you support national and Hungarian companies. I read an article the other day, and you spend at least twice or three times the amount of jobs you spend on a multinational company, as any socialist government would have done before. So while the double talk is about you building the national capital... Of course, if by that we mean Simicska earlier, now we mean Lorince Mészáros, Andy Vajna, Garancsi and these, then, of course, this is an understandable policy. True, one of your leadingideologists, András Lánczi, who is now the rector of the University of Economics, has given us a solution. In an interview, he somehow said that what the opposition or people think is corruption is actually a fundamental policy of Fidesz. Well, when you put it that way, of course, the original capital formation you started over for your own buddies. But what we see from the other side is that they are filling the pockets of multinational companies in order to create or keep jobs in Hungary. That's why we say we need to change. It is necessary to invest in education and education should not be treated as budget expenditure. It is important to pay attention to what interest representatives say, because they are the ones who see the problems of the system. You have to pay attention to the students, because they are the ones who, in a way, suffer all the difficulties and problems of this educational system. And, of course, attention must be paid to health care workers, because we have seen a number of problems in recent weeks alone that are amazing in the 21st century. In the century. The waiting lists, questions about the treatment of cancer patients, the situation of the paramedics. If we are talking about health care and hospitals, we may even have to talk about rats, where they might be running around in which hospital. The lack of medicine, the emigration of doctors, the unfilled state of GP practices; or the health standards that can be produced by this system vary depending on where we are going in the country, as there are also territorial differences. And today, we got to the point where you don't have to worry too much about your health, who has a lot of money, because it can use private health care. The third is, of course, the reduction and eradication of poverty. Here, in Hungary, Lőrinc Mészáros is an excellent example, or the prime minister's son-in-law is also an excellent example, or Tibor Kuna, whom you know better than TV viewers or those who listen to us, who have actually been able to raise billions of dollars from one year to the next, could be among the 100 richest people in the country in a year or two. There were those who could make huge leaps in this regard, the gasman of the nation, year after year. So you can see that some people are getting rich. And it is also true for Hungary that you are helping the privileged few, their own friends and friends. Now, they are getting very rich, and in fact they do not deal with the majority, those who live in difficult fates and difficult conditions in Hungary. Where it would be the job of the current Hungarian government, especially if it called itself a national government to reduce income differences, to reduce the differences between man and man, between Hungarian and Hungarian, to help the channels of ascension. On the one hand, of course, it has social policy instruments, on the other hand it has educational tools, and on the third it has health tools. That's why we say we have to change, we have to invest in people. This should not mean fidesz buddies, but education, health care and the social sphere, in which the Hungarian government should invest as much money as possible. [[12.40]] After all, the international examples also show that I should bring you Finland. Finland has always invested a great deal of money in education, research, development, even under the circumstances of the global economic crisis, insisting that these costs will not be reduced and that we can see where the Finnish education system has reached and how the Finnish economy is able to perform, the standard of living people live and, for example, how happy citizens live there, as opposed to what the Hungarian electorate has to suffer in many cases because of your governance. Therefore, we believe that the new priorities are necessary, that a fair Hungary must be rebuilt, that social democracy must be established in Hungary, which is certainly based on the four pillars of social democracy, which means the new republic, the rule of law, the system of brake balances, and the other three that I have just mentioned: education, health and the social sphere, the elimination of inequalities of opportunity, the creation of a fair Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-02-21-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2018-02-21-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am always stunned here in the first row when the MSZP fraction tries to criticize this government for health. I'm doing this because somehow I don't know how the question of credibility can even be affected. I worked in 2007 at a hospital that was split in half by the then MSZP government. I worked in a hospital where nearly 700 people had to be sent because the government at the time withdrew the support from the hospital. I worked in a hospital where the professional decision was not made by a professional gremlin, who might have to develop in the country and what might have to be improved, but at the end of a cavalry group meeting the beds were found for hospitals. I worked at the hospital where the day before April 1st we were told how many people should work after April 1st, because then they told us about the new OEP contract. After that, it is difficult to understand what the MSZP fraction is now saying in the face of health. What I can tell you is that before 2010, there have been serious trends: the rate of medical migration every year! He was on a growth path. Since 2010! It's dropping. Today, a third of my colleagues are leaving as many as were asked to work abroad in 2010. And if you're on the waiting list again, then again, I don't know why you have to go to this dead end. The thing is, no one dared to count the number of people on the waiting lists before 2010 because there was such chaos in health care. It was this government that dared to count the number of people on the waiting lists. I'm sure you all know that, although you're not proud of that, because we should be proud of that, that the number of patients waiting for surgery has dropped by a third. [[Attila Mesterházy: Did they die by then?]] It may be a sad fact, but if you look at any OECD statement today, then Hungary is on a platform in every waiting list, not in terms of length, but in terms of its shortness. So I have to think that they haven't read the OECD studies. I am pleased that they want to spend more and more money in health care; it is a pity that they did not do so before 2010. Every year before 2010, I'm sorry, not every year; I take it back, I'm sorry [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention.]] In order to avoid a complaint to the front of the house, healthcare expenditures were reduced in excess of GDP reductions in every year of the last three years before 2010. Since 2010, they have not been able to show such a year, and I can even tell you that the 2018 budget already has nearly 600 billion forints more health than it was in 2010. So I'd like to ask the MSZP fraction to remember what they did when you were on the wheel when you made your requests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes.
u2018-02-21-53	Dear Secretary of State, I know it bothers you that the opposition has the right to make comments. Imagine, the opposition has the right to make critical comments even if they have once been governed. Imagine you've been in government for eight years, governed by a two-thirds majority, and you promised health care a 400 percent wage increase. If we're gonna go back, I can bring you things like what the hell you guys are talking about. Where's the 400 percent raise? Where is the continuous consolidation and reduction of all hospitals so that in the future there will be no more and no more such expenditure for hospitals or debts? Please, just for today's news, not a typo: A two-for-forint wage increase was given to a nurse from the government. In other news, the cancer patients are being dragged to the trucker's CT in snowfall. The hospital has spoken:. The success story is that patients are being treated in a trucker's CT in the snow. You're doing the same thing. That's success? Read how many people are on the waiting list, why cancer patients didn't get their treatment with honor. [[The intervention of Lajos Korózs.]] Someone's gonna have to wait several hours in an emergency room, and then the poor patient dies. I understand you're looking at the statistics, but behind the statistics, there's a man, and there's a human destiny behind it. More modesty! All I am saying is that we should talk together about how more money and better care could be provided in health care, how it could be that Hungarian public health care is something that is world-class, because there are excellent doctors and there are excellent professionals. You're saying our government made a mistake? You made a mistake. Doesn't it belong to you? You're gonna stand up and tell me that after eight years, you guys have done everything perfectly in health care? Do you have a picture? ! Excuse me. Let's at least have some modesty. Tell me that you did it, and that didn't work, then I'll tell you that this is a correct comment. But that you stand up to what happened eight years ago, eight years ago, when there was a global economic crisis, please excuse me. And now I hear from the Secretary of State all the time how much money there is everywhere. Then why don't you spend it on it? Thank you very much.
u2018-02-21-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2018-02-21-55	Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you talk about health care, you are talking to people who have gone through the last seven years of humility, who have tried to keep the wreckage that you have left us alive. What I drew attention to were the facts in which we managed to make a difference with a lot of work, and these numbers cannot be taken away from us. I never claimed that the work had been done, and I only claimed that, compared to what we had received, we tried to go as far as our talents were concerned, and in this case, we do have results, which, of course, can be taken away from us. Once again, I would like to stress that I am in trouble when the MSZP fraction is making criticisms of us in this matter, because when they were on the government, they did something quite different than what you are talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We now return to the list of speakers that have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Czomba.
u2018-02-21-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then I will try to speak with due modesty about the facts, and I would like to comment primarily on today's topic in the field of economy and employment, although there is quite a lack of interest from those who, by the way, have initiated today's debate. My colleague before me referred here to a statistics for 2016 and explained whether the country was going in the right direction or not, and 82 percent said that it was not. Then I have the simple question of what this statistics would have shown in autumn 2009 or spring 2010. So all sorts of statistics can be given some kind of credit, but the elections are the ones that basically determine how a government has done its job. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2009 you were sneaking around with regard to employment and unemployment data in the 2010 elections because you left a huge disaster: 540 thousand registered jobseekers in the spring of 2010. Even if I consider that there was a crisis in 2008-2009, Ágnes Kunhalmi indicated it for the previous period, but here the Secretary of State has rightly referred to it, there was a year between 2004 and 2007 where employment was stagnated and unemployment increased by 4-5 percent of GDP. If there's anything you can say to dilettantism, that's it. [[12.50]] So what you did for government in those eight years was a disaster. [[Attila Mesterházy: This is about your 8 years!]] What I can tell you at the moment, and if you look at employment data and unemployment figures, the thing is that the regent government is putting this on top of the flag in the campaign, and the opposition is not able to pin this issue on the problem that is most common people. Why is that? This is because over the past four years and eight years, the Hungarian government has focused on work and work-based society. There have been very difficult periods, especially between 2010 and 2013, when employment and unemployment had to be treated with 0 percent GDP with relatively little money because there was so much money available that the average person would not be the only alternative to aid. We are now thanking God since 2016 and this is especially true that unemployment is no longer the fundamental problem in the competition sector, but labour shortages are also linked to today's public sector. This seems to be an interesting contrast or contradiction, but it is the reality that unemployment and labour shortages are present at the same time in the competitive sphere, and also in the public sector. This alone is not a problem, it is part of a natural process. Rather, in such a situation, when the competitive sphere can finally absorb people, the current government has an obligation to meet the needs of the workforce. Obviously, from the competitive sphere, the camp of the unemployed has also fallen significantly to God, and I do not want to give figures now, as has been said in a number of recent cases. It is a very important question that, in the next period, we look at whether there is a possibility from the public sector, when we look at the large numbers, compared to the Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, that the number and proportion of people employed in the public sector in the total number of employees are high, so the question is whether it is possible to change the number of people employed in the public sector. It is very important that we can help you and how we can help you find yourself in the competitive sector, and in previous years there have already been successful programmes. So it is very important, in the next period, as in previous years, to be able, in particular, to develop wages in the public sector, which I believe we have made four-fifths or three-quarters of, but rather four-fifths of, in recent years. Indeed, there is still a hiatus in a narrower area, and, as has been said by the secretary of state, the government is open to the fact that, in these matters, if the parties, which happens to be here, the municipalities and the representatives of interest can come with a common substance to the government's table, then the government will not shut down from this kind of negotiation. As far as wages are concerned, for a sentence, how they have evolved in recent years, everyone can see that yesterday the latest series of data was published by the HCSO, with a net average income of over HUF 200,000 in Hungary today. What my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy pressured me about whether the Szabolcsi and the Pest came out with two hundred thousand; indeed, a Szabolcsi man says that it is impossible, because in my environment the average salary is less than 130 thousand forints. So that there are differences within the country, that's definitely a fact. There's no doubt about it. Only at that time, my honourable fellow Member, the unemployment rate in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was 24%, and now it is 7.5 percent. What is apparent is that in many cases in the competition sector, where there is no possibility, there we gave a benefit of HUF 28 500 instead of HUF 54,000 or HUF 78,000, of which the most necessary things can be handled. So I say to my fellow Members, with the modesty, that we should acknowledge what results are in. Obviously, there is a task for the next government, that's good, because challenges move life forward. I trust that the results that have been shown in terms of both the economy and employment over the past period provide sufficient evidence that it is worth voting for the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-58	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2018-02-21-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as health is concerned, when you look around in health care, talk to health care workers, or have a life in health care for some reason, you see what's going on with health. To brag about it, I think, in the light of reality, Fidesz can't do that, or to point back after eight years of government, what it was before, while he hasn't dared to touch this area in the last eight years, I think it says everything, and it's really embarrassing. But I would go back to the local government, because we talked a lot about what happened, what Fidesz did. What I have not talked about, and I think it is very important what we would do; in a debate this must also be said. We want strong local communities, social participation, real self-government, because without them, the countryside will sooner or later be empty. We're running out of population. In rural settlements there is a great deal of migration both within the country and towards the rest of the country. It is unthinkable to stop this migration, if not to stop it, but to curb it without a municipal and rural development policy that strengthens the viability of settlements. We also write in our program: we restore the right to self-government, independent of the size of the settlements, and we would also like to establish this in the Fundamental Law. At both the level of legal and economic guarantees, we ensure that every village or small settlement has a full-time mayor and village manager with the necessary official background for managing the settlement. We provide competitive wages for those working in municipal offices. We are launching rural development programmes for local authorities involving local businesses that can create jobs and then increase the tax revenues of the state. There is also a need for accessible roads and a great deal of infrastructure. All of this, we think, is absolutely necessary to boost the countryside, and we want to strengthen the local government. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-21-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we're gonna have a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2018-02-21-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, My fellow Member Czomba's thoughts moved me to comment; if he were still here, I would tell him, but he is no longer here. His comment would have been nice if he had added to this excellent statistics the emigrants, who found our own jobs abroad, in Paris, London and Vienna, and not at home, he would have added the public workers, which are also financed from the state budget, or he would have added that a lot of the unemployed are suddenly driven out of the statistics, these people do not disappear, but simply lead them out of the statistics with various tricks. Secondly, it is also a serious problem that the competitive sector, which you referred to as the number of new jobs, was born among multinational companies, so unfortunately it was not the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, it was not the Hungarian national corporate sector that showed dynamics, but the mean multinational companies that also export to the European Union. So not only the opening of the East, but the opening of the South was not successful either, as trade in these relations has decreased, and trade has grown towards the European Union, which has been scolded a lot, and these multinational companies have been the engines of this. In that sense, I think there's a split-up between speech and talk and reality. The third would have been a more personal remark. If Secretary of State Czomba had done as well as he said, he'd probably still be Secretary of State, but I understand he was fired. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-21-62	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2018-02-21-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first reject the style of Attila Mesterházy's previous speech. A socialist MEP spoke about health in this style, but addressed to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, almost shouting, turning himself out of his claims, who was involved in making decisions that affected Hungarian citizens and Hungarian health. [[13.00]] They wanted to pay for Hungarian health care, to introduce a visitation fee, they saw business in everything. Remember that, for example, they wanted to turn Hungarian-owned, family-owned pharmacy into a business, to take it away, to play these drugstores for foreign business. Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, who is a doctor, hospital director, is asked to speak with him with more respect not only because he is sitting among us as Secretary of State, but because the basic rules require us to do so. So far, there has been a counter-example, such as my fellow Member Luke, Jobbik's representative, who has given him a perfectly correct and political comment on the subject of health, for example, and this is something to be debated about. You must have avoided or ignored my socialist fellow Members, who see only business in health care, the data that you have described as fact, Mr Secretary of State. He didn't say it as a boast, but as a fact, he described what was going on with the waiting lists, how much money we spent on hospital care, emergency services and so on. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-21-64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2018-02-21-65	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say with great respect that the Hungarian health system, which has been paid for for a very long time, in a demonstrable way, who has no money, is much more likely to die from an ordinary illness, trouble, and at family level that is equally true, so there would be plenty to process in this system. Indeed, this country is interested in professional solutions, which is why I regret that during the various debates on the subject, there is very little mention of one of the biggest attacks on Hungarians, and this is the institutional looting of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. I am very sorry that the government of the last eight years, the second and third Orbán governments, have institutionalised their contribution to the looting of Hungarians, have made a deal with the banks, instead of forinting at the market rate at the time of admission, in the case of these so-called contracts, thus contributing to the break-up of many families. In the same way, I regret that Hungary's biggest problem, with regard to population loss, has unfortunately fallen in the fight, and that the number of living births is again decreasing compared to the previous period. It should be recognised that it is not possible to solve this with only money and family support, that a home-building and rental-building programme is needed for a wide range of people. What is needed, however, is to move predictability and security into the life of Hungary, so that emigration, home creation can be resolved, emigration spiral slowed down, home creation will be stimulated. So I have to say, Jobbik has developed a program of survival and solutions. I would very much like professional debates to take place in the Hungarian Parliament. Over the last four years, I and my fellow Members have tried to come up with solutions and alternatives. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to serve my country and thank you in the Hungarian Parliament for the opportunity to speak, the opportunity to comment and the opportunities, and thank you to the Members of the House and all colleagues for making this possible over the last four years. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2018-02-21-66	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to announce that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, informed me that in the political debate, the group will renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group, so I would ask the staff to reschedule this timeframe. Allow me to say good-bye to you for this term. I wish everyone a fair campaign over the next two months. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-02-21-67	Welcome, good afternoon. We'll get back to work. Mr József Kovács, representative of Fidesz, will be the first speaker to be announced. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me try to reflect on a few thoughts for the health part of debate day. I believe that on the last day of Parliament there is absolutely no place in this House for us to end this parliamentary term impatiently, in an inadequate style, with insufficient respect and appreciation for each other's work. The aim of health care was to save general health care, and, in connection with President Gabriella Selmeczi, I, in the style of a political debate day, consider the words of Congressman Luke worthy of the walls of this House. General care cannot, of course, be ripped from the whole of healthcare. It is very important, and I fully agree that the most important element of health care today is basic care as a whole, especially general health care. Notary Ikotity referred to the pointing back. I do not think that there is a need to point back, but the facts need to be recalled in order to understand and understand the context of certain questions. In particular, with Mr Ónodi Secretary of State, we were both director-general of each institution, a large health institution at the time when 2007 reached us, and myself, if not to such an extent, I was forced to terminate the employment of more than 300 people. But I would like to say that at that time, a total of 6,000 health workers were on the streets, in 2007, mainly, mostly from the care sector and a lot of people from different background services. After that, they obviously sought employment after 2010, many tried to find employment in the social sphere, but those who really couldn't do that actually left the country, for example, many very well-trained Hungarian nurses. After that, I think, after 2010, that calling into account why these people took up work abroad is quite simply not elegant in the light of their history. Otherwise, the migration of nurses and working abroad is a much bigger problem in today's Hungarian health care than the issue of medical emigration, because in the meantime, many women have been able to make use of pension rights, who have left, and they have very difficult to realise their return under conditions of payment, and who have stayed here, and there are indeed problems in the care sector in the absence of adequate replacement training. At the time when we reached 2010, even though these reform ideas were not going to include a visitation fee, a daily allowance, any questions, we had to draw a balance on the Hungarian health care as a whole, namely hospital staff, hospital debt. In 2010, hospital debt was exactly 130 billion forints, so it was not possible to achieve the idea that they wanted with the transformation, and that is where we came to. In addition, the rescue service was in ruins, and at this time it can all be refuted numerically, but it is described and looked at from the health care system that approximately HUF 650 billion has been withdrawn. Of course, not enough or enough of this withdrawn amount, of all of it, of the E Fund and of the curative-preventive care was not enough or enough for general medical care. So the problem of general medical care didn't start after 2010. It is undoubtedly true that the age of GPs who were not even young at the time increased by exactly eight years between 2010-18, but we cannot achieve a halt to age. In contrast, after 2010, we tried to provide health resources as much as possible. [[13.10]] We had to start somewhere. The most important thing I agree with is the human resources in health care, the activities of medical, nursing and backup services. But environmental and infrastructure conditions are also very important. There was a process in which, in particular, the rural health care system was spent 500 billion forints in the framework of infrastructure developments, investments and tenders, and I believe that this provided a very high-quality opportunity for those working there, and especially for those using it. There was a very important problem and a shortage that is in progress. We had to realize that the Central Hungary region and Budapest provide supplies to some four million people, and this region has indeed suffered a very serious disadvantage. Therefore, the health development of the central region, Budapest and Budapest has started. It's in the process, everyone knows it. The government intends to provide HUF 700 billion from its own resources in the near future. I've just come to the matter of basic care. This is indeed a number one priority. This really needs to be confirmed. From January 2015, all GP and GP practices with territorial care obligations, I am not saying that they are very significant, but received a higher remuneration of 130 thousand HUF per month. In 2016, we provided an additional HUF 14.1 billion for the country as a whole to strengthen it, so we gave HUF 10 billion to GPs, pediatricians, and dentists working in primary care, and also 2 billion for the women and 100 million forints for school health care, which is also part of the basic care. 130,000 forints more. As of June 1, 2017, the total of each GP practice with a territorial supply obligation increased again by HUF 130 thousand. In the case of dentists, this continued to increase by HUF 50-50 thousand. In order to improve the quality of patient care and reduce shortages, the residency support programme was launched in 2011 to keep doctors at home. Because if we don't involve young people, residents, train them or teach them the profession, then, of course, they won't be able to work in GP practice later. In addition, a practice-shifting program has been introduced to try to have a positive impact on the coral. In 2017 an application for establishment was issued for dentists as well as general practitioners. Depending on how long the area covered by the aid has been vacant, between HUF 12 million and HUF 20 million could be won in the establishment proposal for job vacancies. Thanks to all these grants, along with what Mr Secretary of State said about the fact that more people coming back from abroad are doctors, the unfilled proportion of GP practices has decreased, 20 percent of previously unfilled jobs have been filled. I would also like to point out, in closing my speech, that in the 2018 budget there will be HUF 546 billion more for health than in the 2017 budget. Compared to 2009, we provide 70 percent more money for basic care, loading practices. We haven't done the job yet, but I think that we are on the right track, together with wage improvements and solving this issue, I very much hope that we will have confidence again in the future to continue working. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-21-69	Thank you very much. It is now up to the representative of the MSZP, his preliminary speaker, Mr Lajos Korózs.
u2018-02-21-70	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to start by saying that when we came up with this debate day initiative, it motivated us, at least I am sure, when I signed this sheet, that there is a matter here in which the common good should be kept in mind. A lot of people in this House know that I do not care so much about health, but usually about social affairs. From this point of view, I would like to approach this problem in this way, as there are a lot of overlaps in the border areas of the social care system and health care system, and they are linked in a lot of elements and places. When you look at the common good, I think a lot of people have a lot to do. There have been many times in history, from Plato to Pope Benedictine, what is common good. I drew a quote from the Caritas in veritate encyclical, where Pope Benedict says of the common good that, in addition to the good of the individual, there is a good that is connected to the community life of the people, and that is the common good. I listened to the speakers for 3-4 hours now. Quite a lot of people also know that I have quite a lot to apologize for the non-Hungarian editing of sentences with statistics. A lot of people have been talking about the quality and coverage of the GP system. As you wander the Internet, you inevitably stumble upon data that I would like to share with the House. According to the condition of 1 February 2018, there are 354 unfilled GP practice in Hungary. I said, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, In these settlements and places, of course, there is some kind of care, usually for an hour or two, the most important things are arranged here by replacements. They write prescriptions, treat acute illness, hand out referrals or medical records. But if we look at where these unfilled places are, it turns out that some 440 to 450 thousand people are not adequately provided with their general medical care. In the meantime, of course, I read that the pro-government press brought it, and now Chief Doctor Kovács mentioned how much money the government is making to solve these problems. I read a budget of HUF 2 billion of HUF 340 million, of which 52 GP practice and 37 dentists were created, but when I add everything up, it shows that there are four more unfilled practices than there were a year ago. Of course, I do not dispute the efforts, but that is just what the statistics show. If we put this on the map of Hungary, we can see that nearly a million people do not have adequate health care. Of course, I included not only general medical care, but also hospital and other options. True, I have also heard from the Secretary of State that nearly 500,000 people have solved their problems. Then it was likely that 1 million 500,000 people were having problems, and 500,000 of them managed to solve some of their problems. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I mentioned this data because it is obvious that if we are talking about nearly 200 so-called village mixed districts between 354 unfilled practices, we can also see that there are people living there who are probably unable to buy health services on the market. Here, for two sentences, I just have to comment on the fact that, over the last eight years, my dear friends, due to government measures, inequalities have grown radically in Hungary. [[13.20]] In 2010, the income of one million people living in the lowest income tenths was eight times the income of one million people living in the highest income tenths, and according to the latest statistics, ISH data increased tenfold, up 9.9 times as a result of government measures. And if we are already hitting the numbers, then I have also looked at the incomes, say, in 2010, and I would like to stress that the monthly income per capita in 2010 was 29 115 forints at the lowest rate of income, and by the end of 16 it rose to 30 985 forints. What does that mean, my dear friends? It means that there was an 11 percent increase in income here, but for this projected period inflation was 12 percent. I would like to emphasise who belongs to this social group: public workers, day laborers, mothers who are in need and pensioners. We're talking about a million people. Their situation has deteriorated in the last seven years. It is also apparent that, of course, the monthly income of people living in the highest income tenths rose to over HUF 305 thousand at the end of last year. It also shows, my dear friends, that there was a more than 30 percent increase than the richest, and then I will not talk about all the others that the statistics cannot see, can not take into account the hidden incomes. We would think that as a result of redistribution, where there is government intervention, for example in the award of social incomes, the government is taking measures to help people in the worst situation. But in the same way, I refer to the figures of the Central Statistical Office here not so long ago, a consolidated publication of household incomes, which clearly shows that a significant proportion of social income does not go where it is most needed, because it shows that people at the top of the income ladder receive much more social income in absolute terms than those at the bottom of the income ladder. With regard to income from the State, I have seen in this diagram [[He's presenting a document.]] I can't show you here, because I have a black and white printer, and it's clear here that if someone goes up to the KSH website, that while the poorest 4 million people in the first four tenths of their lives are stressed, the 4 million people below receive less help from the state than they were in 2010, the state's benefits increased by 42 percent in the case of the top 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear fellow Members, I also think that if the government has a job somewhere, then it certainly has a job in this area. I would like to mention where, in my view, there should be some kind of intervention in the border areas of health and the social sphere in the future. All the more so, because the Secretary of State was at the ministerial hearing, and I asked Minister where the fate of the chronic classes was. After all, Mr Secretary of State mentioned at a major medical conference nearly two years ago that it is likely that he will be out of the health care system with the cost of funding left in the health care sector and that it will be transferred to the social sphere. I only report, but obviously everyone knows that the social sphere cannot solve this problem alone and without funding. The Minister's reply was quite annihilated, because he said something about working on the problem, creating an institution of 150 seats out of 2.5 billion forints. Obviously he didn't mean it, or if this part is serious, then he didn't finish the sentence, Minister, because, to my knowledge, we are talking about 27-28 thousand people who are being placed in the chronic ward at the moment, and the solution to this problem can be solved with a financing cost of at least HUF 70-80 billion, and, of course, with a very serious organizational transformation. After all, organizational sociology makes it clear that when a unit is transferred to another management unit, very serious measures must be taken there. I now see that the system of public, municipal, ecclesiastical and civil services and market services should be rethinked in the future. I also believe that the system of home care and care should be made available and affordable for all in the future, and that these services should be provided in conjunction with health care at the level of primary prevention, healing, secondary prevention and rehabilitation, together with the GP system, continuously monitored. Where do the anomalies come from? First of all, in recent years, there has been an unpredictable legislative environment; here all governments have a responsibility, and I do not dispute that. The funding system in this area was uncertain. I stress that I am always talking about the border areas of health and social care systems. I consider it important to examine the need for care and social need, and I saw the unstable supply system as a problem, I saw as a problem the appreciation of the workers in the sector, the lack of information in the sector and often the lack of professional standards. What I have raised, therefore, is also the problem of the two supply systems. It is true that the health and social care systems have developed an independent system of care, based on different logic, but, as mentioned in the first point, what I mentioned, civil society, church, state and local government, and market maintainers should consider further action by involving them. I see that the capacity of care institutions is insufficient, that the system is both overloaded and under-carriage, that the social-health tasks in the care and care sector are not coordinated, and I also see that care tasks are not built on one another and that access to services and benefits is uneven. As a result, I think it is essential to approximate and harmonise the services of social and health care institutions in the future. The organisation of institutions and services in an integrated organisational form is inconvenient and I will return to the fact that the settlement of the fate of chronic classes also has to take place within a closed deadline. It seeks to strengthen home assistance and home care, and I think the profession is clear. Cooperation with civil, social and ecclesiastical organisations in the areas of care should be improved, and I believe that this should be done alongside the coordination of the state. The expected shift in the institutional model will, in my view, move primarily towards those who so-called need more care, and the point is, and I will not continue to stick, because I do not want to take away time from my fellow Members, and I think that there are some points of gravity that should be addressed. One thing is undisputed that there is a kind of cost sensitivity in the whole supply system, but good things can be done cheaper, or more precisely, if we do something cheaper, we can still do it right, and of course there is a quality sensitivity in this whole system to do things right, and then we should do the good things even better, so that we can get into the cash register. Thank you so much for listening. This is what I wanted to contribute to this debate day. Most likely, I will no longer speak in this four - year cycle. I've been happy for these four years, and I'll see you again. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-21-71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State has applied for a statement. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs has the floor. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2018-02-21-72	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I asked for the floor because the congressman spoke to me. I would like to add a few more details to this in order to see the full picture here in this House. I think that no one is arguing that the age of those working in primary care is increasing, but obviously we also need to add that this is the fact that we have to face throughout Europe. The age of doctors working in primary care in Germany is even worse than ours, so this is a general European trend, not just a Hungarian one. I think, yes, we may say that we have done little, but we have introduced two institutions that have not been done before. One is the establishment of establishment, which could be used as aid, and the other is the institution of the amounts available for the purchase of the practice. This did not work before, the operation of this institution started after 2010. It is true that we could not achieve a breakthrough for a while, but in 2017 the amount that could be applied for was doubled if someone wanted to settle in a new practice. This indeed worked so well that during the year we had to raise twice the framework that could be called down to the medical colleagues. So we were saying that we had to provide extra funds at the end of November, because the application was so successful. In fact, I can tell you that the amounts won in 2017 alone are more than the total of the previous three years. I think we're gonna have to go this way. Of course, you are right, Mr President, that this is not just a question of money, obviously the vision of basic supply must not only be expressed with money. He asked us if we wanted to deal with the fallen separately. Let me be proud that in Hungary there was a model experiment funded by a Swiss fund, where 24 practices were assembled into four communities of practice. I'm talking about very disadvantaged places, Berettyó new village, Jászapáti, Borsodnádasd and Heves. I have to say that both the WHO and the Swiss state have been satisfied with the results, so it is now possible to create another 60-70 communities this year. We also expect that areas that are otherwise unattractive to an individual general practitioner but can become attractive as a community, we hope that we can provide them with something that they could not have previously received. I think you also agree, Congressman, that there is a need for something completely different in Jászapáti and the V. district if we are talking about basic care. I do not know a uniform solution that would be appropriate in both places. What I can tell you is that the model experiment has gone well, and we would like to spread it on a voluntary basis in places where this method is worth living. Let me add, because the arithmetic was really correct, that there are nearly 200 of these 350 practices, which are empty, where there are no more independent practices because of the number of souls. Unfortunately, we had to face the fact that there was a general doctor who wanted to leave, he wanted to settle down in these places, and after the municipality had been better placed, he sent the young colleague, he refused to enter into a contract with him. I think that we will have a shared responsibility in the future so that such things cannot happen. Which also concerns me as EMMI and health care, which he referred to as chronic care. Today there are more than ten thousand chronic beds in Hungary, which I do not think is in the right place, because in Europe such long-term-care services, which require long treatment, are not used as part of the health care system, but are used as part of the social care system, which usually removes the burden from the health fund. The legislation of this is, by the way, ready and published, so the legislative framework for certain high-level care that allows us to operate this is accepted. We would like to create our first pilot project in North Hungary in another disadvantaged region. It is true that we may not have been too reckless, but we were certainly brave, for this was done. That's what's going on right now. We would like to test whether this is working, and if so, we would like to spread it, and you are right, we should not do this on 150 beds, but we should do this on eleven thousand beds. I think we're not far from each other from the point of view of purpose. Maybe we could have been faster, I can admit that, but the problem has been recognized and we've done something with it, I think it's quite certain. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-21-73	Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches by Members, with a two-minute speech. Congressman Márius Révész volunteered for two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-74	Thank you very much. Mr Korózs's comments were correct in several ways. Not as a politician, but as a sociologist, I would like to respond to some of your sentences. Congressman Korózs says that the benefits of the poorest have fallen. One or two things must be added in order to refine this claim. On the one hand, compared to 2010, there are 736 thousand employees, 736 thousand more people have jobs. Obviously, for them, let's say unemployment benefits are no longer payable or job-seeking support. Moreover, it is part of the truth that in the past these people were given jobless support or job-seeking support, and now they are receiving community service, and public work is also not accounted for where the Member said it would be. In addition, let me draw attention to the fact that in 2017 the minimum wage increase was one of the highest, 15 percent, which, by the way, helped the poorest groups a lot. Allow me to respond to income inequalities as well. It was true in many respects what the Member said, but let us not deny that Hungary is one of the countries with lower income inequality. Only in the Nordic countries, the Benelux countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, income inequalities are lower than in Hungary. The fact is that this is also the 2016 data, which is the most recent on this subject. By the way, due to the significant increase in the minimum wage in 2017, there is a good chance that income inequalities will also start to decline in Hungary in the following statistics. But I would point out once again that, according to official statistics, Hungary is one of the countries with lower income inequality.
u2018-02-21-75	Thank you very much. Mr Gergely Tapolczai, representative of the Fidesz, will be next as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-76	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about issues which are not closely related to the subject of today's debate, but which are still linked, because this topic concerns all aspects of life, and thus affects almost all sectors of public administration, and this is disability. This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities. On 16 March 1998, on the last sitting of the then term, Parliament adopted this law. From then on, we can expect that the current medical approach has been replaced by a human rights approach. We could also say that we have now considered disability as a task, so we have no longer tried to sweep this subject under the carpet, but we have seen disability as a task to be solved; but I could also say that this law can be seen as a change of regime and approach for people with disabilities. From this date on, we will count how the attitude of the state and society and its attitude towards the society of the disabled will change. I'm starting out on my own. I graduated from the university without a sign language interpretation, and now I can speak here in Parliament sky and earth is the difference. Or if you look at whether any of my friends asked their family member or neighbor 20 years ago to call the general doctor on the phone, and now, with the help of the contact video-based interpreter service, they can call the general doctor on a smartphone and the difference is the same. And this also applies to other disabled groups. This change and the expansion of services are primarily due to technological developments. This does not mean that we can sit back, we have done a lot of work so far, but we still have a lot of work to do in the future. [[13.40]] I would like to list some examples and numbers from recent years. Firstly, I would like to mention the support of the main partner organisations, which are also members of the National Disability Council. The National Disability Council has been operating since 1999, and is working as an advisory body of the government, with continuous dialogue between the government and partner organisations. The annual budget support for these organisations increased by 5 percent compared to 2017, but we can see even more changes if I say that in 2010 there was a total of HUF 521 million in support of advocacy organisations, and in 2018 there was HUF 1 billion in 16 million. The second largest grant was launched last year, in the framework of the EFOP competition, as a tender scheme called the development of infocommunication-based distance services for everyday lives of people with disabilities. The total amount of this is HUF 4 billion, and this is supported by organizations such as the National Association of Deafs and Hearers, the National Association of Motionless, the National Federation of Blind and Weak Seers, the National Association of Autists and the Association of People with Mental Disabilities and the Aphasia Association. I would like to highlight another project, which also operates in a unique structure in the world, a project implemented in cooperation with the National Association of Deafs and Nagyodhalók and the National Federation of Blinds and Sightseeers, a joint IT development that provides video-based interpretation services for hearing-damaged people, and a so-called "Downset" service for visually impaired people, which facilitates the self-living of blind and visually impaired people. I note in brackets that, compared to Hungary's annual budget, the support for people with disabilities is still small, and here it is worth paying attention to the proportions of how these subsidies have changed. For example, support for the training of aid dogs has doubled in recent years. The amount for parental support services was HUF 5 million in 2010, with an amount of EUR 30 million in 2018. The amount for basic rehabilitation services is HUF 100 million this year, plus HUF 20 million, which can be used to train rehabilitation teachers. A very important programme is the so-called CarPlus programme, which provides an additional opportunity for people with reduced mobility who are unable to take advantage of the potential car and because they need a type of vehicle that needs to be adapted to be used for them. The government will provide HUF 50 million in support of this, or HUF 50 million in transfer this year, in order to give as many people as possible access to this transformation aid. It is also important to mention the Network of Disability Coordinators. The National Disability Programme requires the establishment of services and a network to help students with disabilities in higher education, and the establishment of such services is still ongoing, and national meetings are already being organised for coordinators. Further steps are expected in the coming years, such as the launch of a model programme that will develop the audio-arration service for the blind and weak-sighted, with the aim of ensuring equal access to media services. This includes the subject of subtitles for hearing impaired people. I could list the different projects and programmes for a long time, but it was also a very important step that the government set up the Inter-Professional Committee on Disability in 2015, which has been a deficiency body since then, because there has not been close cooperation between the different sectors in previous years. This body carries out this task and therefore monitors and facilitates the implementation of the national disability programme and the implementation of the action plan. Thus, cross-sectoral cooperation is a way of achieving them much more effectively. At the end of my speech, I would also like to thank in recent years for the help of colleagues who have helped me with my work, from professional staff to the office commissioners, from interpreters to my fellow Members. Thank you all for your cooperation and patience, and thank you for allowing me to participate in Parliament's work in the last term. I trust I can continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative of the MSZP, Mr László Varga, Deputy Group Leader, is next. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here as an individual representative of the 2nd constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. I have represented the people who have lived here in Parliament for the past four years, and I really hope to gain their trust on 8 April and to represent them for another four years. I am telling you this because it is a constituencies with a wide variety of types of settlements, in this constituency there is a western part of Miskolc, the Győr gate, part of the city centre, Diósgyőr and many periphery. Here is a small town with about 2800 inhabitants, Sajóbábony, and four smaller settlements, four villages, Varbo, Parasnya, Radostyán and Sajólászlófalva. I have looked at the problems that have been raised here, very specifically, from the perspective of the people who have lived here in the last few years, and I have been struggling to solve these problems here for the last four years, and I would like to say that many people have missed the specifics on the government side, and I would like to say these specifics from the perspective of the people here. The first issue on which this debate is about and there has been a lot of mention is about health and health, which is why I am glad that Mr State Secretary is here. Many people have talked about the amazing conditions, the deterioration that has occurred or is happening in certain health institutions. Many have also talked about the victim-made work of health workers, and we should all thank them here. But many have told me that they do have low wages to this day, and they have not received nearly the wages you promised them. [[13.50]] If there is an emigration of health workers, the lack of skilled workers, East Hungary, North Hungary. This area is also the same, so Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county as a whole. I would like to look at the health problems of the people of my constituency from three very concrete points of view. First of all, a year ago, I'm pretty sure you created a super hospital in Miskolc about a year ago. This has been achieved without any new developments, and only four health institutions operating on state-owned sites have been merged. These are two institutions maintained by the former county government, the County Hospital and St. Francis Hospital, as well as two former city institutions, the Semmelweis Hospital and the Iron Factory and Diósgyőr site. These were combined and they went to work very quickly, unfortunately not in the right direction, because the last year has been loud with a lot of scandals and problems about the new super-hospital. Many long-standing, very serious professionals left the health care facility, including a very, very serious pediatrician. They struggle very seriously with the shortage of workers, and the residents of the city can feel the length of waiting lists or the enormous enlistment of specialist orders. In addition, it has not been long since the director of this super-hospital was replaced a few weeks ago, who has spoken about problematic contracts and problematic cases in several of his statements since then. The question arises as to why he had to be replaced if he had put very serious work into exploring them. So what I can tell you is that the super-hospital has been a success story for the past year, and the health care that has been fully covered by the state is not a success story in Miskolc. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because let's look at this story from the perspective of the people of Diósgyőr, so from the perspective of the people in the west of Miskolc and from the perspective of the people in the surrounding settlements. I can say that, since 2010, all three levels of health care have deteriorated in this region. It began with the fact that during the previous cycle, during the administration of Fidesz and the management of Fidesz, adult general health care was terminated in Diósgyőr. We protested, we collected signatures, the residents of the area were outraged, yet they did not change their decision that only one facility, downtown, would have a general medical emergency. Second of all, they've virtually emptied the iron factory stk today, either eliminated most of the specialties for the people living here, or moved them downtown to the Csabai Gate site. This is a clear reduction and deterioration in the quality of care for the people of Diósgyőr, even if some of the specialist orders have been transferred to the Diósgyőr facility, the hospital in Diósgyőr, since the hospital in Diósgyőr, as an active care facility, has been virtually evacuated in recent years. So it can be said that this site is a clear loser of the super-hospital project. So I can say that, unfortunately, despite many of my struggles, your government in Diosgyőr has shut down health care. It also proves this, and this is also a specific number, specific statistics, which I would like to say as a third on this subject, that, according to statistical indicators comparing the regions of the European Union, North Hungary is ranked 262th among the regions of the European Union in the healthcare parameter. There are 263 regions in the European Union, so it is the last. Before saying, in reply, that these are certain old processes, I would like to say that these are 2016 figures, and they compared this last with the 2013 numbers. The competitiveness of our region has clearly deteriorated, including the health situation. Therefore, it is not for nothing that, despite the victimless work of health workers, conditions have deteriorated and we do not demand that this change, that health in the region should improve. That is why we say that we need a change of government in order for this to happen. Moving to another important area that affects my constituency and, of course, the whole country: this is the issue of education. There have also been very serious restructurings in education, not only in the last four years, but also in the previous cycle. In practice, municipalities have lost their role as institution-supporters, with the exception of kindergartens. Miskolc, although a school town, does not maintain primary schools, does not maintain high schools. This causes very serious problems in everyday life, and takes the issue of schools away from the decision of the representatives elected locally by the people, and the citizens of the city cannot make a substantive contribution to what kind of professional work should take place and under what conditions in these institutions. What I can tell you is that in recent years, the state-owned educational institution has been a clear loser of your governance. What I can say is that there have been a number of development policy actions in recent years that have, where appropriate, supported church educational institutions. Let me tell you that in my constituency, for example, the Reformed primary school in Parasnya is unfortunately not, which would be very necessary, since this primary school has a regional role. But it was also evident, for example, that they had moved towards church education in the allocation of year-end remnants. Not against this, but I would like to argue in favour of public education, when I say that we should not distinguish between children and children, receive the same conditions for children studying in the public institution system, and let the municipalities, in particular the schools from which they have taken away these institutions, so that they can re-establish their schools. I am not talking about the fact that in a small settlement or in a more difficult district, it is not important to have a state reservation, where this creates difficulties for the municipalities, but I am definitely saying and arguing that in school cities it must be possible for municipalities to become maintainers again. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the pedagogical demonstrations started in the past years from Miskolc and that the open letter of the brave teachers of Herman Ottó High School showed what conditions there were in Hungarian education. Third, I would like to talk about an important issue concerning municipalities and residents, the issue of improvements. Development policy has grown further and further away from local authorities in recent years. Between 2010 and 2014, I observed in my constituency that, in fact, most of the investments started before 2010 and signed at that time were completed, with some exceptions, in this cycle. I would like to mention such ideas concerning the constituency: the renovation of the Diósgyőr Castle, which was linked to the renovation of the Lillafüred dangling garden, which was a project, a project before 2010, then the renovation of the main street in Miskolc, and I would like to mention a project that Fidesz wanted to stop before 2010, and now perhaps the proudest, this electric project in Miskolc, because we have new trams on a restored track. This is an important result, but this source also arrived in Miskolc before 2010, then took place in the contract, and the construction was also started. No new investments were made at the time. I was very curious as an individual representative to see how the next term would begin. I was there when, in the presence of several ministers of the Prime Minister, the first to announce in Miskolc the "Modern Cities" programme, and I was very hoping that this could bring new developments to the city. It's been practically three years now, and I can tell you that there hasn't been a single slash in the city in any of these developments. I can say that with regard to the bath in Tapolca, so with regard to the continuation of the investment in the beach, but nothing happened with regard to the new steps of the renovation of the castle, but the very important beach in Diósgyőr has been closed here for four years and will not be reopened. The M30 finish was promised for the 2018-19 round to be connected to Košice. It was built a mile and a half from it, even though it is not the promise made to the Miskolcs in the first place, but it must be built as part of an international treaty, the Via Carpatia Convention. Even though they promised a Y-bridge or an intermodal node, none of these can be seen near the Tisza station, even though these were promised eight years ago. [[14.00]] I tried to make constructive suggestions, put them on the table. It was like this to include the renovation of the Iron Factory Hospital among these projects, the renovation of the Castle Bath, so the renovation of the beach in Diósgyőr. With regard to the eradication of air pollution, which is a huge problem in the region, there are also innovative proposals through the very serious work of the University of Miskolc. I am sorry that these have not been included in the supported projects of the Modern Cities programme, as have the DAM rehabilitation, the rehabilitation of the DAM area. But I'm gonna keep fighting for these. There is also a need for a change of government in order to achieve this. In connection with the program, we received a Minister of Promises in the person of Lajos Kósa, who promised the same things once more, a long month ago. I understand that, but what I can see is that at the height of autumn, about 10 percent was paid to the municipalities. As regards small settlements, there is a rumor, and it has been read in quite a number of places that if you continue to govern them, the local government in today's sense will be abolished in settlements of less than 5,000 people, and a kind of regime will be put in place. I think this would be unworthy, and in fact it would only make the fate of the institutions there dependent on the government's favor, the lives of the people, and the development of the settlements even more vulnerable to the government. So this is definitely rejected. I would like to say once again, in summary, that I have said concrete things about the specific issues that have been raised here today, and these cases look like this in particular from the point of view of the people in my constituency. I am very proud that I have been able to represent them here for the last four years, and I very much hope that I will win their trust again, and I will continue to fight for them. However, I must now state that Miskolc and his region have been worse off with your governance in the last eight years. That is why there is a need for change in the country. That is why we need a change of government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-02-21-79	Thank you very much. Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-80	Dear Parliament, Listening to opposition representatives here in Parliament or even in the campaign, it is a miracle that there is even a Fidesz voter at all, because you think the whole country has gone in the wrong direction, is in complete bankruptcy, and there are terrible prospects for us anyway. The problem is that there are certain polls, they usually measure a lot of things, and it seems that although you have convinced each other of this a lot, so many times here I feel that you almost believe what you're saying, but the voters have not been convinced. However, this is not entirely a coincidence, because the fact is that if we look at, say, how the consumer confidence index stands in Hungary today, so I am not talking about party politics, then we see that it is at its historic peak or near its historic peak. Ever since it was measured in Hungary, it hasn't been this high. And let me add two things to that. One is that this consumer confidence index is measured by the Institute of Economic Research, and it is difficult to accuse the GKI of being biased in our direction. The fact is that the GKI usually outlines a more pessimistic picture in its forecasts and prognosis during our governance than is actually happening. The other is that the consumer confidence index is worth even calculating that they are making incredible efforts to make society's vision as negative as possible. So you probably came up with a punch in the stomach, that from time to time the GKI's consumer confidence index appears, and it turns out that since the time it has been measured, Hungarian families have not seen their future so optimisticly. But the thing is, not only the consumer, but also the business confidence index is close to its current peak. I don't want to say that this number is high in international comparison, because it's not high, it's low. But the thing is, the trend is clearly positive, and it actually seems to be in an incredible contradiction with what you are otherwise communicating. But why does the consumer confidence index keep you here? Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that since the change of regime in Hungary, there has not been an example of an increase in real wages of 11 per cent in a year in a country. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at consumption, consumption has increased by 4.8 percent both last year and the year before. But if we remove food, consumption for non-food consumer products increased by 8.3 percent in 2017. Are you saying this country is going in the wrong direction? They're completely wrong. That's why they're keeping me where they are now. Yeah, a few more of these interesting figures. In 2015, 77 179 new cars were sold, two years later, 116 265 in 2017, a 50 percent increase of 50,6 percent. But we can see, say, the construction of new apartments. There is also a 50 percent increase in two years. We can see how real estate prices are going, there's a significant increase there. So we can line up the data that is in complete contradiction with what you're saying. It's worth looking at the poverty rate. You have repeatedly said how the number of poor people in Hungary is developing. Allow me to give you specific information on this, too. In 2010, the outstanding payment of loans or housing was 24.4 percent of the people. Today, this figure has dropped to 15.7 percent. The lack of funding for unexpected expenditure was 74,4 percent in 2010, so almost three-quarters of society said that they could not cover unexpected expenditure. From 74,4 percent to 31,4 percent, much less than half. The absence of a one-week stay per year was said by 66 percent in 2010, 48 percent in 2016. Lack of meat consumption every two days: 29,2 percent could not afford this, this figure has now fallen to 16.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, This does not mean that we are doing very well, because in a sense, these numbers are still disappointing. But these are 2016 figures, and we have a good chance to think that these numbers improved even further and significantly in 2017, and we can be sure that they will continue to do so in 2018. KSH has such a definition of a serious material deprive rate. This was 23.4 per cent in 2010 and decreased to 14.5 per cent in 2016. The fact is, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that poverty is not growing today in Hungary, but is decreasing at a very rapid and, moreover, constantly. If we translate these ratios numerically, this means that since 2010, the number of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased by 900 thousand, again, since 2010. We can safely say that the improvement is extremely significant, but far from enough, because there are still a lot of people in this area. But if we look at the economic outlook, we have good reason to believe that these numbers will improve in the future. It would be possible to respond to the comments of each of my fellow opposition Members. Here, too, Congressman Varga was very sad about the state of health in Miskolc. But here we are telling you that the hospital in Miskolc has been one of the biggest winners in recent years. The government has spent more than HUF 20 billion in recent years on developing the hospital in Miskolc, honourable Member, more than HUF 20 billion. If you were to make a slightly correct comment, let's just say that might have been worth mentioning. It can also be said that more than HUF 500 billion has been spent by the government on the development of rural hospitals in recent years, mainly with EU money. So we here in Budapest are a little envious about the state of hospitals in the countryside, and we really hope that Budapest will take place in this area sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that Hungary has made a good career in recent years, and clearly poverty has fallen, and we have made a lot of progress in many areas. [[14.10]] People's faith in the future, their confidence index, certainly supports that. Give me one more important stats. I believe that one of the most important results is that the number of people who married has increased by 50 percent compared to 2010, which is also one of the appearances of faith in the future. I am sure that if we can go on this path, these numbers will improve even further in the coming years. We'd like to go on and continue this journey. Hungary is the first for us, and we think it would be particularly important for Hungary to be able to continue on this path in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-81	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The list of speakers announced ended with the previous speech. We now have a regular speaker, Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, who has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-82	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would recommend only to the attention of Congressman Révész, I think it is a news from a day ago that 2.5 million people may be terrified in our country, and poverty may strike them at any time. This is Eurostat statistics in different countries. At present, 18.4 percent of people living in large cities in Hungary, 26,6 percent of those living in smaller cities or agglomerations, and 31,3 percent of those living in the countryside are threatened with poverty or social exclusion, according to Eurostat data, according to the European Commission's Directorate-General for Statistics. This statistic covers a large number of people, a total of 2 million 514 thousand, which is much more than one in four Hungarian citizens living in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So about this success propaganda, I think that if poverty is reduced at such a huge rate among ten million Hungarian citizens, there is still a lot to be done in this area, Congressman, to make progress in this area. Since we had been accused of having only the opposition in health care, and how dare we speak, I quickly checked to see if Congresswoman Selmeczi had graduated from medical school. I was reassured that I was not, because neither am I, and so should I, however, be able to speak to the health debate, so that not only those who worked in the hospital or who graduated as doctors can speak to it. Let me give you two analyses here in the debate that the Secretary of State knows so that they cannot accuse us of being the dissatisfied ones here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Health performance assessment is a common practice in many countries around the world, giving a fair picture through qualitative indicators, which is a basis for intervention by decision-makers. For the first time in Hungary, the comprehensive report has been prepared with the coordination of the State Health Care Center. The material compiled by the Ministry's staff uses 76 indicators for the analysis of the period 2013-2015 and presents serious findings on the supply system, its accessibility, funding, public health and life prospects. Although the health status of the Hungarian population is improving, there are large differences within the country, and the average remains below the level of most Member States in the European Union, and the assessment of access to healthcare often causes a significant financial burden to less wealthy households. We have grown behind the EU28 average in several high-profile, heavy-duty deaths, including death due to circulatory system diseases, death related to a number of tumour types among women, cervical, breast, larynx, tracheal, bronchoconstriction, lung cancer, and colon and rectal cancer in men. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is an analysis ordered by you between 2013 and 2015. I would like to extend it long, with headlines such as:, Women are lagging behind from the EU,. A better supply system could save so many lives,. Brutals are the regional differences,. In many ways it doesn't really matter where you live,, is it surprising? More than three times as many poor people don't get care like rich ones, they take care of them, but how? The state spends little, the population spends a lot on its health,, Is it fair? The disability of the justice of the health system is shown by the fact that school education hijacks the life expectancy by 12 years, which is also influenced by where the person lives. I'm just saying that we're not the only ones saying that. And then there's a 2017 in case they say there's been a huge leap since 2015. The health status of the Hungarian population is critical according to the Hungarian Medical Chamber. The Hungarian Healthcare is in great trouble, according to the Medical Chamber, the title of this article. According to the MTI, one of the most important findings is that:. In the economies operating under conditions such as Hungary, there has long been no direct correlation between the size of GDP and its share of health funding. The amount of money a country spends on health care is, in their view, based solely on a political decision, therefore, on a country's budget, as well as a moral document. You can read it in the material. Among other things, the declaration states that the state of health of the Hungarian population has been critical for decades. The functioning and security of the health care system, despite the huge capital investment, is not improving; the overload of its employees, the exodus of poor wages, is already worsening by patients and the population. The document describes as a cause of deterioration the serious insufficient resources needed for safe operation, the unpredictable provision of operational resources and the lack of money that cannot be taken into account for the country's economic situation. According to the Medical Chamber, fundamental changes are needed. I've only read this because it's a report from 2017 and we can't be accused of running the Medical Chamber. That is why we say that there is a need for a change, as the Medical Chamber says, and therefore, in order to improve this domestic situation, a potential next MSZP government would make a significant wage increase for healthcare workers' wages, so that these wages approach and then reach the average of market wages, so that the emigration of doctors, nurses and healthcare workers can really be stopped. We will create a better-funded GP system for everyone, with special attention to child care, more money and more money for prevention, health preservation, so that they can work as efficiently as possible. We will develop the National Ambulance, introduce a new system of social support, make public the data of hospital infections, because patients have a right to know what circumstances they can expect, and we will ensure with independent patient law authorities that patients' rights in hospitals are not violated so that I can highlight some of the programme points that we would definitely consider important in the next period. So I would continue to say, and it is true, that sometimes a person gets carried away, but he takes it because we're talking about human lives here, we're talking about how long, how much quality he's in. And you hear news that older people actually cost a lot of money, and I'm not sure they have to get all the health care, because they cost too much. Well, please, when it would cost you, if not when you're old and you're in the hospital, or when you're talking about cancer patients, or when you're talking about having a hip replacement surgery, you have to wait, regardless of whether the Secretary of State thinks we're actually in the waiting list. In these areas, I think it is simply intolerance, passion, that I think it is a good political attitude rather than a success propaganda. That is why I say that a long-term programme, even a national minimum, would indeed be needed in the health sector in order to effectively address these problems and problems in the interests of voters in the next period. And the same is true of a number of other areas that I may have to address. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-02-21-83	Thank you very much. Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2018-02-21-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I have just come from a press conference where we, together with the victims of this system, have signed an agreement with foreign exchange lenders, the victims of broker scandals, you know, those of you who do not think exist, because there is only one percent foreign exchange credit in Hungary today, it is true that we have to put the number that 900 thousand real estate will be carried out in the coming years. 900,000 real estates, 900,000 families are ignored by you, one tenth of the country. The victims of the broker scandals in this country are in the order of hundreds of thousands, they are those whom George Matolcsy called the President of the Central Bank, and he said that if anyone wanted to indemnify, if anyone wanted to do something for these people, he would always be opposed to using the funds of the central bank for this, although in fact these matters should have been prevented by the central bank. [[14.20]] The broker scandals are said to have been discovered by them. No, they didn't. Nothing's been discovered! It all fell on their heads. It fell on their heads, and then they took away the $200 billion of Quaestor's assets, and now they're there to treat the Oligarchs near Fidesz. But the most beautiful thing about this case is that the biggest asset, the largest asset of Quaestor, you know who bought it? And that, by the way, shows this government's profiteering. Well, the Hungarian state bought it! The Hungarian state bought a plot in the middle of our capital city of Budapest at the price of being on the edge of a rural town. An unbuilt property of 33 hectares was bought in the middle of the capital for HUF 18 billion, which is estimated by some experts to be worth up to five times that. This is your government. This is how you govern: they take away from people their savings, they take away from people what a company bought on their savings, and then they take these people and push them aside, and you say that you are the so-called caretakers. That's your policy. That's what needs to be changed. Your policy means that whoever is successful, or who is your friend, who is successful, is pleased, filled with money, who is not successful, has no access to your friendship and to your favor, and so has he. A man on the left can't accept that. A left-wing man cannot accept that this country can only be the successful heroes of those who come out of your ranks, whether the nation's gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros, son-in-law of the nation, or Csaba Tarsoly, who is responsible for the Quaestor scandal. For you, this is bad news, that the foreign exchange lenders have made an alliance; they have made an alliance with the victims of Quaestor, so they become a political factor, as they are one million people. One-tenth of the country, one million people have made an alliance to fight for their own apartments, livelihoods, roofs above their heads because you would let them take them away. We demand that the executions be stopped right now, because you didn't account for the banks well. We need a new bank settlement law. The central bank should stand up and compensate the people whose interests it didn't stand up for, and the central bank should stand up for those to whom it allowed them to take away its savings. These are signed in the agreement, and we will represent it. You are already well aware that you will not represent them, you will make a profit on this. You can imagine that when the 900,000 executions are started, then who will appear as a customer there! The nation's gasman will appear there, or the nation's son-in-law will appear. Who's gonna have a place to live? This is the question they asked, and so that we can change that and stand up for people's savings and people's homes, for the home of one tenth of the country, so we have an alliance, and you will be replaced. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2018-02-21-85	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, asked for a word.
u2018-02-21-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to mention two more topics quickly. One is education about what changes we would like to make here, because the focus of the MSZP's education policy is on the child. We want to provide modern knowledge to all students so that they can function in a manner appropriate to their diligence and abilities in their lives, and neither their family nor their place of residence determines what they can achieve in their lives. So we want public education that does not increase, but compensates for these odds. We will therefore increase the resources for education in proportion to GDP, restore the age limit for compulsory education to 18 years, introduce 9-year initial education, reduce the burden on students and reduce the administrative burden on teachers. In settlements where there is only a world-basedly committed institution, we will ensure that there is also a public or municipal school. We provide the local authorities with conditions to provide modern kindergarten care. We strengthen foreign language training in the entire system of public education so that those who do not have enough money on the market can learn foreign languages. The importance of IT as a basic skill is no longer controversial, and this is therefore almost equivalent to writing and reading. Therefore, in public education, in the new National Basic Training Plan, we will manage this accordingly. We are transforming vocational training into an increase in the proportion of public knowledge. We will eliminate Klebelsberg Center, provide more professional autonomy, more freedom for teachers. In higher education, it is desirable that as many young Hungarians as possible gain a degree, world-class knowledge at Hungarian universities and colleges. Therefore, we will make the first degree absolutely free and we will launch a programme for disadvantaged young people to help them get a diploma. Students' scholarships are raised by 33 percent, we guarantee the restoration of autonomy in higher education, and we also carry out a continuous wage increase in higher education, thus encouraging more people to get the right training and knowledge. There is one more issue that I would like to recommend to you, and this is the elderly, because perhaps this has been discussed less in today's Parliamentary debate. Here we will restore the Swiss indexation, raise the minimum old-age pension to HUF 57,000, start a corrective programme to make it easier to catch up on low pensions, especially pensions below HUF 100,000. Each year we give a pension supplement of HUF 120,000 corresponding to the monthly amount of the average pension, which would be the 13th month's pension, just in order to catch up on the low pensions. We are restoring early retirement and early retirement rights, lifting the limitation of working under pensions and making the supply of medicines free of charge for patients over 65 with chronic illness. We believe that with these programmes a fairer Hungary can be created. These programme points are in the interest of the people who live here, and they are born to be not only well-being but also well-being in Hungary. In closing thought, Mr President, if I may say so much: on behalf of the MSZP fraction, I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the last four years, which we have carried on and lived in different ways in various debates over the last four years, as I would like to thank all the workers in this House for allowing the work that has been done in this House. We hope that we will be with a larger faction, you will be with a smaller faction, but we will also meet for the next four years. Thanks again for the opportunity. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-02-21-87	Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, and before I give the chair to my dear colleague, I thank you for your four-year cooperation. I wish every candidate, whatever party's colors, a fair fight and good health! Let's meet at the new Parliament. Goodbye. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-02-21-88	Once again, I would like to welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi in the remaining timeframe. Here you go.
u2018-02-21-89	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. Let me just tell Attila Mesterházy a brief comment in parentheses: it was about style when I talked about her parentheses back. [[Dr. László Kács: Closed.]] [[14.30]] So today's debates and topics can be built on three pillars by Fidesz-KDNP, linked to three pillars. One is the state of the economy, the strengthening of the economy, the growth of the economy, the other is family policy measures and the third pillar is the protection of the country, the protection of the country's culture and identity. If we look at the first pillar, the first issue, economic policy, members of the government and fellow Members, have listed a lot of facts that prove that we are on the right track. Unemployment is falling, virtually no longer. There is a decline in public finances, very low inflation. Anyone who wants to can work in Hungary today. We can also report on many, many successes in our family policy measures, saying that we are on the right track. I always add that, of course, we still have a lot to do. Among the family policy measures, I would like to highlight those that support and support childbearing. I would also point out that pensioners can live in increasingly improved living conditions, that the purchasing power of pensions is increasing and increasing. Even for the retirement theme, I would like to highlight in any way the Women's 40. We have a serious problem with the demographic situation. We also managed to achieve a shift here, since the fertility rate index is 1.5 percent. After my time is over, I would like to wish everyone good work in the campaign and, above all, a fair campaign. Thank you very much for the opportunity to comment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches. The political debate is closed. Before giving the floor to the government representative in a 20-minute time frame, allow me to inform you that the representatives of the government have asked that the closing be given in two instalments by the two State Secretarys to replace each other. I respectfully ask which one starts. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-02-21-91	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. I do not want to abuse the possibility that I can speak in the closing words without the opposition having the opportunity to rip, but once I have been called once again by Congressman Mesterházy, I must, however, ask for your patience in two minutes, and I promise that I will not spend any more on this. I have great respect for the passion of the House of Representatives, and I very much respect it when a person argues for health care, whether with passion or without passion. I just wanted to draw attention to the need to correct the issue of credibility every time someone promises something in health care. It may be difficult for me to deal with Jobbik or other parties who have not been in government before, but in relation to the MSZP, this is certainly exciting. I was pleased to hear how much the MSZP wants to do with health, but I would like to confront them with what happened when they were on the government. I just want to read some facts. The children's hospital in Svábhegy has been closed, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute has been closed, and Schöpf-Merei Hospital has been closed. The number of beds decreased by 16,000, and 6,000 medical workers had to be disbanded nationwide. I promised I wouldn't talk more than two minutes, so I'd like to stick to that fact. I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that there will always be something new in health care, but only to the question of credibility. I thank you for the opportunity to be here in Parliament and to participate in these debates. I also thank you for the fact that the debates have remained largely professional and have been less overheated. I want us to be able to go on like this. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for these moderate words. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-21-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With the title of today's debate, the wording sounds like we need to change Hungary! After 2010, an economic convergence began, when the country, the country's leadership, took the economic and social direction of the country into its own hands, in the hands of the Hungarians. We have created all the conditions for this autonomy. We created its financial conditions, created the conditions for the country's financial independence. With the change of time and the change of challenges, it is necessary to keep our fate in hand that we also create our own security. So I reassure everyone who has been following the debate and who has been following the policy, for the past four or eight years, that all the changes that are needed to make this country rich, so that citizens can feel Hungary at home, this change will continue to take place and will happen. The productivity of the economy has enabled career models not from loans, but from foreign sources, but from economic performance, to increase people's wages, to increase real wages in Hungary at a record rate, and not only because of the intervention of the state, but also because of the government's activities, but also because of market processes. But these market processes, the strengthening of the economy, are clearly linked to the strength of the people, the diligence and the talent of the people. The Hungarian people are the ones who guarantee change. The Hungarian people are the ones who guarantee that we will establish and improve all the necessary conditions in the country, which is really necessary for the 21st century. All services corresponding to the century should be at the highest possible level, and so that all services can be reached in all settlements. A complete overhaul of the health infrastructure and background has begun. Hospitals are beautiful, built, expanded with tools. The government contributes to the provision of general medical services, the general medical service with large state support and practical support. Rescue stations have been renewed in a row, rescue cars are renewed in a row. We have granted economic freedom to local governments, freed local governments from their credit holdings, created opportunities, created constantly to develop from domestic Hungarian sources and European Union funds, obviously not for self-serving purposes, but to provide the best possible services for citizens living in settlements. By transforming the municipal law, by transforming the funding of the municipal system, we have stabilized it, and I think we will also ensure for a long time that the municipalities can manage and ensure that at the end of each municipal cycle new representatives, new mayors or even the old ones can be re-elected by the people. So change is in progress, change is a process the main driver of which is the activity, diligence and willpower of Hungarian citizens. Mr President, Thank you very much, Mr President, and for the work of the House's leadership. I was given the opportunity to speak as the last representative of the government in this term. I thank all the Members of this House for their work, of course, and I thank my fellow Members, my party groups, and, of course, my fellow opposition Members, for their participation in this four-year term in this joint work, and I wish everyone good luck in the election. Have a good day. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-21-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the debate on our agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. He spoke after the agenda: Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, with the title "NER" on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-21-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am ashamed, but I do not deny that in 2010 I was pleased with the victory of Fidesz, and I wanted the governments that preceded it to leave Hungary as soon as possible. In 2010, I thought that a great change and a great improvement in the country would be the end of the period created by the 2002-2010 governance. [[14.40]] To tell you the truth, in my worst dream, I didn't think where Fidesz-KDNP would go and where the quality of Hungarian governance would go. In hindsight, I regret that I was glad at the time, because I did not think that by 2014 the country would be completely transformed, and these changes would not be so positive. In 2010, when I considered whether to be a member of the Hungarian Parliament and Parliament in order to dissuade András Schiffer, my former head of the group, I said in 2010 that I would rather stay away and trust in wise governance, but I changed my opinion by 2014 and I also agreed to join this Parliament in order to take part in the national list. I had to experience very, very sadly that the kind of well-meaning opposition mentality with which I tried to improve the quality of governance with constructive amendments and submissions was completely arrogantly reflected, and I could not have a meaningful, positive impact on the Parliament's work at any level. I had to conclude that in the years after 2014, it became certain in Hungary that a well-organized criminal group was incorporated into Hungary's legislation, and that it was partly a parliamentary influence, and partly a government role, and partly a family-based organised crime category, that the country was moving towards the kind of direction that none of us could ever wish for its country. Many people are probably going to call on me today to apologize, and I have to say that Fidesz's base is mostly made up of criminals and accomplices, because by 2018, it had to be clear to everyone that the kind of government that is going on in Hungary is nothing but about the expansion of public wealth and the preservation of power. The common good, as such, is no longer in messages. Fidesz doesn't have a campaign, no message, nothing you can say about anything but the abuse of others, the demonization of aliens and a chosen person, about the incitement of hatred. Obviously, four years after the first parliamentary term of my life, I will try to pick up at home with some disappointment, to continue my life, with the disappointment that I believed and hoped to gather among the walls of the Parliament, within these historical, ancient walls, people who are all working for the rise of the nation. My fellow opponents politely said that they would meet again in 2018. To tell you the truth, I would be happy to see some of the benches of Fidesz on television, in criminal proceedings, rather than in the walls of Parliament, because what we saw and experienced here was nothing more than the pursuit of this. In my final speech, please allow me to thank the staff of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank the stenographers, who have been forced to take notes of my constant grunting for many hours. Thank you very much for all the sacrifice and help you've done for the last four years. I thank all the employees of the Parliamentary Office for what they have done to ensure that our work is smooth. With great respect and great love, I would like to thank the Group of Politics, all of its colleagues, for the activities that helped my group work, and also for all those who helped us to do the best quality work on the outside, whether from Dunaújváros or from elsewhere with continuous data and data. And obviously, thank you for the confidence that I was honoured in 2014 by putting me at the top of the national list, allowing me to talk a lot here and to represent the values that I consider important. Despite the fact that I am leaving here with some disappointment, because I do not feel that I could have improved the quality of governance, I must say that I would like to believe that the May Other is the political faction between 2014-18 was the wind of the kind of change in the Hungarian Parliament that was about how to renew the entire Hungarian public life in the 28th year following the regime change. I believe that the wind of this change must come in 2018 or later, because obviously the changes, as everyone has already seen in 88, must now be seen, cannot be stopped. I wish you all good work and good health. I trust that better governments, better parliamentary meetings will follow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-21-96	Thank you very much. Yes, honourable Member, I am the first to ask you to apologize, or to consider all that you have said, because, without the judicial judgments in force, to accuse a faction or community of what you have said, I think it is a minimum of apology. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament's spring session in 2018 and the 2014-2018 cycle are certainly over as well. This time makes it my duty to thank you. On behalf of Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the colleagues of the Office of Parliament for the indispensable assistance they have provided for our work as legislators and representatives. For their work, they welcome the leadership of the Parliament, and I believe that all my fellow Members, together with me, have their thanks and their sincere recognition. We also thank all those who have followed our annual and four-year work. I wish you all would take advantage of the rest of your time. I thank my fellow Members separately for their work. We have been able to work together for four years, which are difficult and often stressful, in addition to the differences in our views about the common good and the interests of Hungary, which often seem irreconcilable. The professional work carried out at committee meetings, as well as the debates at plenary meetings, if they have often been intense and sometimes heated, I believe that they have contributed to the fact that we have been able to create a number of excellent laws and adopt future decisions together for our country, Hungary and the Hungarian people. However, during these debates, I regret that personal confrontations, which also violate the dignity of the Parliament, have come to the surface, which certainly cannot be the right way to follow. In debates, it is good for all of us to strive for restraint, because mistakes and misunderstandings can be forgiven, but personal insults leave scars in souls. These latter terms are particularly important now during the campaign period, and we need to remember them very strongly and carry them in our hearts, because as a public figure, everything we say affects the debate culture of everyday life, conflict resolution, ultimately human relations. I hope that in the most difficult hours of the campaign, we do not lose sight of the real meaning of the elections, because as Károly Kós said, it is man's duty to serve his people. With these thoughts, I wish all of us good health and a fair election struggle, God's blessing. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a safe journey and a happy reunion here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
