u2018-10-02-0	[[The people in the room stand up and greet the voters' community; they stand and listen to the president's introductory words.]] Good morning to the secretary of state. I very much welcome everyone, most of all my fellow Members. Have a seat. [[The president will take a seat, and then the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today, either through the television or the radio. We now have speeches before the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the year of the families, more families will become homeless than ever before, Mr Sándor Székely of the DK Group has applied for a speech before the agenda entitled Homelessness. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The governing party has been struggling with the problems of foreign exchange lenders since 2010 and seems to be having a very difficult time dealing with this problem. It saves rich families from their own problems, because we all know that the repayments of housing loans were finally lost when they came to power. Rich families were rescued from these situations, but the lower middle class and poor people were left for the victims of the banks. More and more people are being evicted, and that is not enough to evict them, you gentlemen, in 2012, have been criminalised, because if someone is homeless in Hungary, this is a crime, and they have done so by circumventing even the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court cannot intervene in this matter. And when the relevant committees of the European Union or the United Nations or even the Sargentini report seriously reports and comments on this, you say that our allies are punishing the Hungarian people because the government is supposed to protect Europe and Hungary from refugees. We're seeing amazing situations. They take children away from families, they enter the Hungarian care system, which was recently published as a hotbed for crime, sexual violence. We know very well that those who enter there are having a terrible difficulty breaking out of the life situation they have been in, and moreover, the Hungarian state has spent a lot of money on these people, which, by the way, if we were to use it to solve the housing loans, we might not even have to take away the children, most of all the Roma children, from their families. That's what you do with this country, with the people in your hands. In an amazing cynical way, this year the house moratorium was extended until the elections, it could not be evicted until May, but since then, it seems that they want to catch up with them, 20 families are evicted every day. Slowly, but not so slowly, they turn the country into a tent camp, saying, by the way, how fantastically the economy is pounding. Slowly, it seems that many people have to live on the streets because they can't pay their house loans. Last week, I presented a proposal to set up an ad hoc committee to solve the eviction crisis and the problems of foreign exchange lenders together. Of course, all parties would be present in this, and civilians could be called in, as well as banks, to discuss problems and to make proposals that are mutually acceptable. It is also proposed to stop eviction immediately and not to continue as long as the committee does its work. I very much hope that this committee will soon be brought before Parliament, set up so that we can begin the work that you have not done in the last eight years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Like you, European Hungarians do not want to see homeless families on the streets of cities. Unlike you, however, it does not hold them locked up or expelled to the forest, but rather to help the community. If we have 3 billion forints for the stadium of third-rate football teams in Serbia, then there should also be money to help those poor people who are taking their apartment away from them. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-02-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have missed two things in your speech as a representative of DK as a representative of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party. One is an apology to the Hungarian people for the conversion of the interest-rate loan system established by the first Orbán government into a foreign exchange loan system, and not a state-supported housing and home creation program, although this was promised several times in the election campaign, and the Cicero of the Carpathians, Péter Medgyessy, said that this is a good thing and that this should continue. So they didn't take this forward, but, on the one hand, out of political revenge, to annihilate and destroy one of the successes of the Orbán government, and, on the other hand, because you wanted to save money on people, families, so that you wouldn't have to pay that interest rate in the budget, but you could spend it for another purpose, which, of course, we haven't really seen in the country since. Well, so you're here to save money, and to take political revenge on the first Orbán government's successful home creation program, so people have been chased into foreign exchange lending, and you haven't noticed or noticed, but you haven't done anything to increase the amount of foreign currency loans under your governance by a hundred times. Anything that rises a hundred times in the course of a government is dangerous, it must be brought to the attention of people. Yes, honourable Member, however squinty it may be, under the governance of the MSZP-SZDSZ, the stock of foreign exchange loans in Hungary has increased 100 times. And I also missed your apologies and apologies for this, and I also missed you telling me that the Gyurcsány government or the Bajnai government or any of the others in which DK and its predecessors took part did what they did to save these people; what they did to stop this process at least, although we know that your capacity for positive translation cannot really be shown. They didn't do anything about it. [[9.10]] In fact, as we can remember, your President of the Central Bank, who you have supported here in Parliament with a large majority, has been nominated and elected by the government, said that at least the Hungarian people will learn to take credit, that it is dangerous, and he talked about it, if I remember correctly, to the American ambassador, so at least the Hungarian society will learn when to take credit and when not. That was social sensitivity. They didn't talk about who was going to live in the woods or what families were being evicted, but they were completely cynical, showing zero sensitivity and sensitivity to people's everyday problems, saying that they would learn at their own expense. That's what your central bank president said at the time. In contrast, Fidesz-KDNP helped all families. I would like to reject in the strongest terms what you said that only rich families can benefit from any form of support. You know that the average amount of credit generated during the end-payment and in other cases was somewhere between HUF 4-5 million. This is not a multimillionaire family, and it is not a multimillion-dollar palace, it is a 4-5 million forints average final repayment amount, let's say, but precisely that someone moved one room into a larger apartment, or these few million forints were missing in order to buy a home according to his dreams or his ideas. Do not tell these people that they are multimillionaires, who will take out a loan of HUF 4-5 million in Hungary in order to buy an apartment. So, not just for rich families, but for everyone who bought a flat, it could have been more wealthy, less wealthy, tangible help. You're being disproved by the data. However, Fidesz-KDNP has stopped and sought to eliminate this situation by prohibiting foreign exchange lending on the one hand. Now only those who earn their income in foreign currency can take on foreign currency loans in Hungary. First of all, on 11 August 2010 we ordered the cessation of house evacuations, and in 2011 we accepted the institution of end-payment, which helped 170,000 families. With the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, we were also able to save more than 170,000 entrants the payment of HUF 50 billion in interest. It was also important to create the National Asset Manager, which created the possibility for 100,000 people to continue living in their former apartments, if not as owners, but as tenants. Overall, we held HUF 1200 billion in the pockets of the Hungarian people with the bank accounting laws. This money didn't wander into banks' pockets. If you had stayed, this HUF 1200 billion would have moved into the banks' pockets. Since 2010 Fidesz-KDNP has been ruling, this HUF 1200 billion remains in the pocket of the Hungarian people in difficulty. We passed a law of law in 2014. Forinting has helped about half a million families and means that they are no longer exposed to interest rate fluctuations. The introduction of family bankruptcy protection has also helped hundreds of families. Two thousand procedures are already under way, and the obligation to notify the municipality and other similar amendments are the last option for many families, whether or not, for greater security. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I would add, however, that we reversed this process in the case of families' home-building benefits, and we were able to help 81 thousand families with a value of HUF 232 billion to actually get housing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, What's going to happen to you? Mr Sándor Szabó, the notary of the Parliament, from the group of the MSZP, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was World Elderly Day, but since 2000, 30 September has been the day of Hungarian municipalities, which we have heard little about recently. I think it is worth looking at how the local governments stand here, in the walls of the House, and how the local government stands in Hungary today. In 2012, when the Fidesz government significantly touched the municipal law, the municipalities went through a drastic change in the lives of the municipalities, thereby reducing the autonomy of the municipalities. The Fundamental Law has interrupted the fundamental approach of the right to local self-government, and has clarified the powers of the local authorities, thereby creating the possibility of a broad limitation of the rights of the local authorities. From 2013, when the law came into force, the self-determination and decision-making rights of the municipalities significantly decreased. The whole point of this restructuring was to achieve centralisation in as many areas as possible in the municipal area, centralisation, where the government might actually have a strong control over the settlements. As a result, the State took over tasks from the municipalities. I know, Mr. Secretary of State's reply, you will tell me that you saved the municipalities, but I told you here and again a thousand years ago that, on the other hand, significantly more resources have been taken from the settlements than they have taken over, whether it is personal income tax on the resident side, tax revenue and other taxes. While in 2010 the budgetary part of the municipal sector was around 1200 billion, it decreased significantly to 670 billion in 2012. As regards funding, I also addressed a question to the Secretary of State last week. We can clearly see that the aid is almost unchanged in the municipalities every year in respect of the individual performance indicators. There are mandatory municipal tasks that the state is not, or is not, fully financed by budgetary resources, whether they are social benefits, lawnmaster tasks, cultural activities, and could still be classified. And what we consider completely unjustified is that, where appropriate, churches are given a significantly higher norm for the operation of certain institutions than local municipal authorities, even though they would be able to carry out these tasks at least at the same level. Some areas; it is not possible to list what has happened in the municipalities. Area of education: In 2013, the right to reserve was removed from the municipalities, KLIK was created. I don't know how they thought that such a big center would be able to handle local governments, local parents, local communities. It couldn't work, it failed after a year, but you didn't learn from it, you created a lot of little KLIKs. Today, the education system is in ruins, the teachers, students are overwhelmed, the odds have increased. [[9.20]] But of course, there are state ministers who can send their children to private school for 2 million forints. Perhaps the aid in the area of social benefits has fallen to the greatest extent since 2010. This was also felt by the municipalities, and while there was a kind of centralization effort everywhere else, we see that there was decentralisation here in terms of settlements, because from 2015 they told the municipalities, go ahead, set up municipal subsidies, and solve the everyday life of the disadvantaged. Yet you knew that 90 percent of the settlements actually only have the money to carry out their own operation, obviously they cannot solve the task. Waste management is a veterinary horse. You have also taken this task away from the municipalities. It is clear that this company has completely fallen, completely failed, to the extent that its own auditor is unable to sign the company's report, since there is so much shortage. Not to mention that for a year and a half this company didn't work, and there is a huge problem with companies that actually provide services that performed the municipal task earlier. And there's a list of what happened in the municipal area, in the municipal sector. You must also acknowledge that this centralisation, the reduction of local governments, the reduction of self-determination of municipalities has had little effect, and this has not helped the country to develop at all. I think that the opportunity and the right for local communities to shape their daily lives should be restored. In order for the municipalities to be able to manage this in a foreseeable way, I have said this earlier, a fair, fair and reasonable rethink of the allocation of resources must be achieved. Thank you.
u2018-10-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, a lot has happened in the local government world since 2010-2012, but a lot has happened in the municipal system since 1990. By 2010, the Hungarian municipal system reached the point where it became virtually inoperable as a result of effective government measures after 2007-2008. Here it is enough to mention that, for example, in response to the results obtained after the 2006 municipal elections, the county authorities were deprived of the tax revenues and the institution-keeping departments, which largely maintained the health institutions and secondary schools which later became state-reserved, thus putting the counties in a position, with a single decision, with a single pen stroke, that their revenues did not reach their daily wage expenditure. But the same process also took place in the municipalities. Everyone is aware of the State Court's report published in 2008, which estimated the resources withdrawn from the municipal system from 2002 to 2008 and the additional burden caused by additional tasks in the municipal system to HUF 1700 to 1800 billion. By 2010, the municipal authorities were practically on the verge of bankruptcy, and we had to take action, and we did. The government has taken over the total debt of the municipalities, and the municipalities that could not take out or take out loans because of their abilities have launched a compensation scheme to replace the improvements that others may have created from loans. And we really need to think about it, think about the system of division of tasks. It was probably from you, as mayor of the time, that the state did not provide even 60% of the operating and maintenance resources of primary schools or secondary schools in the case of public education, and the municipalities had to complement this from their own budget. When you compare the budget before 2010 and today's budget, you have to add that the budget for education is set out in Annex IX. In fact, it has been removed from Chapter II of the City Council chapter, just as budgetary resources for the maintenance of hospitals have been removed. And if you pull the balance between the two balances, the transfer of tasks resulting from the division of tasks and the budget financing, you will see that in 2011-12, the new budget system, with the task funding, remained about 40-60 billion more in the municipal budget chapter for the given package of tasks than it had before. In the case of municipal grants, at all, in the division of tasks, I think it is worth making clear that a significant part of these tasks is not a municipal task, which has been avoided by the notaries of the municipalities, but a notary profession, a notary task, so that the municipalities have never had anything to do with them in this sense before. The publication of documents was clearly not a municipal task prior to that date, nor was the rationality of the maintenance of the document office in the municipalities, which had an impact on the costs of the municipalities. I would like to remind Mr President that in the case of an ID card, which was around HUF 116 in 2009-2010, the municipality had to add HUF 36 to make the ID. All these additional burdens have been waived by the municipalities. In the transformation of municipal aid and social assistance, standardised aid has been transferred to districts, while aid requiring individual treatment, which is necessary for the public to be fully aware of, has remained with the municipalities. It's not true they don't have a source for that. In order to provide social assistance, we have created a special social support self-hocking system, in which there was 5 billion HUF, but this could have been extended. The municipalities apply for 900 million HUF each year to this source of support. So it's not true that they can't handle social issues. With regard to waste management: honourable Member, it is clear that, under the municipal law, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to manage waste. And let us not forget that centralized large municipal companies carried waste from small settlements on a business basis, or provided other utilities, and directed its profits to large settlements. This injustice has ceased. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On current matters! Mr Bence Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, from the Group of Dialogue, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens, Today is October 2nd, World Nonviolence Day, Mahatma Gandhi's birthday. But I am not talking about non-violence today because of Gandhi's birthday, but because of what we experience in Hungarian politics; because Fidesz represents the culture of violence, because Fidesz exercises the policy of violence. The Dialogue, on the other hand, represents a world of non-violence, because we believe that it can be without violence and that it is only worth achieving a goal without violence. Just so you understand what violence means, I quote the definition of the United Nations World Health Organization: "Violence is a deliberate abuse of physical power or power, either as a threat or in fact against ourselves, someone else or a group or community, leading to injury, death, psychological injury, abnormal development or a state of absence, deprivation or deprivation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Today, I will talk about economic violence in many types of violence, when abuse of power leads to a state of absence and deprivation. In the last eight years, Fidesz has committed numerous acts of violence and continued violence against the Hungarian people. Fidesz acts as an economic violence against the Hungarian people by cheating out the pension savings of 3 million people with threats, blackmail and false promises. Fidesz committed economic violence on the Hungarian people when it introduced the world's most unfair personal income tax system, the single-key tax, which meant a tax increase for earners below the average or not much above the average. Fidesz raped Hungarian people in an economic sense when they did not give pensioners a legitimate increase when they tricked with inflation when they cheated away the pension premium years earlier. Fidesz committed economic violence on the Hungarian people when they withdrew a significant part of the social benefits, reduced the benefits when they cut back the unemployment benefit from nine to three months, which is unprecedented in Europe and even in the world, and which is condemned by the Sargentini report. Fidesz committed economic violence on the Hungarian people when they withdrew a significant part of the economic rights and made it virtually impossible to strike, thus serving the interests of their German industrial contractors at the time of the reform of the labour code. [[9.30]] Fidesz is taking economic violence on people when they are stealing the money of Hungarian and EU taxpayers, when they are not spending the subsidies and public procurement that people should spend to improve their standard of living and quality of life. Fidesz takes economic violence on the Hungarian people when it takes it away from the poor and gives it to the rich in the reduction of the rent, housing support, family support, when incomes are transferred from the bottom up, creating a perverse redistribution. We can say that Fidesz is a rapist. Fidesz regularly engages in economic violence against Hungarian people. The Dialogue, on the other hand, believes in a nonviolent economy. The Dialogue supports an economic arrangement within the framework of social democracy where inequalities are reduced, where there are no extreme injustices, or if there are, the state does not amplify them, but dampens them. Dialogue believes in a nonviolent economy, where fewer are poor and fewer are rich, where the middle class is broad and solidarity. Dialogue believes in a non-violent economy, where no one can squander because everyone deserves a basic income. The non-violent economy believes in Dialogue, where there is no worker poverty, thanks to a fair tax system and once again the introduction of basic income, which is also due to workers. The Dialogue believes in the non-violent economy, where exploitation of workers is reduced, the added value will give workers a greater share, where employee part-owners' programmes are launched, where the system of tripartite reconciliation is restored, where strong trade unions effectively represent the interests of workers. Dialogue believes in a non-violent economy, where our elderly countrymen receive basic pensions and decent work pensions. The Dialogue believes in a nonviolent economy, where we devote special care and much more money to difficult people, such as our fellow countrymen who care for their loved ones at home. The Dialogue is convinced that only a non-violent economy can build a non-violent society, a peaceful, safe world. The majority of Hungarians in the Fidesz rapist regime want nothing more than a little peace and security. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2018-10-02-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We may agree on one thing: that any form of violence is unacceptable. But I'd like to remind you, just because you used the word rape so many times, it wasn't this government that got shot in the crowd. [[Dr. Zsolt Gréczy: You wanted to use sharp ammunition.]] And which, by the way, decorated the culprits. And it wasn't this government that surrounded Parliament with a cordon. However, you also talked about economic issues, so allow me to deal with it in the majority of the answer. If what you say is true, Hungarian GDP could not increase by 4.8 percent, as the EU average is 2.2 percent, so we can say that Hungarian growth is more than double the EU average. Our country is the second most dynamically growing economy in the European Union. If what you say is true, employment in Hungary would not be close to 70 percent. Unemployment should not fall from 12 per cent to 3.7 per cent compared to 2010. And it would not happen that since the government took office, more than 700 thousand of them have worked, and, by the way, 640 thousand of them work in the market sector. If what you say is true, it would not be possible for wages to increase by 12.8 percent in a year, a significant part of which is real wage growth. If what you say is true, then it would not happen that in the first half alone 13 percent more investments would arrive in Hungary than last year, worth HUF 3100 billion. And if what you say is true, then Hungary should not issue government bonds at the lowest interest rate so far. These facts are about a growing country, a country that is more economically stable on its feet, even if there is much more to be done. As far as your proposals are concerned, you referred to them, and we know very well that the Dialogue would introduce the basic income. This is a fundamental problem for us, because you would bring back an era where it was more worth living on welfare than on work. If you were in government, you wouldn't have been able to reduce unemployment from 12 percent to 4 percent. We also know that your Prime Minister's candidate, who shined in the campaign as a candidate for Prime Minister, would eliminate the family tax relief. He left 1900 billion forints in the families that have children with this program, and you'd like to eliminate it. It was also rocked, not only by the LMP, but also by you, that the family home-building discount would be abolished. If we look at what kind of economic advisors are sniffing around your party, we'll see that they're saying freaky things. For example, not only the income tax of the middle class but also the tax burden of companies should be increased. And it only makes this situation worse, that the central property tax has also been proposed, and that the women's programme would also be abolished. These are freaky suggestions, honourable Member. [[Bence of Turda: That's not true.]] As far as the Sargentini report is concerned, because you have also referred to this: if I recall it correctly, you have said in recent days that you would have voted in favour of this report with the best of your heart, and you are personally grateful to Mrs Sargentini for the good work she has done politically. It's a shame. It is a shame that a Hungarian Member would have supported and voted for a report that would have been there against the country. [[Intercoms from the opposition: Against the government! Against the Orbán government!]] Otherwise, if we look at the substance of this report, we have a debate on one issue, and this is the issue of migration. Well, if we know that, then it's not so surprising why they represent this policy. You demanded that the fence not be built, and then, after it was built, you demanded that the government tear it down. You in the European Parliament have supported compulsory distribution and have even voted in favour of a fine for countries that do not support compulsory distribution. Your representative says that Hungary is pretending to stop migration, but the larger Member States are not rocking themselves in this illusion. This is your policy, which is why you would support and support the Sargentini report. So the thing is, what you're representing is the same policy that we've gotten used to from the left. There's a small difference between pouring the whole thing down with a small far-left mash. That's not gonna do us any good. [[Dr. Zsolt Gréczy: Is the European People's Party far left?]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-02-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How credible is the government's policy? Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Seeing the deep flight in the field of public education, the fact that virtually a quarter of young people come out of the system as functional illiterates, the National Association of Employers and Industrialists demands effective measures. The pro-government gentlemen and ladies are less interested in these problems, as they can save their children without difficulty to private schools that require millions of tuitions, but which are well paid, using selected teachers. However, 42 percent of families with children live below the minimum living rate, unlike the Orbán-Tiborcz family, where there was no problem with the Swiss tuition fee of 15 million, even a special class is a problem. Their kids don't have a million-dollar Vuitton, they get cheap Chinese bags. Before the 2010 elections, when criticising the educational system of his socioliberal opponents, Viktor Orbán said that it is much harder to reach the university today than it was during the period before the regime change. I don't want to argue with the truth of your statement at the time, but it's been a while since then. Has the situation improved in the last eight years? What opportunities do children with similar family backgrounds now have? They're no better. Because of the brutal selectivity, the Hungarian school business could easily choose where you were born to stay as a motto. Zoltán Balog said at one of the national school year openings that we trust Hungarian public education. It seems that this trust has evaporated with you since then, or, unlike the Propagandalosunges, it has never existed. It is suspected that, as so many times, it is the case that while preaching water, you are drinking wine. [[9.40]] After all, there is some brazenly discreet charm that even the heads of the Ministry of Public Education are sending their children to a luxurious private school demanding a million tuition fees. This is, of course, a private matter, but politicians are public figures, so by choosing a school they also say value judgment over the Hungarian school starting 1023 in the autumn. Like pro-government politicians, the NER's major parasites are not happy to mix with the early riser, hardworking, but wealthless average people, and leave the social experience described as a positive concept in integration pedagogy to their children. In the sheltered burka of the private school bus schools of the moneyy elite from private house to house, there will be no chance for politicians to learn about social reality; to learn about the multiculty where, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, some of the students of some public schools are pit bulls and rottweilers, and their role models are criminals and loan sharks. When due to urizing separation, so-called domestic political elite, I ask you to put your children in the record and then put them in the elite citation, they cannot learn together, they cannot play together during breaks with shop tellers, rail ticket inspectors, touch protection standardity reviewers, goat cheese makers, sons and daughters of gypsy and non-Gypsy public workers, so that they can easily grow up and think and say such nonsense as Zsiga Marcell did when he understood that 47,000 could be lived. So they won't know anything about the world of ordinary people, so social, national cohesion is gone. Dear Secretary of State, When are you going to make it possible for an average public school to provide a competitive alternative, not only for the children of the elite, but also for the children of the population you consider to be poor? From the nation's day laborers, this will not work without the moral and financial appreciation of teachers who are underpaid, overwhelmed and intimidated by power, as a servant of schools and vocational training centers. When will the Nobel Prize-winning economist Stiglitz's words be heeded, who wrote in his book Creating a Learning Society: "The public policies that prevent learning in any way will reduce well-being in the long term. What's the matter with you? And I know that there will be an answer to the huge wage increases, but this wage increase for the next year does not even reach the amount of the value of the private plane your prime minister is flying to football games. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your reply.
u2018-10-02-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Apparently, from the trauma of the election defeat, the Jobbik fraction hasn't been able to escape yet. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. President, on the other hand, the Member has made a selection of speeches from the last eight years, which have nothing to do with government measures, ignoring them, but thought that he would give such a summary. Two things clearly came out of what you said, which obviously does not contradict your previous speeches. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The infinite downgrading of Hungarian teachers, on the one hand, because you claim here that Hungarian teachers somehow believe that children should not be brought up to life [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Says you!]] For some reason, they don't need to be taught. You believe that 170,000 people want to raise people suddenly from one moment to the next, and you may have only followed the instructions of the party president, who said at the last Jobbik convention or at some other good event that in the Hungarians, you became the master of servitude, and you continue to do so here that you believe the Hungarians are servile. They despise Hungarian people just for that reason. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Answer the question! What percentage of KDNP do we have? Zero!]] Because you were punished by voters in 2018 for selling your party to an oligarch, a billionaire, and you were punished. And that's why... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Just because you're louder doesn't mean you'll have any more votes, honourable Member. You've been making noise for eight years, and fewer voters have voted for you than before. You can continue this, it's beneficial to us, but it's not in your party's best interests.
u2018-10-02-16	[[To Márton Gyöngyösi:]] Mr. Team Leader! I'm asking you to keep your faction in check a little bit. They've been heard, and now it's your turn. Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-02-17	So your party president says that servitude has taken over the Hungarians, that he despises people terribly, that he despises voters just because they didn't choose Jobbik in the spring election this year. It is not the electorate that should be avenged, honourable Member, it is not the teachers that should be looked down on, it is not the people who should be looked down on, if your politics are not supported enough. Maybe that's where they made a mistake when they joined forces with the KáGébéles. they made mistakes when they sold themselves to Lajos Simicska or made mistakes when they were going to hand over Hungarian powers to Brussels. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Let us look at the expenditure on education, honourable Member. Let us look at what measures Jobbik did not support in order to improve the Hungarian education system. There was no support for any increase in expenditure on education. We spend 606 billion forints more on education in Hungary next year than the government has planned for us in the budget presented in 2010. Forint 606 billion, honourable Member, this means that more than one and a half percent of GDP is spent on education than our predecessors have. If you look at the OECD statement, honourable Member, it's in proportion to GDP, like, [[György Szilágyi: Talk about quality! Talk about Szabó Fairy.]] Ireland's expenditure on education and we are preventing the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Lithuania from coming from the region. We are already spending more value on education, precisely in order to value teachers by raising their wages by 50 percent on the one hand, and on the other, to renovate the schools' buildings, make them more modern, introduce digital teaching materials. [[György Szilágyi: Specifically, this is a lie, what you are saying!]] If you could once see how much development is going on in the Hungarian schools, you would have to visit 540 schools and count the value of the developments in them. [[György Szilágyi: Give a few sentences about quality! The quality of education!]] you could get up to 126 billion forints, honourable Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you look at whether or not they have grown or decreased, say nursery and kindergarten seats, you can see that preschool spaces have also increased by 9,000 from the age of three, and the number of preschool teachers employed has also increased by a thousand. If you want to know, honourable Member, what the chances of a child in difficulty today look like compared to what was in 2010 and what I would like to take off the other social aspects, I would like to see only in the field of education, there is an extension of free catering. You know, we increased this amount from HUF 29 billion to HUF 79 billion in order to prevent anyone from getting a decent breakfast at home or getting lunch at home, getting no dinner, that's why he couldn't pay attention at school. The state now compensates for this and makes it available to everyone. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] There is no financial problem with purchasing textbooks, because more than a million students receive their textbooks free of charge from the first to the ninth, honourable Member. There are family tax breaks and many other measures, the free KRESZ exam, the free language exam, which made education more accessible to children in difficulty. And there's the teacher's wage increase and the fact that over 40,000 teachers have already qualified themselves. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Over! Thank you very much.]] , and in the next year's budget, we expect billions of dollars in surplus that the teachers themselves are II. We also raise the wages of grade-qualified teachers. We are spending billions on this precisely so that students can receive better and better education in Hungarian schools, so that Hungary can be as competitive as possible. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I think if you weren't angry with the voters and not angry with the Hungarian teachers, you could see these results. [[György Szilágyi: Blah, blah, blah! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The homeless case is about the man, the homeless who need help, and the other people who use public space? Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-19	Mr President, Fellow Members! It's October, this month the heating season begins [[Dr. István Apáti: It's raining!]] And this month, we're paying particular attention to the homeless. Now this year, our attention will be increased by the fact that legislation on the order and purity of public spaces will be put in place. To understand the issue as a whole, we need to record three facts. First of all, human dignity deserves everyone, even the most miserable person in the world, from this point of view we are the same. On the other hand, the homeless supply system is working well in Hungary, and there are also reserves in this system. [[9.50]] The third is that users of public space also have their rights, and this must also be taken into account, as cleanliness and order must be created in the public area. Let's look at the first question, the situation of the homeless. People who live on the streets have many problems, including diseases requiring psychiatric treatment, and many others. In their past there are failures, there are tragedies that have not been processed, there is depression, there is hopelessness; they are in a human situation that deserves understanding and help. The other issue is the homeless supply system. On Saturday, I visited such an institution, and I found that the workers were really prepared and making a serious sacrifice, and this sense of professionalism, which they do not do for money, but for professional purposes, deserves respect. In this care system, part of the number of night seats and part of the daytime hot spots are available, but there is no doubt that the system needs to be developed in certain areas, I have already pointed out that it is primarily in the area of health care, but there is a need for more social workers, and it is necessary to create the opportunity for those who are able to live independently. According to the information, about 20 percent of the people living there also have jobs, others live on pensions or occasional jobs. In addition to homelessness and homelessness, we also have to address the third issue if we want to see the problem as a whole, and this is the order and cleanliness of the public area. When we pay attention to the homeless person, who is in a situation where the state we see on the street is against human dignity, so he can't get out of this situation alone, and we have to help him, but at the same time we have to consider the man who is in the public area, who is waiting, walking, meeting, so he spends a slice of his life there, and there is no doubt that there are conditions that do not make this worthy. We must therefore defend the order of the public domain, and the legislative amendment that Parliament has adopted gives us the opportunity to do so. It is also true, of course, that this is not a matter of law enforcement, but of man, and human dignity must be enforced for both actors, for the homeless and for the society that uses public space as a whole. This is a question such as many other questions in our lives that the coin has two sides, and both have to be taken into account. Once again, I would like to thank those who are doing this difficult work on homelessness and to ensure that the system that has dealt with the people who have gone in there asking for help is working in a difficult situation: the person who is not seeking help, often rejecting it, must also be given the right conditions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, 15 October is indeed an important date, since this is when government measures and new legislation on homelessness come into force, and therefore, in these months, various state, civil and ecclesiastical organisations are prepared to carry out this task in the new legal environment and improve the situation of people who spend their everyday and weekends on the streets as homeless. We believe that we can really help these people, it is true respect for human dignity if the government provides an accessible supply system for everyone with sufficient capacity. In recent years, especially in the winter months, it has been found that the system provided by the state has always been able to supply those who have turned there. The government's constitutional and human obligation to spend the night as a homeless person, not on the streets, but on a homeless shelter, was in every case able to provide it, because in the coldest, most severe crisis, even when the code was to be declared, only 94 percent of the homeless shelters were filled, which means that there was still 6 percent of the capacity available, so the state has already fulfilled its obligation and will continue to provide everyone with accommodation, cleaning, rest, eating and other opportunities. Next year's budget also includes HUF 9 billion, and the government decided on an additional HUF 300 million surplus. The primary aim of this 300 million HUF surplus is to create so-called first reception facilities, where homeless people have accommodation, cleaning facilities, and social and health assistance, as well as because these people are often distrustful of the general care system, so we set up such first reception facilities. But this HUF 300 million also provides an opportunity to develop various institutions, institutions that have been working on homeless care. A total of 9800 accommodations are available, and as I said, this will never be fully exploited, including night shelters or temporary accommodation for homeless people, and during a crisis period we can set up 1,600 extra spaces and temporary capacity. According to the new amendments, they are organised in such a way that there is a 24-hour continuous reception at the institutions for both daytime and night services, so that the opening hours for daytime warmers are increased from 6 to 10 hours. In addition to these, as I said, 7,600 days of heat are at the disposal of people who spend their days on the streets. There is an extensive support system that helps homeless people to return to their daily lives, to the world of work, to help them get into a rental and then to their own apartments, and the public work programme is also an opportunity for them, so that both training and job opportunities are widely supported by the state. It is important for everyone to prevent frost deaths. I believe that there is little more clear and effective way to prevent further frost deaths in winter than these measures and the legislative amendment that will enter into force on 15th. We also know that many, as the group leader said, have health problems, whether physical or mental health problems. If I look only at the capital, the care provided to people in poor social conditions is used by 90 percent homeless people, with 80 chronic medical beds, 23 nursing beds and 20 chronic psychiatric beds available, and 5 24-hour GP clinics, precisely so that if you do not take classic care, you can get help here. I believe that the road to a better state will certainly lead to these people leaving the street. It is in the best interest of both hypocrites and the homeless who say that it is part of human dignity that someone can sleep on the streets and live there regularly. Living on the streets is not the fulfillment of human dignity, but it is to help them, help them get out of this situation, improve health and improve housing conditions. International studies show that homeless people's health is clearly a high risk to public health, speeding up the spread of diseases, which is why we need to help them with health and social care. It is our duty to give these people the opportunity to break out. To maintain the current unfair conditions, I think it's not legal protection, it's insensitive, the real help is precisely the [[Gergely Harvesto: Prison lockup!]] If we help these people break out of homelessness using state resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The border defence has applied for a speech before the agenda entitled 'Ours' from the Fidesz Group, Mr György Hubay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.00]]
u2018-10-02-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Hungary has come a long and difficult way to reach the point where it is able to effectively protect the borders of Hungary and the Schengen area from the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants arriving here. We have received numerous criticisms and attacks in recent years because the Government of Hungary is on the side of the Hungarian people and does not want to follow the policy of Brussels pro-immigration or the German Willkommenskultur. However, the pro-immigration battle has not been decided, we must stick to our position, we must fight this match, and we must change European policy in May. Today, both in the European Parliament and in the European Commission, there is an overwhelming majority of supporters of immigration, who are also a serious democracy problem, because they represent something that Europeans do not want. People in Europe feel that they are trying to force something on them against the will of the people. This is confirmed by the statements made by the Commissioner for Migration in Brussels in the United Nations on the new EU resettlement programme. Europeans expect their leaders to pour clean water and say that migration is considered right or wrong. Such an aggressive pro-immigration policy actually means a population exchange, fewer and fewer people in Europe are born and more and more strangers are brought here. Anyone who does not say that migration is a bad thing, even though they want to limit migration, cannot gain people's trust. There are European countries where politicians do not dare to represent people's opinions, but we do not. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Hallelujah!]] If we are attacked just because we are on the side of the Hungarian people, then everyone can be sure that we will respond with the right weight. Fidesz invites MEPs to take note of his speech at the UN on Dimitris Avramopulos, European Commissioner for Migration, on behalf of the European Commission. We have the right to know who gave him the authority to make this statement. He expressed his pro-immigration position as if there were full agreement between the Member States of the European Union, although this is not the case, and the Hungarian people have repeatedly stated this. In the United Nations, Avramopoulos urged EU Member States to honour their promises regarding the relocation or resettlement of immigrants, while, for example, our country never promised to do so. It is outrageous that they continue to force the European Asylum Agency to expand its powers, legislate illegal immigration, strengthen legal routes to Europe and support migrants' work in Europe. They talk about migration management and resettlement instead of trying to solve real problems. However, all their efforts, because Hungary will never give up and surrender the right to border protection, the Hungarians have clearly decided that immigrants cannot be allowed into the country, because immigration is a bad thing. The global package of the UN will exacerbate the migration situation, as it will provide a new incentive for millions of people to go on the road, so Hungary does not want to take part in any way in its adoption and does not regard it as a guide for itself. The package builds on a lying principle, saying that migration is a fundamental human right, but it is not. It is a fundamental human right to live in peace and tranquility in one's own country, and if the latter encounters an obstacle, it must be protected in the first possible safe place. [[A moment's pause. Szabolcs Szabó: What happened?! Interventions from the opposition: What happened?! Szabolcs Szabó: Soros! Intercoms from the opposition. Szabolcs Szabó: Soros' fault, he deleted the next line! Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why the National Security Committee has decided to discuss the parliamentary decision in response to the Sargentini report in a detailed debate and to initiate the hearing of the Constitutional Protection Office and the Counter-Terrorism Centre on the links between border protection and national security. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What about the settlement policy? Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Russians are already in the pantry!]] It is unacceptable for the Hungarian Soros network and the Hungarian opposition to divert attention from the real European debate with campaign bluffs, and so transparent [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Soros portals attack the Hungarian Prime Minister with campaign bluffs. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Which is the Soros portal?! Demercation and intervention from the opposition.]] I sincerely hope that our country will be able to endure this struggle and that by replacing the political elite in Brussels, we can still hope for a European Christian culture [[Gergely Arató: Do not the pro-government representatives have a timeframe?!]] in his continued survival. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-24	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, many of us have been in our lives when we have lost track for a moment. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No way! No way! Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Agnes Vadai: We don't do that.]] And yet it didn't turn out to be any kind of problem. I think that to abuse this thing, to make it a joke, it's not to a Member of Parliament. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Well, it happens!]] decent behaviour. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-25	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, I will also try to meet the delicate taste of opposition representatives [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You can't! Intercoms from the opposition.]] and give appropriate answers. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] We believe that the Hungarian government has taken the lead in dealing with the unprecedented migration crisis that has been affecting Europe since 2015, so we can say with a little confidence that we have ideas and we have ideas at European level about how to tackle this problem. [[Gergely Harvestó: These are the realizations!]] how this migratory pressure can be contained and eliminated. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Here I would like to highlight three things for you, in which we are definitely proposing to make progress, and that is what we want to put European policy into. One is the need to tackle this migration crisis in an infrastructure sense. This is why the Hungarian government has decided to build a physical border closure, and what we see when we think about the events that took place in Italy is that the maritime borders can also be protected. Therefore, since 2015, we have also been able to demonstrate that land border sections can be protected or that maritime border sections can also be protected. On the other hand, Brussels and the institutions of the European Union do not support the Member States in this regard; in the case of Hungary, we cannot expect more than 900 million euros to be reimbursed from the European Union, and at the cost of a long, one-year struggle, we are now in a position to expect a refund of EUR 50 million and see if this will be achieved in the future. The second important element is the management of the legal situation. Legal solutions must be developed that are capable of stopping people outside the Schengen borders of the European Union. The Hungarian legal border closure, which we have introduced, has proved in recent years that it enables Hungary to close the southern border and to establish a fair procedure in which we can distinguish between refugees and economic immigrants without them entering the Schengen area. On the other hand, we are under constant pressure from Brussels and the institutions of the European Union, and the direction of this pressure is to take away from Member States the legislative possibilities and powers relating to migration and asylum management. The last and most threatening example of this is Chancellor Merkel's statement of 13 September, who said that the crucial thing for the future of the EU is to find a common European solution. We do not like to hear this because we think that the common European solution is not about stopping the situation, but about catalysing it. Mrs Merkel said that it is necessary to strengthen Frontex, which should involve limiting the sovereignty of the Member States. We do not consider this a viable way, and we believe that the Hungarian solution has proved that the Member States are able to handle the migration crisis in their own hands, and moreover, the Hungarian Prime Minister has a Schengen 2.0 proposal to extend this solution at European level. And the third thing, honourable Member, is communication. We believe that communication in migration policy does matter. When I was in Turkey or on the Balkan route or in Libya, I found that people seeking Europe are waving statements from Chancellor Merkel and the leaders of the European Union, and they would like to come to Europe on this basis. So, yes, every politician has a responsibility. The speech by Commissioner Avramopoulos is therefore unacceptable, as it proposes the impact of continuing hundreds of thousands, millions of people thinking about trying to start a new life in the European Union. [[10.10]] I can inform Mr President that the Hungarian Government will defend the sovereignty of the country, stand by the powers, stand by the position of the migration critic, even if this does not please the majority of Brussels or the European Parliament, and in this we would like to ask for the support of the Member on behalf of the Hungarian Government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. It's 10:11 now. I'm ordering a recess until the announced decision-making date, which is 10:00 to 15 minutes, but I'm asking you to stay in your seats for a few minutes. [[It's a short break.]] Again, I welcome my fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I'm asking everyone to take their seats and make sure that your card is properly placed in the voting machine, because there are decisions to be made. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/628 on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests. Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the legislative proposal and the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote on the 20 July sitting, the national T/628/9. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The legislative committee's amendment before the final vote T/628/10 and its report before the final vote T/628/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/628/10. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/628/10. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 110 votes in favour, 37 against and 16 abstentions. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/628/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 50 against and 3 abstentions. Next up is the 1999 LXXVI on copyright. T/1358. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1358/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/1358/6 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.20]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1358/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1358/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/1356 of the Agreement establishing the International Organisation of EUROFISH. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[Dr. Miklós Kásler from the benches of MSZP and DK greets Dr. Miklós Kásler with cheer and applause. Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to speak with the right voice, but if you don't allow this to be made clear, it's unfortunate for you. The rapporteur is Mr T/1356/6. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network. T/1356/7. T/1356/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1356/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, 1 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1356/9. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next, the Memorial Day of the Farmers H/893. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/893/14. H/893/15 and H/893/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/893/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/893/16 will accept it. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. It is now coming between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border of the two countries, Ipolydamásd and Helemba amending the Agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities signed on 27 February 2012 T/813 on the announcement of an amendment Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/813. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 178 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now coming to the conclusion of the Protocol amending the European Landscape Convention and of the 2007 CXI on the publication of the European Landscape Convention in Florence on 20 October 2000. T/1355. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1355 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 175 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. We now have T/1357 on the announcement of the Agreement on police cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1357 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 178 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the T/1359 Convention between Hungary and the Portuguese Republic on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information is being published. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1359 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and 11 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the declaration of the 2020 Trianon Memorial Year by István Szávay and Gergely Farkas. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 47 votes to 47, 11 votes against and 119 abstentions. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches. Intervention from the same place: The Great National Government!]] Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now, please remain in your seats until the President of the Republic arrives in the box of honor. [[Dr. János Áder and his delegation arrive at the Presidential Box.]] I would ask my fellow Members to stand and welcome President of the Republic, János Áder, who is now taking his place in the box of honour. Welcome, President of the Republic. [[The people in the room are standing up to welcome Dr. János Áder.]] Please, have a seat. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.30]] Thank you very much, fellow Members, for these few moments of pause. It is now time to begin the general debate on the proposal for a decision on the Second National Climate Strategy for the period 2017-2030 with a view to 2050. The government referral is H/385. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that during the opening of the general debate, the President of the Republic will make his speech, the opening speech by his author and the speeches by the lead speaker. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. Dear Parliament, President János Áder announced that he wanted to speak in the debate on the proposal. I would like to ask Mr János Áder, President of the Republic, to come to the speaker's stand, to give his speech, and I would ask my fellow Members to sit in their seats and listen to the President of the Republic's speech. [[Dr. János Áder enters the speaker's stand. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Mr President of the Republic. You have the floor, please.
u2018-10-02-27	We don't have time to waste. The Earth was given to us as a paradise by the Creator, not to future generations as a wild wasteland. Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, Pope Francis warned this in June this year when he met with the leaders of the largest oil companies. That the papal warning was also timely, we could be convinced in the summer behind us: hot records, hot flashes, forest fires, severe drought damage in many countries of Europe, California, Australia; devastating floods in North and South Carolina, Laos, Vietnam, China. And with new research results, the representatives of science have made it clear that the equilibrium that has characterized the planet in the last ten thousand years has been achieved in sixty years. We know that in Earth's history, warmer and colder periods have changed, but human activity has brought about 20 times as rapid warming as ever before in Earth's history. So more and more people ask, "How do we save the planet?" But the right question, in my opinion, is: how do we save human civilization? How do we avoid a climate disaster that threatens all of us? How do we avoid the situation that happened once in the history of our planet, right, three million years ago? At that time, the earth's surface temperature was three degrees warmer, and the most careful estimates indicate that the sea's water level is nine metres higher. Imagine how many hundreds of millions of people's homes and lives would be threatened if it happened again. If we continue on the road we have been on for the past 150 years, especially over the past 60 years, then by the end of this century, in just 80 years, the situation will be that there is no turning back from. After the danger was great, our time was running out, and our responsibility was increasing as time progressed, I considered it important to ask for a third time here in Parliament. You are now starting a debate on a proposal that concerns parliamentary cycles and cross-generational issues. There is no right- or left-wing, no pro-government or opposition climate change. If there is one issue in which we share, and we should not be afraid of the word, we must have a national position, then the issue that we are discussing is certainly one. Environmental sustainability cannot be indifferent to any citizen of our country. Seeing the danger, three years ago in Paris, world leaders agreed to do their best to ensure that temperatures do not rise more than two degrees. However, over the last three years, CO2 emissions have not decreased, but even increased significantly. If we go on this path, we will make a significant part of the Earth a desert with all the dramatic social, economic, health and political consequences. Dear House, Scientific research shows that the Carpathian Basin is one of Europe's most vulnerable areas for climate change. We can expect record-breaking floods, long weeks of heat waves in the future. We must adapt and defend ourselves. There is therefore good reason for creating an ambitious strategy. The starting position of Hungary is still particularly favourable today, since we are among the 21 countries in the world that have been able to increase their total national product since 1990 while reducing CO2 emissions. If we look at emissions per capita, Hungary is the sixth in the European Union. The Germans have nearly twice our per capita emissions, and the United States has three and a half times that. I am glad that in the last two years, unfortunately, CO2 emissions have also increased in Hungary. However, with an ambitious and consistently implemented climate strategy, we can eliminate this vargabe. To this end, the increase in solar power capacity needs to be continued. The good news is that this performance has doubled every year in Hungary over the past four years. The good news is that it is now possible to make such investments without State aid. If we want to make our energy production carbon-free, to be more precise: largely carbon-free, and this is an elemental condition, since two thirds of emissions are related to this sector, then we cannot give up nuclear energy today. The combined use of solar and nuclear power can result in 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production being carbon-free by 2030. If anyone has any doubts, they will study the report of the International Energy Agency, which clearly states that the objectives of Paris cannot be achieved without the use of nuclear power. Dear House, So far, I've been talking about the dangers climate change poses to all of us. But today we have the opportunity to turn need into virtue. If we adapt in time, if we change our consumption habits, if we look at our natural environment with due humility and just use it, we do not want to take advantage of it, if we apply climate-friendly technologies, if we always focus on preserving the quality of land, water and air in the modernisation of our agriculture and industry, then we will certainly not be on the side of the losers. Today, it is still a realistic goal to ensure the protection of our environment by a successful climate strategy, the conditions for further economic growth, the improvement of our competitiveness, the modernisation and technological change of industry, especially energy, and the improved quality of life at the same time. [[10.40]] What do you need for all this? First of all, change your mind. We have to break up with the, we use it for a short period of time, then we throw it away by using it as waste, not as recyclable raw material. We need to improve the efficiency of our energy and material use and encourage the technological change that makes this possible. Increase efficiency, transform existing systems, develop new forms of production and consumption. I'll give you an example of each of them. First: increasing efficiency. Most of our household devices are outdated, they consume twice or three times as much energy as their more modern offspring. A well-organised exchange operation, supported by the State, entails significant energy savings and emission reductions. Secondly, the transformation of systems already in place. Social transport is our example. First, we need to transform urban transport and then interurban transport. The development of electric transport not only improves the quality of life of city dwellers, but also results in significant reductions in emissions. Thirdly, the development of new forms of production and consumption, the creation of a circular economy. The aim is to make as much waste as possible a recyclable raw material. This will not only reduce the environmental burden, but much less new resources will have to be used. So nature can replace the resources we borrow and use. What are the circumstances that underpin an ambitious climate strategy? The Parliament adopted the predecessor of this proposal ten years ago. Let's see what's happened since then. In the last ten years, the cost of electricity produced by solar cells has decreased by 86 percent. Bloomberg analysts predict an additional 70% reduction by 2040. Ten years ago, we haven't seen an electric car on the roads, and today there are 3 million running around the world. Not much, you can say, but according to the International Energy Agency's forecast, the number of electric cars could increase to up to 200 million by 2030. Energy storage has also become much cheaper in ten years. The price of lithium-ion batteries decreased by 79 percent, only by 24 percent last year. The flow of financial resources from traditional fossil energy production to wind and solar industry has been spectacularly accelerated over the last decade. In 2016, more solar power plants in the world were built than coal power plants. Dear Parliament, Hungary today has a reason and opportunity to implement a bold, ambitious, ambitious climate strategy. Not only because we Hungarians here in the Carpathian Basin, as I just referred to, feel the effects of climate change exponentially, and not only because of the changes that have taken place in recent decades, we are in a better starting position than other European countries, but also because the citizens of Hungary expect us to do so. According to a poll 83 percent of Hungarians! Considers climate change a very serious problem. Those who think so will surely be allies in the implementation of the strategy, as our county-righted cities and our capital are already allies. Two years ago, the 23 county-righted city joined the global initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by 2050. Detailed plans must be made for the city leaders from Kaposvár to Szeged, from Győr to Debrecen. Dear Parliament, Sir Winston Churchill once said, "It is always wise to look forward, but it is difficult to look further than we can provide. So let's look further. Don't just see the numbers, percentages and target dates of the proposal before you, but rather the social benefits of a successful climate strategy. The most ambitious goal is to reduce our CO2 emissions by 85% by 2050 compared to 1990. What do we gain if we choose this path? Less emissions, which will make the air cleaner, are good news in itself. If the air is cleaner, there will be less respiratory disease. Remember, 3 million people in the world and 13,000 people in Hungary lose their lives prematurely because of air pollution. If fewer people get sick, the costs thus saved can be used to improve other health benefits. At the same time, the modernisation shift will improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, new industries will be strengthened, new jobs will be created. This will also affect the training and education of young people. Remember, Hungary's good climate positions are already generating significant revenue for the budget. Last year, we will have about HUF 20 billion in quota sales, and this year we are expected to receive more than HUF 70 billion in revenue. Finally, at the beginning of my speech, I said that today, not the planet must be saved, but human civilization. Not the planet, but ourselves, the future of our children and grandchildren. The question is whether we can look our children and grandchildren in the eye and see if we need to blush and explain. If we make the right decision, then as Pope Francis asked us to do, the Earth that the Creator gave us can be passed on not as a wild wilderness, but as a paradise. [[A big round of applause. Dr. János Áder returns to the Presidential box.]]
u2018-10-02-28	Dear Parliament, I thank the President of the Republic for his speech. The opening speech of the author of the item on the agenda now follows. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech in place. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-10-02-29	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Global climate change is a threat to human society, partly due to the functioning of our society today. Just as good diagnosis, prevention and intervention play a key role in the prevention of disease risks in relation to global climate change. The opening of the debate on the second national climate change strategy on the Parliament's table is a major development because it wants to respond to the issue of global climate change in Hungary's interests. The strategy contains the proposals and steps needed to reduce the risks of climate change at home. The adoption of a national climate change strategy is crucial. The measures included will help us to reduce the effects of climate change, protect Hungarian people from the dangers caused by global warming, and preserve and protect our forests, our waters, our land, our wildlife, and provide the citizens of Hungary with good living conditions in the long term. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, The climate system is the primary shaper of our life on Earth. Its change is not a new phenomenon, as the cyclicality of gradually decreasing and increasing solar radiation and the various levels of atmospheric response warming and cooling has been demonstrated by climate scientists and geophysics for hundreds of thousands of years. As is also known, the relative periodicity of warm and cold periods has an impact on the living world, including human civilization. However, man himself has an increasing impact on the natural processes of our planet's climate system and thus on its ecological balance. Increasing consumption and recovery due to population explosion also contribute to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The effects of an increase in global average temperature are already reflected in concrete environmental changes, and action at global level is therefore inconvenient. But what exactly does this mean for the climate and population of the Carpathian Basin? Earth's current average temperature is XX. 1 °C higher than the average temperature of the century. This value does not seem to be high compared to daily temperature fluctuations. But think of the extent to which it will change your well-being if your body temperature changes a degree or two. So, what should we expect in the future, based on the models used to estimate the expected climatic characteristics? At present, it is likely that the average temperature in Hungary will continue to rise as a result of global processes, despite all our efforts and future efforts. When considering the future, it is also important to consider that the Carpathian Basin is more exposed to climate change than the average of the planet because of its location and geographical relationship. Although realistic results can only be achieved at global level in the effective management of climate change and its impacts, local responses can and should be provided. These tasks include the preparation of national climate strategies. Hungary's first national climate change strategy for the period 2008-2025 was adopted by the Parliament in 2008. For the strategy adopted, the National Climate Change Programme has been completed, setting out the specific measures related to the objectives identified in the strategy and the tasks to be carried out. At the same time, every year we have greater knowledge of the complex phenomenon of climate change, and we also have more and more accurate measurements. In addition to this, the ever-changing technological, political and legal environment will need to be reviewed and updated as necessary. In view of this, a review of the strategy was carried out in 2013 in accordance with the legal requirements at the time and a draft second national climate change strategy adapted to real economic and climate policy developments. However, the 2030 framework for climate and energy adopted by the European Council in October 2014, the provisions of the UN Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015 and the EU commitments made on this basis have led the Government to consider the draft strategy. In view of all this, the Government has reviewed the previous text. The Second National Climate Change Strategy for the period 2017-2030, which has been added and adapted to the new commitments, has been presented to the Honourable Parliament in the spring of 2017. I believe that it is an important event for everyone that the parliamentary debate on the strategy will begin today, just more than two weeks after Hungary has deposited the instrument of ratification of the Kigali amendment to the Montreal Protocol on the occasion of the World Ozone Day, which now includes dates of release for severe greenhouse fluorinated gases. I hope that this House will also support the proposal for a resolution on the agenda. Why do I trust this so much? Because I believe that it must be in our common interest that, in the context of climate change, Hungary should enter a forward-looking, rational path in terms of climate policy, characterised by market penetration and leadership in a smart adaptation context. Therefore, the fight against climate change and the development of essential technologies in order to combat climate change can strengthen our country's economic and diplomatic weight in the world, linked to and along with global trends. So far, the country has not sufficiently exploited its potential to contribute to climate change mitigation, and the strategy puts increased emphasis on this. There is a need for a comprehensive change of approach to the concept of competitiveness, including by changing the range of supported economic sectors and by developing them in future sectors. As Hungary has set a good example, GDP growth does not have to go hand in hand with the increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The dynamic implementation of the inevitable and strict climate targets can therefore create a favourable marginal condition for Hungary, which will guide future domestic investments and at the same time create serious economic opportunities. In my view, Hungary has a significant development and technological potential that can be exploited in terms of its contribution to climate change mitigation. It is therefore of particular importance that the development of the technology that is not yet in place for transformation, i.e. green innovation, for example, in the field of energy storage solutions, should be the strength of the Hungarian industry, as a targeted incentive for this will also result in foreign market success. I would remind you that, by adopting the Paris Agreement, virtually all countries in the world have made emission reduction commitments, which create enormous technological shifts and other investment needs. I would like to add that on this climate policy path, our country can build on the high emission reduction results so far and further increase the purity and carbon neutrality of the Hungarian energy mix. Hungary's competitiveness can even be further strengthened by the tightening conditions of materials and pollution barriers by providing further impulses to innovation and by means of new, innovative technologies, it can meet these standards before its competitors. They can also be the cause of the recovery of sectoral technological innovation and the shift towards more exportable alternative, more efficient solutions. A number of financial mechanisms can help Hungary to achieve all these goals within the framework of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. These funds are expected to be worth several hundred billion forints between 2021 and 2030, the proper selection of which can significantly contribute to the development of the domestic energy system, its transition to carbon-neutral and clean energies, also increasing the competitiveness of our country. Moreover, the new Innovation Fund will be available to all Member States from 2020. This will allow us to support the feasibility of large-scale demonstration projects for renewable energy, carbon capture and storage and low-emission industrial innovation. I trust that the country's innovation power can help us to create as many successful Hungarian project projects as possible, and that their implementation will build the most modern facilities in Hungary, which could provide useful experience capital for further investments. It is important that the resources needed for investments cannot be provided solely by EU or Member State support. It is therefore essential to make the involvement of market enterprises, private investors, more attractive to this transformation. The Paris Agreement is also a pioneering goal to bring the flow of financial resources into line with efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve resilience to climate change. This objective calls for the involvement of the entire international financial sector in order to provide adequate support for climate-friendly processes. With regard to climate finance, it is important to highlight the requirement in the Paris Agreement that developed countries should play a leading role in supporting climate action in developing countries. From the point of view of Hungary, this also brings national security benefits. Climate change is a phenomenon that enhances existing global problems, such as hunger and phenomena such as migration. Appropriate and thought-out climate financing measures can reduce the negative impact of climate change on the ecosystem, the world economy and society and help to address the challenges facing developing countries rather than moving to Europe. In addition, in close connection with what has been said so far, it is absolutely necessary to say that, as a result of the signing and ratification of the Paris Agreement by our country, not only the renewal of the national climate change strategy has become inevitable, but it is also necessary to establish a new energy strategy in order to create a consumer- and climate-friendly energy sector. In the eight years that have passed since the adoption of the national energy strategy by Parliament in 2011, significant global energy market and climate change policy changes have taken place that anticipate a major transformation of the European and hence the domestic energy market and justify the creation of a new energy strategy. Increasing the security of domestic consumers' energy supply, ensuring affordable prices of clean energy, meeting the European Union's 2030 targets, and implementing the work of the Paris Agreement and the Clean Energy package for all Europeans and harnessing the economic development potential of energy innovation can only be achieved through the deployment of cost-effective and low greenhouse gas emission technologies. In addition to maintaining nuclear power plant production levels in order to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity of electricity production, renewable and low carbon production are key. [[11.00]] Hungary can thus maintain its low emission intensity. We can witness a solar revolution in Hungary. We expect a rapid rise in solar energy use in the coming years, the conversion of district heating to renewable energy sources has also begun, and the investment in Paks is important not only for the security of domestic energy supply, but also for the creation of a climate-friendly energy sector. It can therefore be said that the climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector is also our long-term goal, by providing smart and affordable energy services, by further strengthening our security of supply and by exploiting the economic development potential of energy innovation and climate change. Dear Parliament, The second national climate change strategy is based on a three-level target system, taking into account what has already been said: a system of comprehensive, thematic and specific objectives. Overall goals, namely survival and sustained development in a changing world, as well as knowledge of our talents, limitations and opportunities, are the cornerstones of the strategy. The thematic objectives summarise the more detailed and specific implementation of the overall objectives, such as decarbonisation, territorial assessment of climatic vulnerability, adaptation and preparation, and the development of climate partnership. The specific objectives set targets for each sector and the corresponding time horizon. Close alignment with the objectives set out in further strategic documents is one of the key keys to achieving the objectives set out in the Second National Climate Change Strategy. The target and instrument system of the strategy thus allows the use of EU financial resources for climate protection purposes. As an example, I can mention the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme for effective adaptation to climate change, through which climate strategies have been developed at county level through the management of county climate change platforms. In addition, under this operational programme, local climate strategies will reach nearly 3 million Hungarian compatriots. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The national decarbonisation roadmap for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the national adaptation strategy for adaptation to climate change set out in the Second National Climate Change Strategy will also contribute to the achievement of the European Union's common climate policy objectives by preparing forecasts and drawing up forward-looking measures. The implementation of the decarbonisation roadmap is also linked to the European Union's 2030 climate and energy framework. With the implementation of the Roadmap, Hungary will gradually move to a low-carbon economy on a path that takes account of economic competitiveness and growth, social welfare and the fight against poverty as well as climate protection. On the basis of the Roadmap, the primary driver of the transition is not the intention to comply with international obligations, but the achievement of the national strategy goals for sustainable development, in particular the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, the expansion of material and energy-saving technologies and the dissemination of renewable energy sources. With the adoption of the second National Climate Change Strategy, we will have a further task of preparing an action plan for a period of three years to meet the objectives set out in the Strategy. This Action Plan will include, in addition to defining the specific measures needed to achieve the objectives, a monitoring and evaluation system. Dear Parliament, Climate change is a complex, environmental and socio-economic challenge that threatens the quantity and quality of the natural resources at our disposal at global level. The implementation of the strategy contributes to the long-term preservation of the living conditions of the Carpathian Basin, our water supply, our agricultural land, our forests and our diverse wildlife, which is a national strategic interest. I believe that an appropriate response to climate change at an ever-increasing rate can only be achieved through coordinated, long-term concepts and their implementation. It is known by all of us that our country was the first to ratify the Paris Agreement in spring 2016, with a unanimous parliamentary decision within the European Union. Once again, by adopting the strategy before you now, we can be among the first to put a fully Paris-compatible strategy on the table. If all of this is achieved, Hungary will be able to take a final course by 2030 to ensure a sustainable and climate-resistant future. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal for a resolution, the second national climate change strategy attached thereto. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-02-30	Thank you, Minister. Mr President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-02-31	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A key strategic document on the transition to sustainability has been put on the agenda. Due to a series of failures in global efforts to reduce emissions, we have to prepare for significant adverse effects, in some opinions, on human civilization. This reduction requires a further reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, as well as a professional planning and implementation of unavoidable adaptation. There is therefore a need for a comprehensive vision of social policy and economic development, based on a professional and social consensus, on which current policy contradictions and incompatible objectives can be resolved, providing production and life-frame models for climate change challenges, in line with traditions and modern knowledge. Hungary needs a strategy that explores the opportunities that make adaptation feasible as an economic driving force rather than a burden. In agreement with the thoughts expressed by the Minister as his rapporteur, we must strive to draw a rational course that will help to strengthen the country's economic and diplomatic weight. As a general and comprehensive goal, we need to ensure national and social survival and sustained development in a world undergoing rather rapid change. Dear Parliament, We can only overcome the natural, social and economic crisis caused by climate change with a systemic view and the correct choice of centres of gravity. In addition to the overall objectives, thematic objectives need to be defined. The innovative structure of the climate change strategy before us will help to identify the points of gravity in itself. Despite the fact that Hungary has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 40% over the last quarter of a century, we need further efforts to make our own contribution to global burden sharing. Nevertheless, the primary driver of the domestic decarbonisation road map, as Minister said, is not to fulfil international obligations. In particular, it must meet the national strategic objectives of the transition to sustainability. The reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, the expansion of material and energy-saving technologies and the proliferation of renewable energy sources are indeed necessary and should also be taken into account to correct the national energy strategy. Dear Minister, It is proposed that the implementation of the domestic decarbonisation roadmap, which includes the objectives and action directions for greenhouse gas emission reduction, be implemented as part of a strategic framework based on balanced consideration of the aspects of competitiveness, technology change and climate protection. The Decarbonisation Roadmap should also be based on the principle of international cooperation on sustainable development enshrined in the Fundamental Law and on a policy of national interest based on careful consideration of the social costs and benefits of emission reduction. Priority should be given to solutions with other environmental, social or economic benefits than reducing greenhouse gas emissions. [[11.10]] For example, the energy modernisation of public institutions involves not only reducing emissions, but also saving energy and therefore financial savings, and making the public services concerned safer and more comfortable, whether they are crèches, kindergartens, schools, hospitals or social homes. But similar additional benefits can come from the storage and use of large water from dangerous flood waves for irrigation purposes. We must also pay attention to the fact that different sectors of the national economy are capable of achieving different levels of emission reductions. We cannot overburden agriculture for our food security for example, but industrial ecology and the interconnection of materials flows have many opportunities. That is why we believe it is important that climate policy is transferred to the innovation portfolio to which it is also responsible for coordinating the economic strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the significant exposure of the Carpathian Basin, the negative impacts of climate change should also increase the weight of adaptation in domestic climate policy and public information. In Hungary, regional inequalities of different nature and causes can be observed: education, health status, the number of companies all affect the adaptability of an area, a region or a settlement. These territorial differences may further deepen the impact of climate change, as regions are vulnerable to change in different ways and to different degrees. It is essential to learn, analyse their scientific background and develop action plans to adapt to more frequent extreme events at sectoral and territorial level. That is why we are proposing that the necessary government support be given to research and development activities in preparation for climate change and that we pay particular attention to the exploitation of the results achieved. That is why, nearly five years ago, my colleagues and I created the geoinformation system, the national adaptation spatial information system, which, by analysing exposure, sensitivity and capacity for adaptation, helps to identify vulnerability and develop a good strategy based on it. My fellow Members, allow me, in particular, to welcome my former colleagues in this Chamber, who have taken part in the establishment of the strategic framework that we have just discussed. Working at the National Adaptation Centre within the framework of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service, they have been the ones who, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, provided methodological support to the county and local authorities in order to prepare their regional and local climate strategies. Thank you, thank you for the responsibility of the local authorities that have made a major effort to use the financial resources currently available by EU and domestic proposals in order to promote climate protection and appropriate adaptation in their development. As part of the strategic framework, we should therefore also mention the chapter that highlights the importance of public administration, the media, education, awareness-raising and the presentation of good practices. Dear Parliament, If you look at how NÉS-2 represents a noticeable change compared to the previous strategy, you can summarize it below. It requires close contact with other horizontal and sectoral strategies, so it can play an important role in the domestic planning system. It contains more detailed and proportionate current mitigation and adaptation efforts, target systems and their hierarchy. It also places greater emphasis on thinking. It explores the effects of climate change on the basis of accepted scientific methods. It takes into account territorial differences in identifying impacts and vulnerability. It also takes into account the importance of the monitoring system as it is necessary to measure the actual impact of mitigation and adaptation actions in order to make the necessary corrections and to monitor the consistency of the different action actions. Finally, it will be possible to examine and analyse the domestic trends, impacts and opportunities for mitigation and adaptation, as well as the achievement of the relevant objectives. Dear Parliament, Mr President of the Republic. Dear Minister, Finally, we would like to make one more recommendation to the government. Synergies between the national climate change strategy and other policy strategies and plans should be established. In developing current or future policy strategies, action plans and programmes, the relevant climate protection aspects should be taken into account and included in the relevant policy strategy or action plans. Taking all of this into account, the two main overarching objectives that Minister said in the House's walls will be ensured: survival at national and social level and the country's long-term growth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-33	[[Without a microphone from the pulpit:]] Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Speaker, [[Intercoms: No sound! We can't hear you! The sound system is restored.]] Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that every strategy is worth as much as it is implemented, and it may sound cliché, but it is true, as it is. They sounded very good, the sentences that President János Áder said about the platform from here were very nice, but unfortunately we have to see that the government action that we have experienced over the past eight years is almost the opposite of what has been said here in very nice sentences and pompous sentences. And the fact that he represents the issue of climate protection and the fight against climate change on the international stage is very respectful and to be thanked by the President of the Republic, but unfortunately, and perhaps this is not only his fault, he has not succeeded in achieving results at home that his own government, or the government that put him in the chair of the Republic, can convince him how important the fight against climate change is, and the actions of the government often show the opposite. The fight against climate change is an issue based on international cooperation, whether at European Union or global level. With regard to Hungary's foreign policy, it started towards isolation rather than at European level, as it is starting to take on the role of the black sheep in the European Union as well as with the United Nations, we have seen that it has fought and used the attack on the UN for government purposes and propaganda steels, which is obviously one of the most important bodies in the fight against climate change in recent years and will obviously continue in the future, as the countries that want to fight climate protection will join together in this organisation. In Hungarian, in summary, it is possible to say that Hungary should not be isolated, but be isolated. [[11.20]] We have often said here in Parliament how badly Hungary's building stock is in energy terms, and how important it is to start programmes of a magnitude larger than the current one for improving energy efficiency and insulation of buildings. So I would like to draw the government's attention to the need not to isolate the country, but to isolate it, and we would like this goal to be achieved. The President of the Republic has also said that in recent years we have been sixth in terms of greenhouse gas emissions per capita in the European Union, i.e. increased and not reduced. So as far as the government's green policy is concerned, how the current government is involved in meeting climate protection targets, this indicator is very good at supporting the increase in greenhouse gas emissions in recent years. We've become a kind of a "supplier" society. This was also mentioned by the President of the Republic. In recent decades, the use of disposable disposable devices in consumer society has become very popular. It is very talkative when the country image itself appears in the international press through a disposable device, a disposable pant diaper, and it is displayed on this road by the person who should do so for the country's image and for the international judgment, either informally or through tourism. So the government has a very high responsibility, a great responsibility, of course, for the circles behind the government, whether business or social, in the direction in which the Orbán government is being moved in the field of environmental protection and climate policy. For now, it seems that this is not happening in the right direction. Viktor Orbán himself, in fact, said and unspoken, but does not care about the environmental issue, perhaps he accepts as a necessary evil that he exists, but tries to care as little as possible. Of course, as head of a kind of urizing, helicoptering, private flying, reindeer-hunting government, anyone who tries to believe at international level that Hungary does give to environmental protection is not easy to do, as the ecological footprint of Garancsi's machine is probably much bigger than, say, a passenger car or even a train or any other means of public transport. It is very important, however, that a Prime Minister alone will not be less, nor will his dignity be damaged if he takes into account environmental protection and climate protection as an aspect of his daily transport. I would like to come with the example of the Dutch Prime Minister, who travels by bicycle, and I do not think that would make it any smaller than Viktor Orbán. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. János Halász: Woe! Further interruptions from the benches of the ruling parties.]] And I don't think his dignity, let's say, would be more damaged by it. [[György Balla: What did you come with today? Bana Tibor to György Balla: Don't be nervous.]] that he takes climate protection more seriously than his Hungarian colleague. [[Constant noise from the benches of the governing parties. György Balla: What are you doing here? Tibor Bana: Are you nervous? Further intervention from the pro-government benches: You are very weak!]] Indeed, it should be a good example for the members of the government and for you as pro-government representatives to take the lead in this area, if such a... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's gonna ring the bell. György Balla: What did you come to Parliament with today?]] My fellow Member, calm down, you have also had the opportunity to make your speech as a keynote speaker. So a Prime Minister must set a good example and, of course, the members of the government. We were talking about electric cars. It is very important that electric driving is becoming more and more widespread, which is otherwise good and positive, especially for the air quality of the capital, especially cities. However, it doesn't matter, of course, how the electric current we load into these cars as fuel, in which power plants it came into being. This is only a step forward, and it is not a local solution, but a full solution if it is produced from renewable energy sources and at least from climate-friendlyly neutral sources of energy the electricity we use is produced. At the moment, Hungary could even say how environmentally conscious its power plant park is, as coal power plants are becoming increasingly degraded, old and closed. However, when there is a day to cover up to 50 percent of our electricity consumption by imports, and when imports come from Ukraine, where most of them are still produced in coal power plants using fossil fuels, this may seem a little more environmentally friendly within a country, but if you look at the whole picture again, it is not. So it seems like a bit of a pretense politics. What must be achieved is that we can cover our electric energy use as much as possible from domestic use and from renewable energy as possible. Of course, from a climate-friendly point of view, nuclear power should also be included. Food for eight billion people is no small thing. At the moment, Hungary is an agricultural country, and in food production and food production, it is successfully resisting GMO fights and seeks to provide healthy food production and production to Hungarian people. However, this will be a very critical issue in the coming decades, since, if you look at the meat industry, its ecological footprint is extremely high. As a carnivorous man, I say that it is obvious that no one can be used to plant eating or vegan eating, but it is important to pay attention to the fact that agriculture is one of the most climate-powered gas-emitting sectors and that agriculture has to pay the utmost attention to it, since eight billion people have to be fed on Earth tomorrow, how we can reduce it as much as possible or make agriculture as effective as possible. The solar revolution has also been discussed. Indeed, there is such a tendency to grow in Hungary. There's a place to grow, because you had to grow from almost zero to the number of solar parks installed. This is very commendable, but it would also be good if these solutions joined all the country's full energy systems, and Hungary would increasingly switch to a smart energy network. Because this is a condition for as much renewable energy as possible to be implanted into the system, so that the energy network itself is capable of eliminating the fluctuations that renewable energy sources represent. There have been no significant steps towards moving smart grids in the country in recent years, although it is clear that this is the future. Especially considering that we will increasingly move from large power plants to local energy in the coming decades. There is an increasing number of households, small communities, which produce electricity for their own community with solar energy, wind power, other renewable energy sources, and, of course, they want to feed the excess back into the network. To do so, however, we need to make our network much more flexible and suitable than it currently is. There may have been a question of water issues. A very, very important part of the fight against climate change is the preparation to prevent the effects of climate change. Because whatever commitments we can make, the trend has already started, the trend is on, the average temperature is increasing, and we can see that weather phenomena and precipitation distribution are becoming increasingly extreme in Hungary as well. There are days, weeks, when almost a large proportion of the total annual precipitation falls at the same time in the form of a rainstorm, followed by droughts. So there is no even precipitation distribution, and the current water balance and water management of Hungary is simply not prepared for this. We are prepared at some level, because this is what water has been focused on over the last decades, so that we can take out the waters and floods as quickly as possible. This is very important from a disaster management point of view, but it obviously has a negative impact on our water retention capability, because it may need that water supply a few weeks later. We don't have the reservoir capacity, we don't have the water system to balance this hectic precipitation distribution. We have to be prepared for this. Even a thousand years ago, our ancestors knew how to use water, which suddenly flows across the country, since 95 percent of our rivers come from abroad, 95 percent of the water on our rivers, how to keep as much of it as possible. This degree management worked thousands of years ago, even hundreds of years ago. Obviously, there are barriers to this these days, because this has taken huge areas, and obviously civilization and the environment of integration are completely different from at the moment. However, the new solutions to water retention, the development of technology, should be taken into account and should also be taken into account by practical actions in this direction. Therefore, not only should it be said at theoretical conferences how important water retention would be for later periods of drought, but also to do so in order to achieve it. Rainwater drainage also causes huge problems at local level, at municipal level, inadequately solved, and we can also see that there are problems with internal drainage, because for decades, rainwater drainage ditches that have existed for centuries have been ploughed in, have been removed over the last decades, and they need to be redesigned and recreated in order not to threaten Hungary. [[11.30]] I have been very involved in the details, but overall, to sum up, we have to say that the trend that characterizes the governance of the last eight years, the activities of the Orbán government, is rather a negative trend, since we can see the breakdown of the institutional system constantly. The separate environmental authority, the independent ombudsman's office and much more, the organisation related to climate policy, environmental protection and water has been closed down over the past decades only if, let's just say, Vitukira had important tasks and had important databases that, apparently, were not important enough for the current government. We hope that this trend will reverse and take a positive direction, and that if I have criticized the government's activities in the last 15 minutes, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 13!]] Despite that! we would, of course, like to be partners with the government, by adopting this proposal, by adopting the strategy and by supporting the proposal for a decision, and in all other ways, as we have already done, that if you wish to take such steps, that if you wish to take such steps, we will always be there, and we will always give you our supporting vote for this. However, as a opposition party, it is of course an important task to draw attention to the shortcomings as well, and unfortunately there is much more than a positive initiative at the moment, a positive step, but of course we are here, my fellow Members, and of course we should try to adopt such proposals with a full consensus above the parties throughout the Parliament, and to make constructive proposals that the environment is indeed the next time that the President of the Republic talks about Hungary at an international forum, indeed after a while, I hope, after years, he can support Hungary's fight against climate change with a series of positive examples from his own country as well. Our further comments will be presented in the rest of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-10-02-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Republic. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the first national climate change strategy was provided for in the 2007 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework. In line with international commitments, for the first time the climate change strategy had to be developed for the period 2008-2025, which was adopted by the Parliament ten years ago in 2008. Following this review, the strategy, which is now ahead of us, has been prepared with an outlook for 2050, which already contains the principles of the new global so-called Paris agreement agreed at the Paris Climate Summit at the end of 2015. The strategy, the principles and the related documents have been discussed before me, and I would like to discuss basically two things: the underlying content and the everyday points of accession. The material is complex, long and very important, it means more to us Christian democrats than a legislative process, it is about creation protection and responsibility. We have a mission: to protect the values of the created world, and to leave our children, our grandchildren, a planet that is livable, developing, and pure. Our sense of responsibility for protecting our environment also comes from our view of the world. If we do not move in time, the heat, unpredictable weather, climate change will affect the society of the future by transforming our world as we know it today in the spirit of chaos. We hope that all major players will work together to protect our future, the future of our children, through party politics, while looking at the empty benches of opposition, it is important to point out that we can only have hope in this for the time being. We see and see that the environmental crisis cannot be overcome by the individual, bearing in mind an increase in one's own benefits. Caring about nature requires community thinking, and responsibility for the common good is particularly high when we move in this area. For us, it has always been important to strengthen communities, to have a community mindset, so I think it is worth bringing this line into this topic. The present strategy and the resulting action plans also want to help shape man's thinking, the individualistic approach must be replaced by a sense of responsibility for the community. The environment, to be more precise: the natural environment has not shown its relevance to human care during the centuries of history. Man could have used it, lived up to his possessions and treasures, even forgetting that he had a job as a farmer and guardian. This condition, measured in historical perspectives, has changed and changed only recently, but at a higher speed, starting with the increase in human numbers, industrialization, the scarcity of some of the environmental assets, the deterioration of the quality of the environment. From the second half of the last century, the environment, as the main actor, began to perform on the stage of the world order systems, whose health is crying out more and more clearly for healing. Various reports and scientific analyses have made it clear that our natural environment is not infinite, where we like to roam, think about rainforest cuts, greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere during industrialisation, carbon dioxide, which causes global climate change, our waste disposal and processing problems, over-use, oversized Earth's ecological footprint, rapid decline in species wealth, difficult to manage pollution, human diseases caused by environmental problems, and the problem of genetically manipulated organisms! So we are not facing an infinite system, but a finite system, in which all actors, human and nature, their laws, their impact on each other, material and energy flows must be taken into account and dealt with in a spirit of cultivation and preservation. Dear House, The living conditions of man and his environment depend on man's ability to exercise his profession of culture and guardian over nature and its environment in an unprecedented way. At this age, concern for the environment has gone from institutional level to individual action levels, since today everyone who cares about the quality of life of both present and future generations is forced to care about the state and future of the environment. I think that this is the key issue, and the action plans from the strategy will have to focus on this, so that, alongside the institutional level, we can help this concern at the civic, community and everyday levels. Because this concern is twofold: on the one hand, it requires practical steps from organisations representing the community of humanity at international and national level, we believe that politics and the main players in economic life, companies and economic organizations, but I also stress: in the same way, social, civil society and churches, but in the whole story, the most important role of each person is in their own actions, responsibility and thinking. Thus, for our common cause and action, to which the directions are determined by the strategy before us, we need a strong and capable state, because maintaining the environment in good condition requires a strong state, because a weak state, or, if you like, in the case of a non-interference state, the environmental status as a long-term interest must necessarily be put in the background. We think it's a strong state. There is still a need for commitment from economic operators and important added values from churches and real civilians. If we have these, if they're together, then there's hope. Think global, act locally. says the saying, because the practical steps that I will talk about later are rootless if they are not preceded or accompanied by a foundation of thinking or a change. So, in other words, caring for the state of our Earth, our environment, certainly requires a renewal of thinking and thinking. That is why we would like to place great emphasis on environmentally conscious education in families and schools. We believe that both in families and in schools it is necessary to introduce the nature of climate change to the growing generation, so that they can consciously slow down the extent of natural change and have a natural reaction, a habit in everyday life, a attitude of attention. The sole advantage of thinking is the individual's own benefit, subjective use, while the community-minded thinking shows that the individual's self-interest is the good of the other person, the desire for the other person's interests, and the individual's own goals include the common good. [[11.40]] The natural environment cannot be considered only on the basis of a summary of individual, subjective benefits. I cannot do the reduction of the CO2 content of the atmosphere alone, because CO2 cannot be localised, and if it is emitted somewhere, it affects me, whether or not it is beneficial to me or harmful to me. Based on the same logic, the rest of the natural environment works; water, air and soil are more public goods than private goods. Therefore, concern for the environment, cultivation and preservation are linked to a common good approach. Here we would like to thank our MEP György Hölvényi for his work, who, as a member of the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, has been doing a great deal of work on this issue, for example to mention a case that has made significant efforts in recent years to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. Dear House, We Christian democrats consider it essential and partly political responsibility to make creation protection, environmental protection, as I mentioned earlier, a matter of everyday life. For example, it has recently been read that the government is planning to restrict the use of plastic bags. We believe that the initiative, together with the right attitude of consumers, can trigger a reduction in waste. Small changes in everyday life are needed only to significantly reduce households' biological footprints. Or even the development of public transport networks is increasingly an opportunity for the Hungarian people to choose more environmentally friendly public transport than car transport; it is both cost-effective and useful. The Hungarian government will continue and continue to do everything in its power to make public transport a convenient and useful alternative for road users throughout the country. The protection of trees and the promotion of tree planting are of paramount importance in cleaning the air of settlements, contributing to the development of a healthy urban environment. The selective collection of waste, in which I believe the biggest change in public thinking has occurred in recent years, shows that energy expenditure, campaign and common goals can be achieved. Just to give you a very specific example, if we can keep room temperature lower in the winter, if we reach a temperature that's one degree lower, then we can save 6 percent of our energy. There are many such things, we just need to look around on household, shopping, transport, waste management or water saving. In recent years, I think that the government has been able to provide a great deal of help to the public and the institutions by supporting energy investments, by means of a cooling exchange programme, by means of a solar panel competition, by supporting awareness-raising programmes. This is the direction to be pursued and we all have to stand up for everyday action. Dear Parliament, Based on the strategy presented to Parliament, we have an important national interest in adapting to the adverse climate change conditions, but at the same time the intention of improving and changing, given the fact that today's measurement-proven warming process shows that the average temperature increase of 1 degree in the period 2021-2050 can lead to an average change. In addition, the distribution of precipitation is expected to vary, the summer rate will decrease and autumn and winter precipitation will increase. In line with international efforts, Hungary should also reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but in this respect Hungary's situation in the European Union is very favourable. Sustainable development must be our goal in this area and in all other areas in the future. It is important to know our options and limitations, planning and preparation for the period ahead. The main objective of the strategy is therefore to continue decarbonisation, to provide a space-informatic basis for testing vulnerable areas, to adapt and to prepare properly, to ensure climate partnership, i.e. to achieve information and public confidence, and to develop attitudes. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I would also like to thank the President of the Republic for his efforts and to draw our attention here in the House from time to time and to keep the subject on the agenda elsewhere. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-02-37	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You steer strangely. You are fond of fighting the invisible enemy, while you are not doing much to combat the real threats to Hungary. Some things are even worse: they open the door wide in front of them. You are alerting us to a social, health and economic emergency in the context of the refugee situation, while doing nothing to prevent and prevent a social, health and economic emergency that is expected due to climate change, which is a real threat. You have been running this country for over eight years, but the Orbán government still has no agreed climate policy. The first climate change strategy was presented by the Socialist Government in 2008. You tried to submit a new strategy in 2013 and quickly withdrew it. Hungary has not had a current climate policy since 2014. Let's look at the calendar: It's 2018. Talking about the first things to do in climate policy in 2018 is about thinking about starting a vaccination with a glass or two of water in the middle of a burning house. Plus, I have another bad news. The dangers arising from climate change cannot be dealt with in your favourite way as a nation-state authority. Climate change does not know national borders, global warming does not stop at Hegyeshalom. However, this does not excuse your government from acting, because it is true that Hungary alone cannot solve the problems of the continent or the world, but if we do nothing, it can have a negative impact on everyone. Of course, your inaction is a huge risk to the Hungarian people in the first place. Moreover, in this case, the national interest you have so often expressed coincides with the international interest. It is in Hungary's interest to build an innovative economy with low carbon intensity and high productivity as soon as possible. Let us also look at the dangers that are expected in our country because of the effects of climate change. According to regional climate models, a bad world is coming to Hungary. The number of extreme hot days in our country is already two weeks a year. By the end of the century, this period will be doubled, so our grandchildren will have to suffer from the heat for almost a month. As society is ageing and older people are more sensitive to the devastating effects of heat, this means that by 2050, excess mortality in individual regions could reach up to 166 percent. Yes, you heard me. 166 percent more people will die because of the heat. Health care is not prepared for this at any level, either in terms of infrastructure or human resources. Agricultural production will fall because of drought, and due to the uncontrollable well drilling, we will water most of the country's stock of layers of water until then. Higher temperatures will lead to an explosion of air-conditioning equipment, which will mean enormous energy demand. It may already be clear from this that Hungary is gradually hit by the dangers of climate change. Of course, this also has social implications. With the extra heat spending, a whole new dimension of energy poverty appears: there will be many people who will not be able to defend themselves against heat. So far, only in winter did we read how many people froze in their own apartments because they couldn't heat. In a few decades, the reports will be filled with deaths due to heat, the names of those who could not defend themselves against heat. The residents of over half a million panel apartments are very directly affected by this problem. [[11.50]] But if you do not believe me, take the study published in the September issue of Hungarian Science, from Tibor Málnási, a colleague of the National Public Health Institute and János Bobvos, Head of Department of the Ministry of Human Resources. The title of the study is: The Health Effects of Climate Change. We're looking at a rather disappointing vision. What are you going to do to avoid or at least reduce these dangers? Well, not much. The Ministry of Environment has been abolished. This is already one of the measures that tells us that the Orbán government has no interest in the future at all. At government level, no one will care whether the generation after us, our children and grandchildren will live well or suffer in this country. But you haven't stopped here yet, because you've not only failed, but you've also destroyed. There have been a number of obstacles to the exploitation of renewable energy sources. They stopped the construction of wind power plants, taxed solar panels and heat pumps. Many trees were exterminated in Budapest and the countryside, eliminating many green areas. Instead of building water-saving irrigation technologies, everyone was allowed to drill wells, thus reducing the amount of layer water. Open their 2015 report to the UN, in which we are already at 54,6 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. 2 million tonnes more greenhouse gas emissions, compared to 52.5 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions calculated in 2014. I am pleased to hear from the President of the Republic that there is hope that many cities will join this programme, and I would like to know more about it. Or let's look at the share of renewable energy in electricity. According to 2016 data, Hungary is in the worst three with Luxembourg and Malta in the EU. It is clear from this that the Orbán government does not care at all about what the future will be like in Hungary in 30-40 years. All you care about is making as much money as possible for yourself and your relatives. This is why the use of renewable energy sources is limited. Because it's more important for you that your Russian friends build a nuclear power plant, which is not only environmentally destructive and dangerous, but it produces electricity twice as expensive as modern, environmentally friendly technologies. And you did your best while the energy efficiency support provided by the European Union was not given to Hungarian families, but to public institutions and TEK. Because it is more important for you to keep the Hungarian families dependent on energy, who in many cases heat the street with their poorly insulated, antiquated apartments. Most people don't even know that energy efficiency investments supported by the European Union could reduce their costs by at least 30-40 percent, not to mention neighbouring Austria, where there is less than 1.5 times the cost of the rent. This would, of course, be a permanent and genuine reduction of the rent for Hungarian families independent of governments, which no one would be able to take back. But you're more of a supporter of environmental waste, so that every four years you can make a political profit by cutting a few forints. Let us say openly that you, Fidesz and KDNP are consciously sacrificing the next generations of Hungary to the harmful effects of climate change, so that they can put more money in their pockets and stay in power as long as possible. Accordingly, your national climate strategy does not involve any serious effort. This text only takes into account the European Union's resources and opportunities to infiltrate global innovation. It does not impose any strict conditions for industry, agriculture or transport, which would reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We Hungarian socialists think much more responsibly than that. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is why we are proposing to introduce a structural climate change fund, as proposed by the European Socialists, which would give priority support to regions that are more disadvantaged by climate change. I hope that this proposal has been heard. We support any innovation that reduces the effects of climate change in our country and equips our country against the expected negative consequences. Hungary needs innovation to modernise its economy as easily and as quickly as possible. This innovation is not necessarily technical, as it would also be important to train a new generation of innovative approaches in agriculture, forestry, construction, water management and so on. Our greatest weapon against the expected future heat is the multitude of educated Hungarian heads of people. But right now, you're chasing away our talented and eager young people. Now, of course, many of you must think that we can talk as much as we want. Your family is so rich, they won't feel anything from the troubles they're about to face. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I've got some bad news: there's no way to protect your children and grandchildren from the climate disaster they're about to face. Of course, you can leave the country, gas-eating with a $20 million BMW or up to 17 billion private jets, but you can't leave Earth. Believe me, it's a lot easier to act thinking now than to fight for a glass of water in a few decades. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the MSZP? Dr. János Fónagy: The MSZP should applaud now, but pain is not here!]]
u2018-10-02-38	Dear Parliament, [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. Move.]] We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. I would also ask my fellow Members to take their seats and remain silent. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the Republic. Dear Parliament, Although it was 2018, the clock stopped in 2014 due to the constant procrastination of the acceptance of NÉS. At that time, the strategy boasted that according to 2014 data, Hungary has a 48 percent lower Ughg emissions than in the base year of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, with 40 percent lower Ughg emissions than in 1990. However, according to Eurostat's latest estimate of EU Member States' energy emissions in 2017, emissions in Hungary increased by 6.9 percent compared to the previous year. In terms of CO2 emissions, an average increase of 5.6 per cent is recorded annually from 2015, which exceeds the growth rate of 2-4 per cent of domestic GDP during this period. In other words, the Hungarian carbon intensity is deteriorating and shows an unsustainable path. This fact can make it clear to everyone that NÉS-2 is outdated, designed for a different situation than it was created after. On a growing track, the task is completely different from a previous decline indicator. At this point, I could cut short what I have to say, asking the Honourable Parliament to ask the Government to draw up a new strategy adapted to the changed situation. So I would like to contribute to a new strategy, which is truly ambitious and forward-looking. Firstly, I would like to draw your attention to an important point of view, and I would like to ask that this point be amended. Point 2.1 of the proposal for a decision states:. Climate change is one of the environmental, social and economic challenges that directly affect people's living conditions and quality of life, endanger the supply and quality of natural resources and ecosystem services, damage the built environment and infrastructure, hinder safe and seamless access to priority public services. Because of all these impacts, climate change is a major obstacle to sustainable development. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, my fellow Members, perhaps others also notice that we are dealing with a problem that we have caused, and instead of beating up our own bad behaviour, we are instructing ourselves to do the right thing, we are blaming climate change. [[12.00]] This could be the case: preventing further deterioration of climate change requires the need for climate change drivers, such as increasing primary and greenhouse gas emissions from excessive consumption needs, as well as the urgent management of ecosystem degradation, in order to ensure fundamental conditions for human society. Secondly, I believe it is necessary to clarify that the myth that economic growth and the reduction of environmental burdens can be separated has now been definitively and proven to have failed, since global primary material consumption is increasing much more strongly than the output of the economy. In the case of our country, the illusion of separation was based on an earlier large-scale economic restructuring, the positive effects of which have now come to light, and also from a miscalculation that, to date, does not take into account the environmental burden of resources consumed by our country but from beyond our borders, I refer to the ecological backpack, and the domestic economy leaves an environmental burden beyond our borders in many areas. The domestic end-uses of imported raw materials and semi-finished goods of the assembly holding and the emissions of imported electricity are two significant items belonging to the carbon footprint of the domestic society, in particular where the imported electricity was mainly supplied by plants with Polish, Ukrainian and Czech coal-fired plants. According to international justice, CO2 emissions per capita, considered low, are still too high without them, especially in the light of the fact that domestic carbon-absorption capacities are scarce compared to domestic emissions. Dear House, To absorb our own emissions, we would need 12.5 million hectares of forest, but as we know, we only have 2 million hectares. This can absorb the sixth of our emissions on a goodwill basis, i.e. not even as much as should be achieved globally by 2050. That would be 2 tons. From all this, it is clear that we can rely only on land and seagulls in other parts of the world, which we are part of in this way. Thirdly, NÉS intends to achieve sectoral integration by integrating climate protection aspects into existing sectoral strategies, plans and programmes. Such a solution would only be appropriate if the basic objectives of the different existing sectoral strategies were already climate-friendly, but we know from experience that climate protection and other environmental interests are falling short of economic interests. Correctly, the NÉSS should define for the sectors what amendments should be made to their objectives. In the current form climate protection aspects are incidental and subordinate to the various sectoral objectives. An exceptional example is the alignment with the existing energy strategy, which follows the idea of atomic, carbon and renewable energy composition. This is completely unacceptable for the LMP, as nuclear energy cannot be a long-term safety risk that creates environmental overloads on the grounds of climate protection. Furthermore, clean coal technologies do not exist without environmental costs, and inflexible energy structures based on nuclear coal are a major obstacle to the deployment of renewables. The LMP envisages the country's climate-friendly energy future primarily through energy saving, energy efficiency and the exclusive use of renewable energies. The lines of action listed in the strategy are very soft to address the problem, there are not sufficient incentives to reduce the use of total primary fossil energy, its full deployment and the rapid introduction of renewables. The approach to reducing electricity needs is an interesting endeavour, while we increasingly base our operation on electricity. The strategy does not provide any basis for carbon tax consideration, it mentions it timidly and modestly, although the realistic pricing of natural resources is an essential condition for the absolute reduction in the use of materials and energy. Today, all around the world, cheap energy and raw materials, water, biological foundations, everything that nature provides us are considered as competitive conditions: everything we take from nature. Ladies and gentlemen, Cheap energy, cheap natural resources, is a bad message for society in many ways. First of all, it suggests that there are a lot of them and that they can be wasted. Cheap energy does not encourage users to use energy-saving solutions, it does not encourage innovation, it does not encourage efficient energy use. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] However, cheap energy used with low efficiency has a high environmental cost, which sooner or later will be paid by society in countless forms, such as damage to its health, its environmental potential or even damage caused by climate change. Notice that we're wasting what we don't have, we're losing. The target system for emission reduction in the strategy is rather one-sided and incomplete. According to the traditional approach, greenhouse gas emissions are the main cause of climate change. While there is no doubt that they need to be reduced, this conceals the fact that the main earth shaper of climate regulation is the natural preservation of different ecosystems, which has already been ruined by man's limitless territorial expansion. This is particularly true in our country, since natural habitats barely cover 10 percent of the country's territory, compared to almost half of the country's territory being covered by fields that do not have any ecosystem services to support climate stability, and even make a significant contribution to ughg emissions. Classical nature conservation is an inadequate response to this problem. Conservation and rehabilitation of species, habitats, ecosystems are a task beyond nature conservation areas. From a climate protection point of view, it is therefore unavoidable to limit the use of land and to impose strict rules on how to use it. This leaves NÉS's target system in debt, even though the possibility of improving ecosystem services would be given through the restructuring of the agricultural support system. At present, we are promoting socially low-benefit activities and environmentally highly destructive activities with public money. Therefore, subsidies should be redirected to promote high environmental quality and high food quality cultivation technologies. In order to prevent further reduction of green surfaces, an immediate green surface-use stop should be introduced, the development needs should be ensured through brownfield investments. In addition, a rehabilitation programme should be launched to improve the proportion of natural vegetation coverage, and particular care should be taken to increase the extent of water areas offering the highest ecosystem service. Dear Parliament, It is clear that there is no alternative to reducing material consumption in the environment, including in climate policy, but such an objective is politically unacceptable for governments that put economic growth above all. Thus, decarbonisation and the climate partnership with society will remain without substantial links, since there is no objective of reducing consumption in the partnership to support decarbonisation. [[12.10]] How can we achieve objective 1.3, reducing the needs of natural resources, if we do not encourage society to reduce consumption and, on the other hand, we pride ourselves on increasing consumption every day? Retail sales, fuel consumption, industrial production, volume of trade, agricultural production are increasing; new infrastructures and buildings are being built, which, we must note, add to the burden that has already existed. Therefore, the strategy's claims that the aim of the adaptation strategy is to preserve the supply and quality of natural resources and to make long-term use of them in order to facilitate the transition to sustainability are not very credible. The sentence states that the stocks and quality of our natural resources should be preserved; the present, which we have already destroyed beyond its endurance and endurance, is the soil, biodiversity, biomass, water resources, energy sources that we use beyond their renewable capacity. We want to do this when we put even more demands on these things, and the adaptation to the changing environment, which we have changed, by the way, requires more resources from the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first step, the main focus should be on shaping society's approach. Personal example, decision-making to reinforce the right values, no climate policy objectives can be achieved without the need for people to show restraint. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-02-40	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Mr Bence Tordai, lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow citizens, In the Western world, only the leaders of two countries publicly undertake not to be interested in climate change. One is called Donald Trump, and everyone but his own followers thinks he is a stupid, infantile, sickly liar; the other is called Viktor Orbán, and he is the president of Fidesz. Although Mr Orbán has an authentic professional opinion on everything from football to the Hungarian people's spirit, you are drinking not only his words on the government side, but also the empty Coke box he uses on the home altar, you would be in great trouble if we asked you to quote a memorable, forward-looking thought about climate change. Orbán's dictionary does not include the climate crisis, and what is perhaps even worse, is not on the political agenda of the Orbán government. You've been ruling for eight years, and you've been fighting imaginary enemies like the Monster or the Muslim armies hired by György Soros, supposedly invading Hungary. While Hungary is the most sensitive of all the EU Member States, the real problem we are dealing with is being ignored. In other words, you fear the European way of life and culture only of refugees of other religions, but you refuse to face the fact that climate change is one of the main causes of the refugee invasion, and that nothing is more dangerous than climate warming and dehydration to the quality of life and lifestyle that we have been used to in Europe for the past decades. It is a scientific fact that there is a direct link between the concentration of CO2 and other greenhouse gases in the air and the global average temperature. The level of the gases in question is leading to historical peaks, in close association with fossil fuels fired from the beginnings of the industrial revolution to today. There is also a scientific consensus around the assumption that if warming cannot be stopped before the two degrees Celsius limits, the warming process will be irreversible. Arctic ice caps and glaciers disappear, many of the forests dry up, and these effects themselves will accelerate climate change. Similar climatic fluctuations in the history of our planet have occurred before and have always been associated with huge extinction waves. An uncontrollable heat period could mean the end of human civilization. But even small changes can have dramatic effects. The yields of cereals providing food for the majority of mankind are already showing a decrease. At two-degree heat, yields in areas with dry and warm climates, i.e. one third of the production area, are already falling significantly. And if the global average temperature increases by more than 2, say, 4 degrees, then the decline in crops can reach 25 percent, with very serious consequences of famine and wars. The same will happen in fisheries. The catch in the tropics may decrease by 40-60 percent, while in the southern hemisphere, sea fish is the most important source of animal protein. Meanwhile, huge regions run out of water, drinking water supply. Further cataclysms will be caused by rising sea levels, deserting, accelerating the spread of certain pathogens or intensifying the destruction of animal and plant species. They are all linked to climate change, and they all threaten the survival of mankind. The solution can only be to adopt a life-style that is much more climate conscious, to reduce energy consumption, to adopt sustainability principles and to take climate adaptation seriously. As I have already said, Hungary is one of the European countries most exposed to the negative effects of climate change, i.e. drought, fall in summer precipitation and uneven water flow. At the same time, we are currently the only state in the EU, which still does not have a valid agreed climate strategy. Before the 2015 Paris Climate Summit, you put together something to avoid being ashamed of the world, but also withdrawn after the summit. Because they realized that such a strategy should be spent, and that meeting climate targets would jeopardise the interests of the fidesz oligarchs and the giant companies that have been carefully served by the Orbán government. There are absolutely no meaningful climate targets for the future. All they have undertaken on behalf of Hungary is that the share of renewable energy will be 14.6 percent by 2020, which is one of the lowest levels in the EU on the one hand, and we have already achieved it a long time ago, and thirdly we have managed to achieve it by converting our coal power plants to wood burning, which is the most harmful way of using green energy on the other hand. Let us now consider what else you have done since 2010 in the context of climate change. The Ministry of Environment has been abolished, and since then there has been no responsibility for climate protection in the government. The office of the independent green ombudsman has been terminated, so no one has been able to take account of the laws and measures that violate the interests of the climate killer, the current and future generations. The construction of wind power plants has been stopped, and no new wind power plant has been approved here since they entered the government, which is unprecedented in Europe. Solar cells and heat pumps have been taxed, and the flagship investment law, which is a flawed concept, has been amended several times, thus enabling the destruction of any urban green area. And they lived with it, in Budapest, they wiped out the trees from here, from Kossuth Square, they started installing Városliget, Orczy Garden, and József Nádor Square, but they also started to slaughter trees in many rural settlements. And let's see what they missed among other things. They did not encourage the introduction of water-saving irrigation technologies, instead they liberalised well drilling, allowing the disposal of layers of water resources, which, as I indicated, the head of state sent back quite rightly, finding this unconstitutional. They didn't deal with water retention, the design of natural reservoirs, the implementation of the new Vásárhely plan, they only made concrete locks out of it, but it was originally your idea. They did not implement their own water management strategy, which requires that we switch from disaster flood protection to factually less risky prevention and conscious water management, offering Viktor Orbán less rubber boots and leather coats. Volkswagen, knowingly cheating with diesel car emissions, obtained by false data in the Hungarian government's public procurements, has not been punished, despite the repeated request of the Dialogue, and now they are trying to sabotage the EU to tighten the emission standards of the automotive industry, thus serving the interests of the German industry, but in opposition to the interests of the people. The most obvious way to prevent climate change would be to increase energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energy sources. You have also started in the opposite direction, we are one of the last to use solar panels, and we have always been there for energy efficiency. The EU would have given hundreds of billions to modernise the energy efficiency of dwellings, but you, under the leadership of János Lázár and Viktor Orbán, fought against Brussels until they achieved that money could be used by state institutions, TEK and its associates instead of Hungarian families. [[12.20]] An average Hungarian household currently consumes 1.5 times as much energy as an Austrian household. This could easily be helped by thermal insulation, replacement of windows and heating upgrades, but you were more concerned with the rucksack. Moreover, the poorest, non-consumers of fixed energy, were left out of it while helping those who heat the driveway and the pool. Viktor Orbán, who was talking with Zsolt Semjén during the speech of the head of state, said with his own mouth that alternative energy is unfunded, while not at all disturbing the need to double the price of electricity in order to return on the infinitely harmful and dangerous Paks expansion. In Europe, two out of every three euros flowing into the energy sector are spent building wind power plants or solar parks, but in accordance with Putin's wishes, they are building a nuclear power plant with Russian technology and Russian construction, which is impossible to operate without the flexible use of peak and valley periods, but without oil and gas plants producing a huge amount of carbon dioxide. President János Áder, who described the importance of climate protection with such touching words, said just a year ago that Hungary does not actually have anything to do here, because we have lost 40 percent of greenhouse gas production since the change in the system. The only thing he did not add and did not add is that, this time, my fellow members of the government, lying to the point that the cost of this was the collapse, the disappearance of the Hungarian industry and, as a result, mass unemployment. In recent years, however, a number of companies, rubber and plastic factories and automotive paint plants have been installed in Hungary, which are spilling carbon dioxide and, as a result, in Hungary alone in the European Union, according to Eurostat data, CO2 emissions have been increasing for years. Orbán policy leads here, which ignores neither reality nor climate risks, and in which, unfortunately, the head of state is the guilty government's accomplice, if not mute, but speaking to the air. The nice words are all over the attic.
u2018-10-02-42	Congressman, I'd like to ask you to stop for a moment. Since the President of the Republic does not respond in this speaking session, he has no opportunity to do so, please refrain from certification. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-43	A political public figure must tolerate expression, I think. I do not see that the President of the Republic, although we do agree and appreciate his efforts at the level of words, but if these efforts are really just words, then they will not result. If you can't change it, if you can't influence the government's actual policy, I'm afraid I have to tell you that you're assisting with what's going on in this country today. In fact, touching voices really do not mean anything if the actual government policy does not protect people from the climate crisis, but, on the contrary, it serves us to climate change and pushes gas to the brink of a dead end. Members of the Government, wake up! [[Anett's clapping. Noise, interruptions.]]
u2018-10-02-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches as keynote speakers. The general debate will be adjourned, continued and closed after the next item. Dear Parliament, Following a series of reports on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2017 and on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, until its closure. The accounts submitted by the State Audit Office B/8. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/1645. was given to them. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, please.
u2018-10-02-45	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with information each year on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, and shall present the institution's operation and management in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. The final objective of the State Audit Office is to make the Court's work socially accessible and to create added value at social level. In this spirit, 2017 was a year of expansion of public financial education and knowledge transfer and, of course, of widespread utilisation in the Court of Auditors' life. Among our core values, efforts to prevent errors and shortcomings are increasingly highlighted, and to cooperate in support of the audited. This means that the final objective of the Court's audits is essentially not to find faults or condemn them, but to steer them in the right direction, to launch and maintain positive changes in the context of public finances and the management of public assets. The ultimate objective is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective, in addition to audits, with the analysis, studies and opinion of the State Audit Office of the State, and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of public service institutions and systems. In order to achieve all these goals, we actively supported the work of the Parliament in 2017, we placed great emphasis on continuous social information, the transparency of the institution, and in all justified cases we used the official indications set out in the law. In addition, last year we were active players in the International Community of Courts of Auditors. Our report, which is available on our website, contains a number of novelties compared to the previous year. The summary of the performances is quickly transparent. It is important that, as the Court expands its tasks, more and more tasks are presented in our report. I would also like to mention in my expo the points raised by the Court on the basis of the audit experience and which could directly or indirectly affect the lives of citizens. I would also like to draw the attention of this House to the importance of the internal control system and internal control, as well as the possible consequences of the Court's audits laid down by law, the application of so-called conservation measures. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law requires all public bodies to manage independently, independently and responsibly according to the requirements of legality, expediency and effectiveness. The State Audit Office is therefore committed to contributing as much as possible to the transparency of public funds through its peer-based audits and to helping to ensure the efficient and practical use of public money and public wealth. The law of Hungary requires all organisations using public money to do so. The State Audit Office, as an exemplary organisation, has continuously increased the effectiveness of its audit activities since 2011, with nearly the same number of employees increasing the number of annual audits by three times. The increase in volume also meant a strengthening of quality, with the development of risk analysis and a targeted control programme to meet the specific risks of the audited. Thus, the SAO will check where and where and which, on the basis of the preliminary risk analysis, can be expected to be the highest possible use. New methods and new control approaches have also contributed to quantitative and qualitative progress, which can significantly increase control coverage. The Court of Auditors can assess both a large number of audited financial and wealth management as a result of this development. As a next step towards an effective increase in controls, the State Audit Office has set the objective of creating a digital audit environment. Of course, the organisation's labour competences also need to be adapted to this, since the high quality of the audit activity can only be guaranteed. [[12.30]] Meeting the challenges of digitalisation and applying the renewed IT environment is a continuous priority, which is also a fundamental requirement at the level of workers and will continue to be a requirement in the future. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Audit Office also played its role as a public financial guarantor as defined in the Fundamental Law in 2017. The SAO's audits became more effective by 2017 and its reports became more effective, as a result of which the auditors also improved the irregularities detected more effectively. That's what the numbers show. In 2017, the State Audit Office presented a total of 1546 proposals for 874 audited organisations and sent 102 letters of notice. Based on these audits, in the course of last year, a total of 251 public Court reports were prepared, including the implementation of nearly 700 tasks identified in the action plan in the framework of the 61 follow-up audits completed last year. This means that the publication of a report by the Court of Auditors was made available to exactly every working day in 2017. The State Audit Office also complied with its statutory audit obligations in 2017, supported the establishment of the central budget for 2018, and carried out an audit of the 2016 accounts, and supported the work of both the Parliament and the Fiscal Council through its macroeconomic analyses, as required by the law. Last year, the State Audit Office also carried out audits and follow-up of state asset management. In 2017, it verified the functioning of the Public Finance Information System and the official statistical service, the development and functioning of domestic data protection frameworks and data registers, and the adequacy of the use of EU R &amp; D and innovation grants. We strive to address areas, public services systems and social problems affecting a wide range of populations with our controls. In the framework of this, last year we completed the monitoring of the system of protection against ragweed and chimney sweeping services, and also carried out a check on the effectiveness of the child protection system. The State Audit Office also carried out audits in 2017 in areas and institutions of public financial and social importance. This includes the control of the Hungarian National Bank, the National Tax and Customs Office, the Hungarian State Treasury, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office, two chambers of commerce and more than 50 state-owned companies last year. In 2017, the State Audit Office also put great emphasis on the control of municipalities and their companies. Last year there were 125 reports of affected municipalities. Of these, 51 reports were made of majority-owned companies, 30 of which were controlled by county-owned cities. In 2017, the State Audit Office completed its comprehensive series of audits of county museums, covering all 19 institutions, with 5 published reports. Last year, we continued the follow-up of previously controlled higher education institutions. Thus, in a total of 24 universities, the auditors assessed the implementation of the action plans. In line with the audit schedule and the legal requirements, the Court of Auditors continued to monitor the management of parties and party foundations receiving budgetary support in 2017. In addition, two other public foundations, the MÁV Symphony Orchestra and the Budapest Festival Orchestra, were completed last year. In 2017 the State Audit Office notified an authority, a competent supervisory body, on a total of 257 occasions, in order to ensure the use of public funds, on suspicion of a criminal offence or serious irregularity detected during its audits. Parliament's work and parliamentary decision-making were supported by a number of parliamentary briefings, and 35 legislative proposals were proposed by the Court of Auditors. Based on its audit findings and experience, the Court has initiated 10 legislative amendments, 18 draft legislative acts and 7 other documents. In recent years, Parliament has entrusted the Court of Auditors with a number of tasks in its decisions. In line with these, the State Audit Office explained its activities in a number of areas last year. This includes the prevention-based fight against corruption, the dissemination of the culture of integrity in the Hungarian public sector and at international level. We also committed ourselves to the development of state management on the basis of the Parliament's request, one of the tools of which was to lay the foundations for public financial ethical leadership training and to launch it in practice last year. First, the Court of Auditors included a management training programme with museum managers and in 2018 additional public financial areas and institutional groups in the SAO's ethical financial management programme. Last week, we launched several weeks of knowledge-sharing training for the number one leaders of state-owned companies. In the spirit of social responsibility, the SAO was also an active participant last year in initiatives to raise the financial and public financial awareness of the Hungarian population, contributing to the development of a national financial awareness-raising strategy adopted last year. As a new task, in June 2017, the National Assembly asked the State Audit Office to continue its activities with a view to the methodological renewal of the public finance control system and to contribute to the methodological development of public finance audit organisations. This task is being carried out. The 13 Court analyses carried out in the framework of the advisory activities of the State Audit Office concerned areas such as the Diploma Tracking System, the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system, municipal waste management companies or the county-owned urban museums. With several budgetary and macroeconomic analyses, the SAO supported the work of the Fiscal Council and several analyses were carried out in the framework of the integrity project on corruption risk mapping, focusing on prevention of corruption. In order to share knowledge, the Court of Auditors also hosted several domestic and international events in 2017, its leaders and experts shared the Court's experience at dozens of prestigious events, conferences and working groups. The State Audit Office also placed great emphasis on the transparency of continuous social information and of our institution in 2017. More than 7,000 news reports have been published in the Hungarian media about his work, and more than 2 thousand articles published on his own news portal, thus ensuring the transparency of his activities. The SAO's proactive work and transparent information activities are also confirmed by public surveys. A representative research conducted by one of the major public opinion research companies a few weeks ago revealed that the proportion of those familiar with the State Audit Office and its activities has increased significantly in Hungarian society over the last three years, and that more and more people are confident about the Court's findings. The results of 2017 have also contributed to this. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office also presented in its 2017 accounts the suggestions contained in our prospectus, based on its audit experience and analysis conclusions. In total, 14 proposals have been made to further develop and reduce the risks of certain public financial areas. The proposals are aimed at ensuring responsible, proper management of national assets, strengthening state management, increasing transparency in public and public wealth management, cutting red tape and preventing and effectively managing local government indebtedness. [[12.40]] The proposals also address the further strengthening of the public finance control system. In order to ensure proper, economical, efficient and efficient management of public finances' funds and national assets, reporting and reporting obligations, the Public Finance Act identified three areas in the Public Finance Audit System: the internal control system of public finances, the so-called government control level and external control. These three areas are the three lines of defence for public finances. The first line of protection is the internal control system of public finances and internal control which includes it. The second is government, municipal supervision and control. The third line of protection is an independent external audit, such as an audit by the State Audit Office. The audit mandate of the Court of Auditors is extensive. It is also entitled to control the management and functioning of institutions which carry out control and supervision themselves. As a result of the audit of such institutions, the SAO is able to achieve the greatest possible impact in order to promote sound, responsible and disciplined management of public funds, since the results of the audits of the State Audit Office, by making the activities of the auditors more regular, efficient and transparent, can be used indirectly by the audit bodies in the operation of the audited entities. On this basis, in its report to Parliament, the SAO raised a stronger coordination of the levels of public finances control. The establishment of a closer link between internal control as the first line of defence and the SAO as the third line of defence raises the need to establish a legislative framework for the establishment of a system of relations and coordination between government control and supervisory bodies in the second line of defence such as Kehi, Treasury, Budapest and county government offices and the SAO in order to improve the effectiveness of control tasks. Another point we have is to strengthen internal control systems. The State Audit Office shall monitor the establishment and operation of the internal control system of the budgetary bodies in the performance of its basic function, as it places great emphasis on the evaluation of the internal control system that provides a basis for proper functioning and management and protection against corruption threats. I would like to point out that Hungary has committed itself in the context of its accession to the European Union in 2004 in the direction of moving to the internal control system in the State Management System, taking over its governance system, and, to this day, it still remains a major area of development. The State Audit Office shall assess the internal control system for the central budget area each year in the course of the audit of the accounts. These audits have revealed shortcomings and irregularities in several groups of institutions in recent years. Based on his experience, the SAO's report on the year 2017 suggested that it would be useful to establish a closer relationship between the SAO and the legal institution of internal control, thereby increasing the efficiency of internal controls. We were pleased that the proposal for a decision already supported by the Parliament's Economic Committee supports the practical implementation of this proposal. On the subject which is extremely important for the effectiveness of public financial controls, I would also like to point out that public sector organisations are required by legislation to build up and operate internal control systems and to address corruption risks, as well as by government regulation. This means that the head of the budgetary body, having regard to the operational process and specificities of the budgetary body, must develop, operate and develop the internal control system of the organisations. The responsibility of the heads of the budgetary bodies is therefore imposed by law and must also be stated annually in writing on the proper establishment and operation of the internal control system. For example, I can mention that in recent years, the State Audit Office has audited a number of healthcare entities. These included central budgetary institutions and specialised and out-of-patient establishments operating as state and municipal companies. The common experience of our dozens of inspections is that, in the vast majority of audited organisations, managers have not properly developed an internal control system to ensure protection against corruption threats, which has endangered the transparency and accountability of the relevant healthcare business organisations. Of course, this also covers the issue of responsibility for museums and other institutions, as our reports discuss in detail, from the point of view of a wider deficit, the local government sphere, notary and mayor. More than 15,000 organisations, partly institutions, municipalities and partly companies are covered by these obligations. So this is a broad line of defence, and if it works, Hungary's competitiveness will be improved. I would like to stress that the SAO has drawn attention to corruption threats and corruption offences in its reports, because the Court of Auditors is not a investigating authority. This is often misunderstood or misunderstood by honourable Members and communicated by the SAO to reveal corruption, for example, in the healthcare system or in other institutions. That's not true. At the same time, it should be underlined that in a farming organisation where otherwise required integrity controls to protect against corruption threats have not been properly developed, there is a greater risk of misuse of public funds and thus a genuine increase in the risk of corruption. In addition, our general audit experience is that the current management and regulatory requirements are typically not met by small public institutions and public companies, and this also applies to municipalities. In an increasingly complex regulatory environment, we should therefore be familiar with a new concept of economies of scale for so-called internal regulation. This means that if a budgetary body or a public or municipal-owned company does not have significant resources to keep its internal rules up to date on an ongoing basis, lawlessness will appear during its day-to-day operation. As a result, their legitimate, transparent and accountable use of public wealth and public funds is not guaranteed. Compliance with the rules is therefore a basic requirement. I believe that Hungary's competitiveness is indeed fundamentally based on three points, which I would like to mention separately. On the one hand, programmes should continue to improve the efficiency of tax collection, on which it will be possible to reduce the public burden on work and thus to support the further competitiveness of the economy. That's what I call sustainable whitening. On the other hand, the use of digital solutions should be sought, and the wide potential of digitalisation should be exploited. Thirdly, from a competitive point of view, it is also particularly important for the State to set performance targets for all public projects, since they are the only way to determine the effectiveness of investments. Dear Parliament, As I have already indicated, I would like to make a brief statement on the application of the so-called conservation measures provided for in the Court's law.The new Court of Auditors law in force since 2011 has finally closed the era of checks without consequences as a result of your legislative work, as it provides for a mandatory obligation of action and assistance for the auditors. By adopting the first fundamental law of the new Fundamental Law in June 2011, the Parliament made a significant contribution to the real consequences of the Court's audits in Hungary. In order to correct the irregularities and deficiencies identified, the auditors are now preparing action plans in accordance with their statutory obligations, which the SAO may verify in the framework of follow-up audits. As I said last year, I can bring the good news that, on the other hand, those who have been checked are exercising a law-abiding attitude, and practically everyone who has been determined has also prepared a plan of action, recognising that this mistake must be corrected and that it contributes to this in an active way. [[12.50]] The State Audit Office began gradually to apply the audit possibilities provided by the new legislative environment, confirmed by the Parliament, and the possible consequences of the audits. One further step in this process is the statutory application of so-called conservation measures. According to the Court of Auditors' law, if the SAO experiences an misuse or wasteful use of public funds during its audits, or if a controlled organisation fails to fulfil its obligation to contribute and provide data in accordance with the requirements, the SAO may, subject to the authorisation laid down by law, initiate a conservation measure. According to the SAO's signal, in such cases, the Hungarian Treasury suspends the budget support of the audited entity until the audited entity corrects the deficiencies identified. In recent years, the SAO has made use of this option in the case of several organisations, municipalities, higher education institutions, nationality authorities and nationality institutions in order to correct the irregularities detected and to provide information. Based on our experience so far, I can inform the Honourable Parliament that it is a particularly effective instrument for the cooperation of the controlled, such as the statutory conduct of checks and the correction of irregularities detected, which does not criminalise the public financial situation, but promotes better-quality, compliance management in Hungary according to the law. Therefore, the SAO will continue to apply the initiative to suspend budgetary support if this is particularly justified by the protection of public funds and public assets. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our mission, as I pointed out in my introduction, is to start positive changes and support them by making use of our controls and analyses, which affect the daily lives of Hungarian people and serve the development of our country. To conclude, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for using our audit findings, experiences, analyses and information in their work, discussing our recommendations to the bill, and thus supporting the ability of the Parliament's financial and economic audit body, the State Audit Office, to ensure the availability and effectiveness of its work; and, of course, also the cooperation of the audited organisations, as they thank the Court of Auditors in a number of responses, in particular, for its work, that we have helped to follow the rules and make effective public spending. With this, I wanted to indicate that we actually have cooperating partners with regard to money users in the public financial field and with regard to organisations that use public wealth. It's good news, and I think we can all be happy about that. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-02-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In accordance with the request of the Parliament, the Economic Committee put on the agenda the report on the professional activities and the operation of the State Audit Office in 2017 and discussed it at its meeting on 25 September, with the participation of the Deputy General President of the State Audit Office. The President has also given us today a very detailed, meaningful and very informative information. A similar and equally valuable report was made at the committee's meeting. A number of committee members asked questions, and very precise, acceptable answers were received to these questions. I would like to point out, in advance, that there has been a huge change in the assessment of the State Audit Office over the past period, and I ask you with respect, Mr President, do not listen to me now. But this is extremely due to the fact that there is a very good professional work going on in the State Audit Office, and every year they are also trying to improve this level of professionalism. Dear Parliament, Following the adoption of the Fundamental Law in 2011, the Court of Auditors law has put the system of control of public finances on a new basis in Hungary. With the creation of a new regulatory environment, the era of qualitatively better, more efficient and more effective controls has started. The positive signs of this process have already been evident in recent years, and, as is apparent from the report before us, the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to do so in 2017. The report shows that the State Audit Office, as it did in previous years, was effective in supporting the Parliament's work in 2017. Followed up, supported this year's budget with its opinions and analyses, the audit and adoption of the accounts, and also contributed to strengthening transparency in the budgetary planning process. It did so with a wide coverage monitoring methodology that enabled it to draw conclusions on the whole of public finances. Thanks to the methodology used, the audit covered 100% of the revenues and expenditure of the central subsystem. The main task of the State Audit Office is to monitor the effective and legal management of public funds. During the discussion of the report, the Committee noted that the State Audit Office also performed this task effectively last year. As we can see from the report before us, the SAO has not only supported the work of Parliament and its committees through the control of legal management, but also through analyses and studies, and has complied with parliamentary decisions in all areas in recent years. By quantifying the figures, the SAO published a total of 2051 reports in 2017, it made more than 1546 proposals to promote regularity, the transparent, efficient and efficient management of public funds. Last year, 874 organisations were audited by the SAO, on the basis of 560 findings, the auditees prepared the action plans. However, it says much more than mere figures that the Court of Auditors continuously identifies instruments that are capable of promoting the orderly functioning of public bodies and responsible use of public funds. For example, if the SAO's findings could have a greater impact on the institutions of internal audit in order to improve its effectiveness in order to address the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors. [[13.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account the report on the operation in 2017, it is clear that the SAO will continue to carry out its task properly, effectively monitor the use of public funds, support and support the work of the Parliament, and prepare publications and organise conferences that support the strengthening of the functioning of the good state. I therefore ask you with respect to support the adoption of this report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to take this opportunity at the beginning of my speech as Chief Speaker, and I would like to thank the President of the State Audit Office, Mr László Domokos and, of course, his colleagues for the detailed and, I think, indeed, thorough accounts of the activities carried out by the State Audit Office in 2017 and for the truly extensive information that we have just heard thanks to the President, thanks to his speech. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On the basis of the report to be discussed, I believe that we can be pleased to note that the State Audit Office continues to interpret its task beyond the basic legal requirements, and we now experience year after year that it wishes to strengthen the role of consultant and promote integrity culture, support the renewal of state management, and place great emphasis on the development of financial awareness of Hungarian families as well as on the further development of the financial awareness of Hungarian families. In relation to the latter, all the elements that show the organisation's high social responsibility are particularly welcome in the 2017 report of the State Audit Office. Among these, I think it is important to mention the various efforts made to improve the financial awareness of the Hungarian population. On the basis of the financial statements, it can be concluded that in 2017 the State Audit Office of Hungary sought to contribute to these important objectives in a number of ways. This included contributing to the development of a national strategy for the development of financial culture, the recruitment of voluntary auditors in the framework of the programme entitled "Ambassadors of Financial Culture" for the dissemination of financial culture, the assessment of financial culture and the organisation and conduct of other educational films, lectures and various information programmes. Personally, I fully agree that the development of the financial awareness of Hungarian families is a very, very important social issue, and I believe that we can call it a social public issue, because ten years ago, one of the main focal points of the financial crisis was precisely the many, many, and in many cases only a few million HUF retail credit contracts, which, in total, have created a very serious systemic problem, which also affects the national economy. Therefore, all actions aimed at developing people's financial culture, preparation, information, awareness-raising, I say it is necessary to support an educational strategy, thereby reducing the unhindered and widespread expansion and expansion of defective financial products. Let me also highlight another important element in the State Audit Office's report, which is the organisation's audit plan. On the basis of the report, it can also be concluded that a number of new audit activities can be identified in the activities of the State Audit Office, such as the protection of children, the institutional system of child feeding, the chimney sweeping public service, the protection against ragweed, the energy efficiency of air quality, public buildings, the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, EU research, development and innovation grants, foundations, public foundations, the National Tax and Customs Office, its IT system, student authorities, the various institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments or even public libraries. Regional waterworks have also been audited by the State Audit Office on a new audit basis, but we can also refer to the monitoring of the operation of the medical service providers mentioned earlier by the President, as well as the various musical ensembles. As we learned from the State Audit Office's report, in 2017, the SAO also controlled dozens of municipal and state-owned or majority state-owned companies. I have worked for several years in the municipal system myself, and I have therefore also read with great interest the studies on the operation of the municipal subsystem. I consider it an extremely important finding, although I do not think that I will reveal a great secret here, in this circle, by the fact that the assets of the municipalities are actually part of the national wealth, which is why it is important that the SAO focuses on this, and its role of controlling it in this area is also indisputable, since the management of the municipalities, their potential financial deficits and their debts have a major impact on the deficit and debt of the government sector. In the framework of the audit of the municipal area, the organisation focused its attention mainly on areas where, on the basis of the identified risks, it was most necessary, i.e. one of the 3200 municipalities was not selected at random for a audit by the Court, but there is also a serious risk analysis system in place behind this activity. In addition to the controls of the internal control system, financial and asset management of the municipalities, the municipal debt settlement started in 2015 and the after-control of museums started in 2016. I would like to point out here that there is a new approach to the audits carried out by the State Audit Office on the basis of a new risk-based monitoring system, which greatly enhances the effectiveness of these processes, and it can also be concluded that the audit of municipal companies has been extended to new organisations by the Court of Auditors. Another important area of the operation of the State Audit Office is the assistance of legislative work in the work of Members of Parliament, as, in addition to the summary information provided to Parliament, the SAO regularly provides support for the negotiation of specific regulatory amendments and, in conjunction with them, it may itself initiate and initiate legislative amendments, as we have heard from the President in the previous paragraphs. I believe that this work in support of legislative work will make a significant contribution to creating the conditions for responsible management of public finances and public wealth. We are also pleased to read in the report that the organization also places great emphasis on sharing the accumulated knowledge. In 2017, the SAO held its now traditional international anti-corruption seminar for the fourth time, attended by 40 delegates from around 25 countries. Following the seminar, the State Audit Office also organised an international integrity workshop for a smaller group of participants. I believe that these events also show that the State Audit Office is the 21st. This professional work is already recognised at international level, as according to the Open Budget Survey's latest 2017 report, the SAO has further improved its results in the last two years in contributing to budget transparency. On this basis, it can also be stated that the State Audit Office is performing its tasks at a high level, even above the average level of developed countries, in terms of central budget control. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As one of my final thoughts, I would like to stress that, by reading through the report and following the detailed answers to the questions raised at the Economic Committee, I think it is clear that the State Audit Office has shown outstanding activity in terms of public finance control in 2017. In particular, it is to be recognised that the organisation's professional position is reflected not only in the proposals for measures drawn up in the inspections and during the inspections, but also in the SAO's preventive way to prevent these problems, anomalies and specific activities in order to involve both public organisations and local governments in the information area. As regards the work carried out by the Court of Auditors, it can also be said that the professional support of the SAO was extremely helpful for the municipalities, since during each audit, the State Audit Office informs those concerned in writing, the municipalities about the experience of the audit, and, in many cases, it also sets out a specific action and action plan in this respect. In conclusion, I see that the SAO will continue to keep an eye on public funds and will be increasingly effective in supporting the effective functioning of the State through dedicated work. As the main financial and economic control body of the National Assembly, the State Court of Auditors has a top priority to promote transparency in the use of public funds through its professionally high quality and value-creating controls and to contribute to the enforcement of the principle of good governance and good state as effectively as possible. [[13.10]] In my opinion, the State Audit Office also carried out its audit tasks effectively in 2017, effectively supported the functioning of the Parliament and the committees, as well as fulfilled its information and approach-forming tasks to a large extent. Therefore, on the basis of the report before us and in the light of the arguments set out above, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support with their votes the proposal for a resolution tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue the work by speaking with the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, please.
u2018-10-02-51	Mr President, Dear House, I, too, welcome Mr. President to the presidency. I would like to note that although it seems and TV viewers are no longer allowed to watch TV in Parliament, since television broadcasting has ceased, for those who follow us on the Internet, perhaps one of the most boring debates in the universe could be about the Court of Auditors if we were to continue it normally. After all, basically we need a debate on a professional approach, and basically we should talk about functions of financial control, based on performance measurement and indicators, which, although interesting to professionals, nevertheless speaks of the efficiency indicators of a narrow area of expertise. In recent years, we have not managed to remain within this framework, and typically the debate on the Court's reports has become something deeply politicised and often classified. Although I have every reason to continue with the practice of the last few years, I am still doing an attempt in the lead speakerial round to prevent the emergence of professional debate by limiting it to professional and economic arguments. Obviously, if this fails, boxing gloves may also appear in regular speeches. But let's start by saying what the Fundamental Law says about the State Audit Office, first-time law students also have to cram it: the State Audit Office is the financial and economic audit body of the Parliament. Our main problem here is that financial control, as such, has been the subject of a debate among us for years. László Nyikos, former Vice-President of the SAO, said that he tried to distinguish between the so-called compliance audit and the compliance audit, which dominates the SAO's activities at the moment, from the concept of classic financial control. What we see here is that the compliance check is not unnecessary, so it is a very useful test form, but it is far from replacing the full financial audit which would be the SAO's basic task and which does not comply with what is not being carried out. Last year I asked the question again, again this year I ask what is the situation with hundreds of literally hundreds of municipalities whose financial control is not being carried out by anyone in Hungary at the moment. And, therefore, although Mr President is shaking his head, this makes me hopeful, and I believe that he will have a substantive professional answer to this question, I hope that not only within the framework of the closing word, but also a kind of substantive debate can arise. But the fact that we are merely trying to measure the performance of the Court of Auditors in the report before us by numbers is okay, but if we are told that 257 official notifications have been made by the Court of Auditors, I would be very interested to know how many of the 257 authorities have notified the results of the procedure. The Court of Auditors' activity -- so the ten billion-dollar budget resource that the organisation receives, how it benefits, how much surplus can it bring to the budget, does it bring any surplus at all? I am very confident that it is, because the country needs a good Court of Auditors, but pushing diagrams and a number in itself is occasionally not suitable for drawing a system-wide picture. So I would be very interested to know how effective the Court of Auditors is and, of course, why it is not in this report of a kind of information about international reputation and international mandates. For the other SAIs, international relations, networking, thinking together, working together with other similar types of bodies are regular. At the same time, the State Court of Auditors has no or no indication of this in detail and depth. I know that it is not customary to quote the work of other political forces or Members in this Parliament, but I do, as I have a statement that the work of the Court of Auditors is typically characterized by the search for faults at all costs. In order not to quote myself here, I quote Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, our stand-alone colleague, we are talking about a Member of Parliament who has informed Parliament about the work of the Court of Auditors in a very fair manner and in a way which I am very fond of. The quote reads:. The Court of Auditors has made no distinction between important and irrelevant issues, sometimes almost insignificant matters, such as the findings made on the preservation of some beer benches and the preservation of the property of a few beer tables, for example, a curtain-carnis, registered at a value of zero forints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I understand that it's important to work hard, but when you're looking for a bug, you can't tell if it's a minor problem, but it's a mistake, or a very serious mistake, I feel like it's a professional failure. So, on a scale of some kind, it would be worth interpreting the social damage caused by these very important errors and the social damage caused by those that might be more serious and possibly investigate them in other organizations. If you could support the social benefits of the Court of Auditors' activities with calculations and estimations, so to say it badly, Mr President, I do not want to offend you, but if the taxpayers could find out what they are getting in return for the dotation you received, so what social usefulness, what kind of budget utility you can find, then this debate would have an exit, it would make sense. But forgive me, those self-polishings, self-polishing figures, completely unnecessary illustrations do not make this possible, as the performance measurement cannot be shown in traces, not only in relation to the performance of this information, but also in relation to the performance of the whole organization. I must say that the compliance checks that are being carried out again do not affect the hundreds of municipalities whose public finances are essentially not controlled, controlled by anyone in Hungary, and the audit of the accounts and financial accounts of public bodies should, however, be carried out in my view in full, and this does not happen. I am very pleased that you have raised the issue of corruption, because in Hungary, in a country covered in the swamp of corruption, you would have a lot of tasks in this area, and obviously these tasks should not be carried out at the level of curtainscarnis, beer benches and beer tables, but in a slightly higher dimension. However, we can also see that although this issue has been raised in relation to health institutions, it is here that serious and complete sectors are excluded from the SAO investigation, and this is at least horrifying, at least dramatic. I did not want to push away from professional moments and respond to a political statement, but allow me two clarifications, Mr President, and then obviously in the ordinary debate, if you are a partner in this, we will continue this discussion. On the one hand, with regard to your plan of action, if, where appropriate, a party or organisation cooperates with you, so that Jobbik fulfils its legal obligation and otherwise fulfils its legal obligation, do not make it appear, and I ask that Mr President does not make it appear that the organisation concerned has acknowledged the inability to do what is claimed to be the case. Thus, in itself, the lack of knowledge of market conditions or the deliberate inability to know market conditions in the case of a contract on a market basis is a problem for an organisation to make such claims. But to say that the accused, let's say a party or one of them, would have admitted to the mistake that had been brought upon him, it simply does not stand the test of truth, Mr President. A plan of action, a legal requirement, compliance with an obligation, cooperation, that's a perfectly reasonable attitude for a party to follow. But it's not a lie, it's a fabrication, it's an accusation, and I'd like to state that in the strictest possible terms. Obviously, when international courts decide on this issue, and I have strong suspicion that Jobbik will benefit from this decision, I will continue to do so, of course, with due restraint and fairness, no matter how much their colleagues, Jobbik, have upset their heads, has not recognised or acknowledged any type of irregularity which the Court of Auditors otherwise wanted to recognise. I say this in addition to the fact that it is a law-abiding organization that follows all the rules and tries to comply with all the rules. At the same time, Mr President has rightly pointed out, and perhaps one of the key speakers has also highlighted the obligation to contribute and provide information, I believe that compliance with this is very important. [[13.20]] However, Mr President, my request is for you to reconsider the operation of your own organisation. So when you require data, these data required by Jobbik's economic director and vice-president within the framework of a press conference, Mr President, so to the broadest public, that the appearance of the secret may not be... it may be ridiculous for you, for us it was a tragic situation, Mr President, let us not joke about this. So when the economic manager and vice president of Jobbik brings the data they require, and you don't accept them with similar accomplices, then on an imaginary scale of flexibility, say, one to ten, where would you place them? 'Cause I felt like that was about minus three in that situation. I really hope that's not typical, and it won't stay that way forever. But you also need to see and be critical of the fact that here there was a willingness to cooperate in this organization, Jobbik. [[Dr. János Volner will be seated.]] Now, my vice-president, who brought the information you requested, would have provided it if you had accepted it. I very much hope that there is a professional explanation for why this has not happened, although I do not believe that it can be found. With regard to the future, and I do not assume, of course, that there was a political reason, although my fellow Members are whispering here that we do not necessarily exclude this, I would be interested to know why, if there is an obligation to contribute and provide data, it is precisely in the interest of the person who would like to conduct an effective investigation, who receives budgetary forints in order to conduct these effective investigations. And perhaps you can see, Mr President, that the provocative self did not prevail in the lead speaker's round, so I tried to make some substantive points along the lines of absolute fact, but at the same time let me expect the substantive answers to that; not necessarily in my own name, but in the name of the political community behind me, the people who voted for it and who are sympathetic to it, because in the Hungarian policy, an unprecedented series of phenomena took place in relation to the Court's audits. I do not want to point out for earlier periods why similar cases have not been investigated in other parties, in other periods, because we really are trying to hold this as a professional debate, but I am afraid that I will not get the professional answer to my points, only in the closing word. That is why I am asking you to do this right now, in the middle of the debate, to make these answers possible, so that we can complete or respond to our questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-52	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I've prepared a different type of comment. This debate could indeed be conducted in such a professional way, as my better fellow Member has done, but I think that the problems with the Hungarian State Audit Office are much more serious than what we have heard here. I am pleased that the President stayed here, unlike last year and the year before he left the debate after his expo, so that he may have the opportunity not only to hear the suggestions and questions from his representatives in interpretation, but also to have the opportunity to take part in the debate or even to comment on these comments in the close word. It seems to us from the experience of recent years that the State Audit Office is increasingly engaged in party political work. The most peaked period of this was the pre-election period, when the State Audit Office carried out investigations, fully consciously and probably on the basis of some sort of party political order, in a way, in a style and with a result that it had never seen before: it was vitiating opposition parties, punishing them, and finding everything in order for the ruling parties. You probably believed the sentence that Viktor Orbán used to repeat that you have zero tolerance in the area of corruption, probably when you are left out of it. But basically, we see more and more that compliance with expectations is becoming more and more dominant in the management of the State Audit Office, and these expectations were either in line with the campaign or other party political orders. I would like to give you two examples. One is Jobbik's fine. I do not need to protect them, because they can do this themselves, but it is certainly remarkable, as this procedure has been carried out, with the results of this investigation, and they have been trying to make the opposition party impossible or revolver, so they are trying to put pressure on it. Now, in party policy debates, here in Parliament, the campaign has a wide range of instruments, but the State Audit Office has not been created for this, Mr President. It was set up as an independent organisation to look at, punish, or acknowledge the proper functioning of everyone on the same terms, and it cannot depend on governments, it cannot depend on campaign periods, as we have seen here in recent times. I'll give you another example about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The government had an intention to transform the structure of Hungarian scientific life, so that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences could be put in place in this way, and at that moment you found that there were serious problems with farming; we had not heard this from various studies of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences before. So it seems that when you blow the war horn, you'll be lining up nicely as the head of the State Audit Office as an ex-fidesz Member of Parliament behind this political message. I think we need to keep the State Audit Office away from this in any way. Then another area that you mentioned, I thought you were going to say more detailed sentences about it, is the area of corruption. My fellow Member Z. Karpat has already spoken about this for a sentence, but the State Court of Auditors would have a thousand things to do. If you only read the newspaper, you would see on a daily basis what types of abuse occurs in various state institutions. Only in recent times, perhaps today's news has there been questions about the Microsoft scandal, or on another subject, it is true that the state company also found out that several billion forints landed in offshore knights, while the Prime Minister here has repeatedly said that the age of offshore knights has ended, unless they are fidesz offshore knights. A number of other abuses are reported by newspapers, various media and media that would give the State Audit Office the opportunity to carry out systematic exploration here and to investigate these various institutions and public organisations, as it seems that, from European Union funds to Hungarian funds, through the spending of state companies, this corruption is simply a significant filter of the Hungarian public sector and that there is always some political client behind these corruption cases. Overall, I would also like to use the additional opportunities to comment in the debate, but I would ask the President of the State Audit Office whether he is able, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, or at least, try to, manage a State Audit Office in a party-neutral manner, to guarantee that he is not chosen on the basis of party policy considerations, who should be punished, because by how much and how; can he ensure this, or at least try to do so. I also understand if you say that you are under pressure from the Prime Minister, or because of his previous affairs, I must say that by pulling his tail in his ear, you always say yes to a political request that is said; I also understand that, humanly speaking. It is only then worth resigning, giving this post to someone who is competent, independent, who does not use it for political gain, and who does not assign this institution to political goals. As is the case now, they have actually received an "A" in self-police, because in various surveys it was immediately shown that many Hungarian voters here, everyone trusts the most, not the fire department, but the State Audit Office. But basically, I have to say that citizens probably don't have all the information we have in this. Unfortunately, this picture is much darker and much more negative, based on our approach to the State Audit Office, as it was when you took this job. I trust that this will go back nicely to objectivity and neutrality, and that the State Audit Office will not be used either to intimidate opposition parties or civil society organisations or any other organisation, whether political or communication, and it will not be one of the government's whips or a whip for party politics, the State Audit Office and its head, but an objective audit authority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[13.30]]
u2018-10-02-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give you the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett, please.
u2018-10-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to share with you some of the statements made by the State Audit Office in relation to its own operation, but unfortunately, the reality does not justify them. The SAO claims that the institution is an independent institution of the democratic institutional system. On the other hand, the President of the SAO is the former vice-president of the Fidesz faction, and unfortunately, based on the events of recent months, it is proven that it works accordingly. The SAO claims that the State Audit Office is an office, not a public authority or a court; it neither fines nor regulates, takes decisions on legal matters nor conducts investigations. Nevertheless, he fined the opposition's various parties more than half a billion dollars this spring, just before the elections, a fine that could not be appealed against. According to the State Audit Office, the SAO considers international standards and recommendations to be relevant for the establishment and application of the professional rules of audit. At the same time, it is known that opposition parties were punished for operating mechanisms found in order during the previous or nearly identical SAO investigation without giving them the opportunity to correct the errors committed. They did not give these parties the opportunity to prove their intention to follow the law and their good faith, and they simply imposed these fines. I'm asking you what international standards the State Audit Office wants to grow up to. I think that this cannot happen in a Member State of the European Union, but that it can only be a catch-up to some kind of Russian or Turkish standards where the primary aim of the opposition and the silence of journalists is to all institutions that are willing to serve the regime. According to the Court of Auditors, with its audits and proposals as well as the action plans, it primarily facilitates the orderly and transparent use of public funds and public assets. The penalties mentioned above have been met despite transparent, regular contracts and the billing that has been duly attached to them. The world has never seen an attempt to punish and punish public entities because they did not stretch beyond the time they covered, because they asked for offers on the market and subsequently questioned market conditions by the SAO's employees. I think this operation is quite simply unacceptable. The Court's statement is that the organisation seeks to promote the effective, efficient and economical use of public money through its audits. They also say that several analyses have been carried out in the framework of the integrity project on corruption risk mapping, focusing on prevention of corruption. We were very pleased to hear this, and I would very much like to have a professional debate myself, but if these studies and these projects were successful, our country would not receive regular fines due to corruption cases other than the European Union. The State Audit Office's objective remains unchanged and states that it will make public wealth management, the functioning of public services and public finance management more transparent, cleaner and more effective. If that is the case, the SAO should have noticed that the government propaganda sold by the Government of Hungary as information of public interest, as well as the rules tightened and arbitraryly interpreted by the opposition parties, is a noblely forbidden party financing. While the opposition's parties often suffer from a few tens or hundreds of thousands of items of fines which almost completely render their operation impossible, the billions of taxpayers and tens of billions of blue posters of blue posters are endlessly disrupting the government parties' communication of self-interest, without any consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, It is in the interests of all Hungarian citizens that the SAO finally functions as an independent body, so that it can finally carry out its task. It is unacceptable that, in a European country, the State Audit Office serves the self-serving aims of the governing parties, even though we have seen this in recent months, and almost all of us have suffered from these processes. In addition to enforcing the rule of law standards, we must also address the restoration of the SAO's independence, and I am very sorry that so few people are present in this debate, because I think that is what we should primarily clarify to each other, no matter how many governments they have. The SAO is currently contributing, like a number of public bodies, only to the stabilisation of the ruling parties and to the inability of the opposition's work. I therefore ask you not to accept this report in its current form, and not to promote self-interest in political interests. Think about it, it is also in your interest that the norms of the rule of law and the democratic institutional system are restored in this country. At the moment, this is not guaranteed, and unfortunately, the work of the State Audit Office makes a significant contribution to this. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-02-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so there will now be further speeches by their representatives. First, Congressman László Varju of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-57	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, In view of the words of the President of today's Republic, I can start with the following: no right-wing or left-wing SAO examination. If the State Court of Auditors had such a climate mood, we would be in a much better position, since instead of taxing heat pumps, you would tax or draw attention to money pumps. The situation of the Hungarian corruption climate would be significantly improved if at least one investigation was launched daily, even at the High Prosecutor's Office, to which OLAF drew attention. Then there would be less corruption that causes serious disease. As a result of the country's democratic climate conditions, people would rather not escape from here, but stay home and those who are at home would demand more and more modern jobs in order to make it worthwhile to stay home. Our trained nurses wouldn't be working as sinks in another country. This new world is much more beautiful than I can imagine, and I don't want to save our planet, but our children's near future. How should you be ashamed of that, Mr. President? Yeah, because you'd have to do a lot more to do that, and then you'd have to do it without a right-wing or left-wing SAO test. So I think you should, yes, blush. To get rid of politicians who have been exposed to corruption, the Decarbonisation Roadmap can help a lot, but this is only the first step they can take in this. The SAO's climate change strategy requires a concrete action plan, which I would like to help you with. So you can think that I will not pretend, for your sake, that the State Audit Office is an independent state institution that protects democracy and oversees the management of the institutions, including the parties. Since 2010, such an organisation has not been able to be implemented. We remember exactly how the State Audit Office attacked opposition parties in the election campaign. We also remember that interestingly there were no objections raised at Fidesz, which campaigned to the point of nosebleeding on every surface, and which was probably ten billion people. We also remember that you, Mr President, acted as a fidesz politician until 2010. Let us listen to some of these fine times. Fidesz membership was an important stage in his career, and between 1998 and 2002 he was the deputy leader of the Fidesz faction. And in 2010, he found himself at the head of the SAO, and what a coincidence, just after a government that Fidesz found no catch in 2010, in which, according to Lajos Simicska, you could not account for billions of dollars. You have occupied the State Audit Office as well as the prosecutor's office: you put an old accomplice in charge, who does the dirty work at the touch of a button, according to the will of Viktor Orbán. [[13.40]] It worked! You are above the laws of the prosecutor's office, the State Audit Office, and the law is not important even if opposition parties are to be punished, discredited, financially weakened. Thus, according to the State Audit Office, Fidesz itself imposed a fine of HUF 16 million on DK in the election campaign. Let me tell you, since we've gotten together so well, let's talk a little bit about the SAO's audit practice. The State Audit Office shall also publish on its website the audit report of the party foundations and any other organisations it controls, such as the municipality or university, the observations of the person concerned and the Court's reply. The SAO has published the party inspection report, but how interesting! the opposition parties' objections to control are not published, but only the Court's replies rejecting them. Tell me, if you believe that the SAO's controls are in compliance with all the laws, they cannot be substantially contested, then why does the organisation not include the parties' objections so much that it does not even put them on its website! I suppose that's part of the fact that you will never silence any of you who don't agree with you. But let's keep going. For some reason, the State Audit Office believes that the parties will maintain staff serving separate SAO audits. At least there can be no other explanation that parties should always be available for surprise SAO audits and scan and send thousands of documents in five days, of course uploaded individually to the SAO's last century electronic system. The Court of Auditors law does not contain any quantitative limits that can be requested from a party within the five-day deadline, and this is a far-reaching abuse of the organisation. And how interesting, you have also put an end to the SAO's practice that after the five-day deadline, there is possibility of supplementing and filing if necessary. I'd just like to point out the attitude that the SAO is controlling, there's no cooperation, there's just Ukaz and there's a demand. But let's see what the real reason for punishing the Democratic Coalition was. The State Audit Office claims that DK rents real estate below market prices. It does not say which real estate or real estate it is, nor does it say what it means by market price and on what basis it defined it. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Audit Office works so fantasticly that to date, we do not really know what property we have rented at a very market price. To this day, we do not know exactly what property we have been punished for, because the State Audit Office refuses to betray us. That's a fair, transparent operation. Let me remind you of the wording of the law on you: The State Audit Office develops the professional rules and methods of the audits it carries out and makes public the rules it has established. To date, we have not been able to make public what property market price estimates have been used to punish us, so the State Audit Office itself is constantly violating the operating law. Do lawbreakers claim we've broken a rule? It's a joke, but it's a little harsh. The punishment is even more ridiculous if we remember that in 2013-14 DK rented exactly the same property as now, at exactly the same price. Then they didn't raise any objections. What justified the change in your position? Has the opposition become more scary for you in 2018 than in 2014? Did the State Audit Office not know that such problems would be solved by the National Election Office election software? And if, at the beginning of my speech, I spoke about the fact that the Court of Auditors is not so important when it comes to punishing the opposition, I can give you a concrete example of this: the professional interpretation of the Chamber of Accountants differed on several points from the Court's interpretation of the law, there was a dispute between them in the interpretation of the Accounting Act. If everything happened to the State Audit Office on a professional basis as they claim, there would obviously not be an example of this. My personal favorite, however, is just coming. The Court of Auditors has also made reprehensible findings where it has drawn attention to the fact that the area is not regulated by law. So one minute the SAO says that it's not regulated that this is the way it should be done, and then one page later, you say that it's no good, and it condemns the party. It's hard to imagine a more transparent, obvious brawl. If he's wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's not wearing a hat, that's the problem. And then let's see how it's possible that this organization hasn't been told by the court that what you're doing is anything but professional work. Let me quote the SAO Act once again:. The State Audit Office's reports, the findings and conclusions contained therein cannot be challenged before a court or other authority. Well, that's it. This is a sentence that certainly does not appear in a rule of law in any of the Court's laws. It is so that no party can attack the decision that condemns him anywhere, nowhere in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, In a court of law, they would tear apart the disgrace the State Audit Office is doing to the opposition. You know that, and that's why you don't dare change that. Once again, no one in this House claims to me that the State Audit Office is not a Fidesz fist used to make opposition parties impossible. You'll have to say things like that when you do two things. 1. You will be replaced or you will resign, President László Domokos, head of the SAO. Your identity clearly makes a paper-based independent organization seriously unattractive. 2. They provide legal remedies against the judgments of the SAO. There is no such thing as a state organisation saying something, and there is no way to challenge or challenge the decision, to prove our right in a fair trial! Without these two, we have nothing to talk about, fellow Members. The current State Audit Office is just one of many institutions occupied by Fidesz. Don't expect us to accept any of the findings and reports of the former Fidesz leader. If the European identity and the desire for freedom of the Hungarians meant anything to you, they would do these two things today. If the historic moment comes when they leave their cowardice behind and give us the opportunity to appeal, we will protest in court and prove that Fidesz uses the State Audit Office to weaken and discredit its political opponents. If you will be able to prepare an SAO climate change plan, you can also say that, by borrowing the words of Pope Francis, you would not give the country over to our children as a wild wasteland for the enrichment of a few people, but would make it a paradise for ten million people, and it would be worth coming home. Until they do, the working Hungarians will go, not come. Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-02-58	Thank you very much. The speeches by Members seeking a normal word are now followed, first by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-59	Mr President, Dear House, I had some confidence that the President of the Court of Auditors would rise to speak in this way after the main speakership, and then there could have been a fruitful debate between us. That didn't happen. I look at Mr President, looking at the group dynamics among you; I see that one of his advisors is very dissatisfied with opposition speakers, because this is strongly expressed by his mimics and sometimes by his phlegmatic expression, but I look at Mr President in the first place, because you are the one who can make this all a productive debate. I fear that, in the absence of your speech, a one-way question tsunami will rain upon you again, and then you will be able to give me some kind of answer in the closet; in this case, the possibility of a reaction is very limited, the maximum of our face can be revealed as well as your co-worker's. But we must say that this is unworthy of parliamentarianism, so here we could create a substantive debate limited to the facts, and I will be the one who has the courage to stand up and take it, because perhaps you can see in us that we are trying to address the problems that exist on the basis of professional arguments. I see that you indicate that you do not wish to speak, but I would like you to be brave, Mr President, because if you believe that the truth is on your side, then you must be able to defend it against opposition representatives. [[13.50]] So if you believe that in all these cases you have done the right thing, in a fair way, not only legally but also ethically, you can defend this. I would add that the management and control of parties are not usually a task for the SAIs, and I have not found much of a European country where a similar method would be in its instrumental system for the SAIs. In 1989, you may have had this license in a complex context of method change, but in my opinion it is very easy to use it as a political club. So the situation is, when data are not adopted and judgments are still being made, then the issue of a non-professional approach arises. And I ask you, Mr President, to respond to the fact that the SAO typically examined the management of the parties every two years in the previous period, there has just been an election period, and surprisingly, instead of the previous two-year term, the SAO began to examine the current year or semester; so, not in hindsight, an already closed period, as before, not every two years, as previously, but then, in a campaign period, the current year or semester. The fact is that according to the law in force, the frequency of the inspection can be determined by the president of the organization, so your discretion was to determine whether or not to break up with previous traditions or to insist on continuing them. You are likely, if not necessarily in one person, but decided to start in the middle of a campaign to check out the political opponents of the government that is currently in existence and which is still in existence. How ethical this is, let those who listen to this debate decide, but I must say that those familiar with the SAO's internal relations are more familiar than the already mentioned László Nyikos noted, that the SAO had received political orders during the previous decades of its operation, but at that time it consistently refused them. This can be seen as a very big difference compared to their current behavior. Although I have already mentioned compliance checks and objections, I would also like an answer to that. The most important omissions, in my view, are the total lack of accountability of all public funds, public finances and public wealth; therefore, in cases where public funds or abuses and abuses are being made in Hungary, your calls are simply cancelled. Obviously, I do not expect you to look at the path and fate of all EU funding, because you will turn to any rating or institute, and you will be told that every second source, forint from the direction of the Union will be stolen, corrupted, cheated, and that, through one of the corruption mechanisms, it will typically go into the pocket of a government contractor. But it is quite rude that the Court of Auditors has no substantive position in this matter. Allow me, Mr President, to say that the most important task of the Court of Auditors, the substantive control of the accounts, would be to check the spending plan set out in the budget, and not only in terms of compliance, but also in terms of efficiency control, according to international standards. And I must also say that this audit also typically contains critical findings in all fair market economies. In comparison, the Court of Auditors is surprisingly used to explain the government's accounts and to support the government's claims, which is simply impossible. So it's your job to check it out. I'm just asking you to do your basic duty. And I will continue to call on the President to stand up now, during the debate, to answer these questions so that a meaningful dialogue can develop between us. In the absence of this, I am not saying that this debate means words crying out in the wilderness, but the effectiveness of this debate is now clearly impaired by Mr President's behaviour. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-60	Now, please, the little pleasures of life must be appreciated, so that Congressman should proceed now, because President Domokos has asked for the floor. Before giving Mr President the opportunity to speak, on your behalf, I welcome our guests from Pásztori and Nagylózs on behalf of the governing party and the opposition. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Mr. Dumpy President, please.
u2018-10-02-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me say hello, too, since you've given me the chance. Several Members did not feel the need to greet them, but immediately attacked the entrance from a doorman. But I thank you, especially Jobbik, for at least not threatening me, as I did in my last comment in December, when I was openly called upon to intervene in the objective fact-finding of the auditors beyond the legal framework, and in the findings of the executive officials acting under the law as heads of control. I see from the debate that maybe few people know that the President of the SAO doesn't write the reports. Although I sign it, the individual findings are based on concrete, objective methodologies, the auditors seek to do appropriate, careful, responsible work. The President does not, of course, accept that he is sure, but rather that he has the proper insurance and quality assurance systems, unlike the former Vice-President of the SAO mentioned, we have established a very close control system. And when you send a message to the leader of the group on the phone, I certainly would not like to discuss with him how his activities were done, because his accounts have already been accepted by the Parliament, and we are beyond that. Today we are not discussing what was 20 years ago, 30 years ago, or just now. Allow me to say that the debate on the closing accounts, which the Member raised last time... obviously you know that there are not raid-like checks, but that every year, in accordance with the legislative framework, when Parliament is given the draft closing accounting law, we are basically looking at and carrying out the audit in advance in connection with the presentation of the accounts of 31 May, preparing for an assessment of the reliability of the accounts, which is otherwise very clearly stipulated by the law. We have repeatedly told Mr Nyikos that no financial audit has been carried out in his time, and there is no financial audit today, because that is not what the law says. The law says that a conformity check must be carried out. And when you decide what we propose, if you had read the report from last year, you would know that you are expecting a draft discharge law with a consolidated, profit-based accounting, then obviously we will verify the reliability of your claims, as all auditors do. So, at present, the Hungarian legal environment is not this. We've written this down for you every year, but it's no use. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Therefore, I think it is worth denying to the public, at least now, the incompetence that is being raised in this matter, and the statement that is contrary to the law that we are being called to account for. I can say that I agree with you that we should grow up 30 years after the change of regime, so that we have a report for the country that meets the conditions of the financial audit. It is not the case in all countries, nor is it mandatory, either within the European Union, but within the legal framework allowed the government to form a so-called financial bridge and submit it in the context of the closing accounts. We were just looking forward to the EDP report on Tuesday, which finally allows us to see what the government, Eurostat, is saying, and on the basis of the evidence, to see if that is what we are experiencing. We'll try to get this to you by Friday this week. I understand that you want to meet the needs of an active political party, but the House has an order, and I am aware that closing hours are not a condition for negotiation today. But after this question has been raised, and the accusation is that the SAO is acting illegally, I must reject it. And I must do the same with regard to the party law and with regard to the control of the parties. Jobbik may not remember it, but Commissioner Nyikos, because he was at the roundtable negotiations, as far as I know, on the side of the trade union, or somewhere in that area, I can say that I was still at university when the debate on this issue took place: then the parties of the time decided in Hungary, and today's legislative framework will continue to do the same. So, if you like, the outcome of the roundtable negotiations has been respected by this Parliament, not by placing this issue in administrative proceedings, but by highlighting it from the court and administrative court order. [[14.00]] It does not leave it to the tax office, not to the different authorities, nor to the audit body of the Ministry of Finance, but to the Court of Auditors, in this legislative framework, for example, it has incorporated prohibited aid into this system over recent years. Indeed, it is not a normal task, but in more and more countries they are looking for a solution to the control of parties and campaign, because in many countries no one controls it. As the President of the Court of Auditors, let me not ask you why such a law has been adopted or why this rule has been in force for 30 years. I think that the point should be discussed here, that the round table agreement must be broken and that the parties must be checked by court, let us say, by the tax office, and that it is possible to go all the way to Strasbourg in any political debate, and there to decide. It's not our decision. However, the law was passed, and after 14 the law was passed to tighten the illegal aid. As has been said, two years later, my colleagues have developed methodological approaches, this has been presented, all the then parliamentary parties have been invited, their economic leaders and we have informed them of the consequences of legislative and methodological changes. Obviously, you must know this SAO post no later than 17:00 at the latest. I'm warning you, we're talking about the last two years of inspections. I can therefore say that, on the other hand, the law is contrary to what Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian said. It clearly provides for regularity control, compliance with the legislation, not performance control, conformity control, not efficiency control, but strict compliance with existing Hungarian legislation. As MEP László Varju said, and Hadházy, I am sorry, from the mouth of Attila Mesterházy, we are equally checking all the controlled organizations. So we try to check the parties with the same set of criteria and the same criteria. Obviously, there has been a custom, by the way, during the period of Mr.Nikos, and every two years since 94 it has been predictable, alternated, it has the rhythm of when to check which party. It's a custom according to the law, by the way. So the check has been carried out after two years. [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] I do not want to respond to specific matters, because these are 18 reports and not parts of the current report. But let me just say that we've made it clear to Jobbik. I understand the specific issue, and it would be particularly good for you to decide whether there is a dispute now or whether there is a closed case in this matter. Because if there's a closed case, according to the House's rules, no authority, organization, institution will take sides. So don't make me take a position on a matter, if you don't mind me, abusing the fact that I'm being reported in which you think there's a dispute. The only thing I have to respond to is this, and we said that in communication, we indicated when this issue came to light that Jobbik had received an official transfer, where an authority raised suspicion of illegal support. He indicated, rightly, that he could not act under his own authority, because the law, the constitution, prohibits Hungarian authorities from acting. And he moved the cases that were or are typical of 17 in the first half of the year, which will be extended to 18; so this is not yet a controlled area. But here, specific documents, not from you, but from the authorities, have arrived. My colleagues have examined this, under the laws, as a single acting organization appointed in Hungary, in the case of illegal support, Jobbik has acted on suspicion within the framework of the law. Once again, on the basis of Mr President, the SAO did not make this statement, the auditors received these documents and carried out an evaluation of them. They acted according to the methodology announced in advance. We also considered this, because obviously you can't think that this is going uncontrolled, behind the thoughts of some SAO workers. Here, all the documents, not the president, have been looked at at at organisational level, and I have not done anything by chance on this issue. They know this very well, but they are consciously, constantly pointing to me, because all documents have not been signed by the President, you know that very well, you must know that. True, I take responsibility for the operation of the institution, but obviously there was one actor who examined this very question, so that they could not accuse the president of bias. I gave you a very clear mandate in every respect, and I did not say anything about it. I examined the cases, my colleagues looked at it as a 16th eye, as a control, and they could say that they followed the rules of procedure of the law and followed the rules of the methodology. So I don't know what to say. Today, the law says, once again, since the Parliament passed a law on illegal aid, the SAO has to verify it. My professional, acting in my name, has determined the compliance of the data required by law and contained in the actual documents, has established the difference in accordance with the law, and the Treasury has informed your President of the financial responsibilities that you have, in accordance with the law, in relation to the amount laid down and to the sum of that one more time. So not the SAO fined me, I would like to make it clear, but, I would like to make it very clear, the law itself provides for the principle, and the detailed rules according to the methodology agreed with you, my colleagues, with the greatest respect for responsibility, have verified very strongly that it has complied. Then I will react properly, because it seems to me that every speaker, at least from the point of view of the parties, is important. In terms of EU money, let us make it clear that Hungary... has made one of the most controlled areas of the then government and the current legislation since the accession of the European Union, so that they can be checked inside and outside, in advance, during the process, by auditors, after-controls. I don't know if they had the means to go to an entrepreneur or an institution, or to a municipality, because of the use of a European Union money, by the time it actually means it's ready, and then they'll follow up on how many checks it has to go through for another five years. If the SAO did this, I'd make sure they thought it was an act of destruction. So the SAO, in a safe way, has examined the risk of this, and the audit of EU funds is very high. In addition, it is also controlled by auditors because it is mandatory, you may know, to employ an auditor on the move for larger projects. The fact that we're having an argument with the auditors, but it's a completely different matter, I wouldn't bring that up here. But what I can tell you is that with EU funds, it was precisely in the context of the subway business that we had to pay attention. Therefore, the so-called government second line of defense, the control body Eutaf, which is directly assigned to the government, and which, by the way, is constantly being checked by the SAO from Brussels, has been checked by the SAO and has now been re-checked. On this point, we are in the process of drawing up our comments, be patient, and we will tell you how the main control body supervising EU money has acted in Hungary. Last sentence: In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, the Treasury is the control body. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-10-02-62	Thank you very much. We now return to your speeches, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2018-10-02-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, allow me to introduce myself: I am Attila Mesterházy. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Ákos Hadházy has a beard, but he's another person. I was chairman of the Committee on Budgets for the last two years, and now I'm a member of the Committee on Budgets, and I've had a few other roles in the past 15 years, just so that you can look back on my name from the record now and write with an ipsilon in case we write to each other. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Professionalism!]] I also have two comments. One is that he left corruption out of his statement, so he did not comment on this in the debate. [[László Domokos: Time's up.]] But perhaps the debate would have moved forward if you had given us some useful thought in this regard. [[László Domokos: I checked in.]] I have listened with all due respect to Mr President, and I would like you to listen with respect, even if you do not like what we are saying. [[László Domokos: It's not that!]] The truth probably hurts, Mr President, and I think it's much worse to listen to this than if it's not right for the opposition questioners and questioners. [[László Domokos: I was telling the truth.]] This is a place like this where you have to listen to what we say once or twice a year in Parliament, and then you don't care about it, but at least for the record, let us say our position. You have once held a press conference on the success of the fight against corruption not so long ago, while every year Hungary moves backwards according to its corruption perception index. He was talking about how fantastically well you control the use of these EU funds and how they will be monitored. Then replace someone at the State Audit Office, because they're somehow not doing their job right. Every day it appears that Hungary has to be repaid in the order of hundreds of billions of forints, or that Brussels funds are not being transferred, because they are stealing EU money, let me put it so simply, in case you understand it better. Then it may be that colleagues who do this do not receive proper instructions, have the right tools, or do not know enough what they should be able to do. In that case, there may be some changes to be made within the body. In addition, you write in Wikipedia under your own name that you have implemented huge reforms in the operation of the State Audit Office. Let us say that we can agree on this, only in a negative direction, but there it says that it chooses the control areas and the audited institutions by risk analysis. Here we have seen quite a lot of risks in recent years since 2010, which could then be more planned by the State Audit Office, and in case Hungary would not slip behind in this corruption index and ranking, I think we have made six places worse than in the last year, and Bulgaria is only considered a more corrupt country in the European Union than Hungary. Even if we make a comparison in the world, we're not in a very good place. And my second point would be to see which party is being controlled, or did you have a sentence that political parties should not be excluded from the rules, and, of course, politicians, for example, the Prime Minister. So if, let's say, he accepts a gift from someone, then he is also subject to the Hungarian rule, and Hungarian MPs cannot fly on private jets, for example. This looks like a big gift. It's not a ballpoint pen you get at an event, a balloon or a flag, it's going beyond the level we can get at a campaign event like this, but apparently it doesn't bother anyone in your ranks. In fact, the Prime Minister, not far from here, could say at my last meeting that he would do the same not only the last time, but also in the future, for the next thirty years. This is just an example of behaviour, which, as appropriate, shows that you have exactly the same attitude towards controlled opposition parties or organisations. Because we're not saying not to control political parties. Sure, check it out. That, as you said, is the statutory duty of the State Audit Office. Just don't double-check me. It shouldn't be that there's a place where they turn a blind eye, and there's a place where they act with the greatest rigor. Be as strict as possible, and by the letter of the law and according to the expectations of morale. I believe that this is the expectation of every Hungarian voter, not that they do not do the work they are required to do, as you said, by the National Assembly. Thank you very much. I was Attila Mesterházy with an ipsilon. [[Delight and applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-02-64	Thank you very much. We have a two-minute speech. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Listening to Mr. President and observing his work and perhaps the behavior of his colleagues and the whole milieu, he was somewhat familiar, and I wondered what might best characterize this. Allow me three quotes; these are, I stress, quotes which I am reading now:. These are the ones you ride? What you see with your blind eyes? Can you hear me with your deaf ear? You mean his blunt mind? You think that's worth the truth of our great goals? ! The one who doesn't trust us doesn't trust himself. Anyone who doesn't trust us doesn't trust our bright future. And whoever doesn't trust our happy, bright future is a traitor. Show me one person in the country I can't prove to be guilty in five minutes. For you, for me, for everyone! *The quotes are from the movie A Witness. I'm afraid, Mr President, that fifty or sixty years from now, this era will be recorded on such iconic films, such iconic films will be about this thing, which was also a funny movie A witness, but otherwise you would like to cry when you see the guarantees that should operate a rule of law, which should be the foundations of a rule of law, are constantly being broken down by the Orbán system over the last eight or nine years, and how much you and the Orbán government have stopped the democratic set-up for which very, very, very many people have fought; the democratic set-up that we thought would break up during the so-called regime change, and then you and the Orbán government have brought it back. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-66	We will return to the speeches of ordinary speakers. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik, here you go.
u2018-10-02-67	Mr President, Dear House, Let me give you a surprise: I commend Mr President for having the courage to stand up and react. But since you've done that, allow me to draw your attention to the questions you've left out of your answer. I understand that the time limit is limited, so it's tight for me, so it's still 15 minutes away. I'm trying not to take advantage of them for efficiency, but I'd prefer to operate on them with more short comments. But, Mr President, it would be possible to argue for a long time about the kind of aid that is prohibited. If, in a market economy, a person does not understand that a poster company will have empty seats at the end of each month; and these empty seats are cheaper than an imaginary saturated price by a market agreement, but still gives them to someone at a market price in order to at least pay off their rent, who does not understand this, the economist is not likely to have completed it. But I don't want to offend anyone, I'll tell you again, we can talk about this until morning. But, Mr President, when we talk about it and I have repeatedly said that our economic director and our vice-president have brought the data to you in a press conference, we still have not received an answer as to why they have not been accepted, so why have you not been interested in this effective investigation taking place as it should otherwise have been done. I'd like to make one point for you, because you made a personal remark. I'm not threatening you. I stand up with a manly attitude, I nail the questions. Mr President, I do not take as a threat what you have said about what is expected and what is not expected in the case of prolonged investigations, either, because I assume that I am dealing with a manly character who stood up and got into this debate. Yes, I commend you, and I hope you will answer the other questions. So we're not threatening you, Mr. President. Here is the injured party, who acted in good faith, and yet has been fined hundreds of millions, and I believe it is unjustified, I believe, that it is the Jobbik faction. It is perfectly natural that, since this has been put out of public procedure and there is no domestic remedy for the Court's decision, it is natural to try to achieve this abroad. It is also perfectly natural that the exit of such an investigation is unpredictable at the moment. So don't take it personally that I'm talking about facts and I'm not hiding facts. My request is that we talk about these in a normal style and in a normal manner for a meaningful debate. [[14.20]] But we also need to see, in the meantime, when Mr President says that the degree of control of EU funds is in fact among the best in Hungary, then we need to open a debate here and then we should be able to suppress it, but here, in the case of statistics in front of me with an EU background, I see that EU subsidies represent around 1.9-4.4 percent of the total gross domestic product in Hungary, so they have been commuting between the two values in recent years and public investments, let us hold on to more than half. So unfortunately, it is not a true Prime Minister's exposé that we would have built a stand-alone Hungarian economy. I wish it were true. But as long as more than half of the public investment here comes from these funds, it is very difficult to say so. On the other hand, the Hungarian corruption index has decreased by 19 points since 2008, i.e. since a very dark economic era, and the 41 national investigations carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Office and OLAF for the period 2013-16, Mr President, this second majority has been closed by judicial and financial recommendations, i.e. 85 percent of 41 investigations in the European Union, so they have revealed some form of unruledness, and the financial impact of the condemnations, hold on, Mr President, has reached 4.16% of the total funding. So we are talking about an extremely high rate of abuse, and then we have not yet touched on the corruption mechanisms that no office can reveal in its present form, yet we all know that they are here with us. Let me give you one example, Mr. President. If you think this system is clean and properly controlled, I say that if 36 percent of single-playing public procurements in one country, it's lying in the swamp of corruption and drowning. 36 percent single-playing public procurement? So much of the money flows to a character without any competition? About this era, they'll write books, lexicons, novels. Mr. President, is that what you're talking about? Amazing, impossible! In my opinion, a man can't do this with a clear conscience. Although I am not interested in asking questions of conscience about you, I have to say that I thought it was important to clarify these questions in order to realize that we are living in two completely parallel Hungarys. So when you say it's a properly controlled system, a system, and I bring you the specific facts of why we're drowning in the swamp of corruption, it would be good to find the passage between cart camps and the roads where these corruption mechanisms can be eliminated. For if it is true that the Court of Auditors or its President is speaking about this world of corruption, if it does not sing praises, but is so positive, then I will use the suspicion lawsuit that it will be true in other areas that they see reality differently than it does in the Hungarian Ugar, it occurs and it exists. I have to tell you that these figures are quite amazing, and we've heard some pretty amazing allegations, but I'm still maintaining my substantive questions. So if you have observed my speech, there were no personalities in this, no signs, no qualifications, even when Mr President spoke of threats and other things, while there are plenty that the Jobbik faction and this community could take as a threat, but I still hope that in a debate in the professional arena we can get substantive answers to questions that rightly hold public interest. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-68	Thank you very much. Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz, please.
u2018-10-02-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I did not intend to comment on this point originally, but my good conscience still calls for me to make a few comments to speak to you. One of them: I see the fact that the Jobbik faction is actually having a debate here on a decision that is offensive to itself. This is, after all, unworthy of parliamentarianism and unworthy in this House of trying to have an individual dispute or individual viewpoint, replacing a court procedure or an official hearing, to conduct it here. So I think that Parliament is not the place for its own examples or for its own interests. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The second is a clarification, namely that the data on single-playing procurement procedures were identified by President Rigó, President of the Authority, at 16.6.0% for 2017, so that what is said here is either for another year or may be based on other errors. My third point is that our government, including the relevant judicial bodies, but here I would also like to highlight the work of the State Audit Office, devotes considerable work and energy to revealing corruption or corruption cases. In this context, as is probably known to you, cases around metro 4 have been discovered, and in this round it has been proved, so to speak, by fact, that the Hungarian budget has been damaged, so to speak, by more than HUF 167 billion, and, to a large extent, this was clearly the basis of corruption. So when it comes to the change in the corruption index, it is due to the fact that such data is being produced, which is precisely the result of our own exploratory work, and it is clear that the socialist-balliberal government has been at the forefront of the so-called implementation of corruption cases and the enhancement of this item. So I think that the change in the corruption index is precisely the result of our own anti-corruption activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-70	Thank you very much. Two-minute speaker Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, I would just like to say that there is a high growth, low inflation, high employment, low unemployment, a deficit of less than 3%, the general government deficit, the government debt rate is falling year after year. These are the results of the Hungarian economy, and all the audit organisations, including the Court of Auditors, have a role to play in this, so I would like to thank the President for his professionally substantiated report. It is a very regrettable event that this is a political debate on the part of the opposition parties here, often as Mr Bajkai has indicated, this report has turned into a personal debate, while it should be an elevated event. And it is not true that the Court of Auditors is not recognised abroad, it has many international recognitions, if that matters. I think it matters. He organised an international anti-corruption seminar, represented by 49 SAIs, organised several workshops, according to Open Budget Survey's latest report in 2017, the SAO is one of the best performing SAOs. They all suggest that the State Audit Office is doing its work well by means of international standards. And speaking of parties, Mr Mesterházy introduced himself, perhaps he should have introduced his party, and in recent times the press has been loud about what economic success the Hungarian Socialist Party has unfortunately achieved. Jobbik may also be qualified for a series of procedures that have been raised against the party in terms of farming. Bringing the corruption index of all Soros organisations here, I think it is inappropriate, because there are a lot of organisations that classify countries in one way or another, most of all by the standard of serving George Soros either his organisations or not. Hungary does not serve it, so it is no coincidence that Hungary is where it is, according to the indicators of Soros' corruption indices. So thank you once again for the report, and it would be worthy of this House if this debate were to be a professional debate and not to hear political slogans from the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-02-72	Two-minute speech by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik!
u2018-10-02-73	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to offend my fellow pro-government Member, but to bring Soros here for a debate by the Court of Auditors...! Congressman, please make a statement on yourself. That series of data I pulled out of here, do you know where it came from? The European Commission's inquiry. Is the European Commission a serial organisation? You may try to cover millions of Hungarian citizens with this madness through a sophisticated media network, but do you not think that the organization from which you otherwise accept EU funds is deliberately manipulating statistics for the benefit of George Soros to make it bad for you and your fellow Members? ! They've created an amazing world, and I really hope you don't believe that, but you said it for political reasons. I would like to inform you that the investigation was carried out by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Legal Affairs, Justice and Home Affairs, and that, as part of the procedure, the Committee on Budgets is preparing its own report. It is very far from me to handle it without any control, to use the different sets of EU numbers, recommendations, etc. Typically, you are the ones who bring various legislative proposals here as part of EU implementation, and this is not always a problem, but in itself to deal with statistics, professional debates, I think it is unworthy, it is really unworthy of this House. [[14.30]] I have really tried to have this debate here on the basis of facts and arguments. We have had answers to certain questions, so I do not feel absolutely unworthy of the situation, but similar speeches, like yours, really stigmatize these debates and certain situations. I also think that it is humiliating in a debate by the Court of Auditors to the authority of this House, but the fact that you are asking for a political debate on a specific issue in the Parliament of Hungary, where political parties are involved, is absolutely amazing! What era are you living in? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-74	Dear Members, The fact is, I must draw your attention to the fact that this item is the report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2017 and the report on the operation of the institution to Parliament. I understand that there is a great deal to be said about both pro-government and opposition, but we have been elected presidents to warn you of such things, and then I would like to give you the floor now... [[On the signal of László Domokos:]] Mr. President, do you wish to speak now? [[László Domokos nodds.]] You may speak, you may speak, but I would also ask the other Members to do their adventures here in this House, according to the item on the agenda. Mr. Dumpy President, please.
u2018-10-02-75	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I am trying to make it complete, in the first part, the President indicated that I should not exceed the time, so I am now trying, in the second part, to answer more, perhaps not so much misconceptions, not so much of the misinterpretation of the laws, but then a professional curiosity or misunderstanding, specific issues that I have tried to address in the first part, on the parties involved and on the other issues. I have not yet responded to this matter at all, as several parties concerned have said that he himself is involved in this SAO's report in the year 18, and I have indicated that it is about the 17th report, so I am responding as far as I can to the 18th year process, but this is not the subject of it, although it seems to be interpreted as a dispute, so obviously, if this will indeed be the subject of dispute in the international arena, although it should be known that the administrative court has otherwise ruled this matter and made it clear that, under the existing constitutional and legal framework of Hungary, this was the SAO's regular act and that your submissions were not possible to proceed to the court, this was well quoted, otherwise. That they do not agree with this, or that they do not accept it, I also answered: it is possible to touch the control system of the democratic basic institutions established in 89; here I know that there are parties that defend this, there are parties that would change that, I do not believe that it is the SAO's job to take a position on this issue, as to why the parties and later on the party foundations have developed in this way since 89, that the Court of Auditors checks it on a regular basis. And it is well-known by the way, and it is now being examined at international level, for example, in France, or in Germany, that the concept of prohibited aid may exist in other countries, only this legal institution is not aware of it yet in Europe, so in fact Hungary has been much more prepared, since 89 it has gradually strengthened the transparency of parties and the settlement of parties. I would like to point out that, given the recommendations of the Venice Commission and of various international bodies, you, Members of Parliament, have provided additional SAO tools, as this was the international recommendation by experts of the international organisations of the European Community, so that the SAO will strengthen the control of the parties, control of the campaign, and you obviously have contributed to this through any amendments to the laws of the relevant Parliament. We've come up with the campaign that you're allowing us to do... because it seems like everyone's already done with it. I would like to reassure everyone that this year, within the framework of law, we have started to control all parties, even all Members who have applied for state aid for their own campaign, will be monitored and even the issue of prohibited support is in this field of view. On this process, let me say, I am sure that I should not be the one who has to predict it in advance, and I did not do this, but I would just like to say to Dániel Z. Karpát that I did not say anything about it, neutrally I would just like to confirm once more the fact: this is wrong, it is unfounded on our part, because in any case we have carried out this check within a year, and we will carry it out with regard to the control of the elections in 18 years, and we will not go to you, Jobbik, because we love you, or do not, but because you have asked for money in the campaign, which is hundreds of millions of forints of taxpayers' money, so that your campaign will be more successful than any other party. I do not want to ask you to do this, but let us make it clear that we did not want to come to you, that you have asked for money from public money for the campaign, like any other nominating organisation, and that we will carry out this process accordingly, my colleagues, the auditors, and the auditors, and possibly in accordance with the law, and that we will continue to oversee this subject, not as president and vice-president, as the previously elected official, you have elected, but only as a systemic one-of-a-kind consideration, because you really have to report on it to you, but as the President of the SAO, as a former Member, I have never brought it up, nor will I will make any decision on this matter. So in the case of parties, campaign, party foundations, we pay very strict attention to it, and now this is something that Attila Mesterházy, who is no longer curious, seems to indicate to my answer, I know his name very well, I just didn't know exactly which one he said, I didn't know his name, I didn't know the subject, I had to look for it quickly, and indeed, he raised it, and I agree with him that the SAO had to measure it with equal standards. This, believe me, is not so simple when, on the basis of five hundred auditors individually differing professional positions, they want to act according to a single programme and method, but measuring this equally is a matter of a separate system structure. I referred to this to Dániel Z. Kárpát that this was not the case before 2010 in the SAO, which was built by my colleagues in recent years, precisely to this rightful professional need, as stated by Attila Mesterházy, that we should make factually, objectively, all documents with the same standards, and that we will review this in a quality-quality manner, and then, when we have the result, let it be considered whether the SAOs complied with the same procedure in the methodological framework. I'm not reviewing this as president either. So I'm used to saying, don't think I read 251 reports and the background of them, and all of that, I'm going to go into it myself to push the German minority self-government, or I don't know which organization. In most cases, it also has to be said that he is the current leader, I am not able to examine it either, as, once again, he was controlled over eight hundred last year, and this year the number of controlled organisations will be over a thousand, and our controls will be going back to 2-3-5 years. So how many leaders have switched is, I must say, simply physically impossible enough to track. But obviously it is my job, as far as I can see, to examine this risk, what kind of leaders have changed, because in itself, we can see that a transfer-over to Hungarian public finances, perhaps the party presidents who took over from one party leader, to the other, have not done so at a high level. I would point out that this is institutional and simple in the municipalities, but the only difference is that there is a law requiring a system of record and documentation of transfer and transfer, so perhaps it is more organized. What I have not actually responded to and what I would like to say is that Z. Carpathian talks to Daniel about the 257 official procedures he read and quoted. I would like to point out that a significant part of this is a public procurement matter which we have been asked to deal with, so that in the time of Mr Nikos the SAO and then... there were virtually not as many public procurement cases as the SAO has given suspicions in a year. So we can say that things are actually worse than before. Or perhaps the SAO is working better than before, since it consciously also checks the issue of public procurement. I would like to point out, as the President has pointed out, that the SAO is not reporting on public procurement, which has an independent authority whose report you are discussing, you may know, and that, if you do not resent me, in accordance with the President's intelligence, I would not go for an assessment of areas where the SAO is not the specific responsible control body, but this is the subject of a separate independent body, the Public Procurement Authority, which otherwise acts on this issue. [[14.40]] But I would like to point out that the SAO is also involved in public procurement, and that's where there are official matters related to government agencies, and there are police-related crimes. It has one common feature: they are not obliged to present the results of the SAO to us, and the law tells them to answer us, but it must be said that the authorities do not always enlighten us about exactly what they are doing, but exactly on the basis of the terms, forints, and pennies, what fines they impose and what they get, they share with us. After all, it has been said, in many cases because of the law, in criminal matters or in tax matters, a case has been delayed for years, decades, and there are still ongoing cases that were established by the SAO in 2008-2009-2010, and this has still not been completed. And the court is certainly not obliged to tell us what the final decision was, the last decision after the remedies. But I would like to say that according to the law, law enforcement agencies, the authorities, I believe that our auditors did not reveal and deliver a small number of submissions, more than before 2010, in the period before me, if I remember correctly, was over 200 in 2016. In international areas, I think that I thank the Member for his reaction, and I really do not think the SAO should do more internationally, because he is the supervisory body of the Parliament. They also say at European level that, of course, international standards are the guide, but everyone controls within their own mandate. There are places where they won't allow you to check the local government, there are places where the gt.s are not checked, there are places where they tell you that it can only be a regular check. The European and the worldview are very colourful in this. There's no such thing as a standardized organization. Organisations may be set up, which we consider to be model taxes, but obviously not copying in national sovereignty is the job of an institution to copy another organisation. And about the corruption: believe me, my colleagues have been very thorough about this. There have been several working groups on this issue for years. The SAO has been authorised, in accordance with your parliamentary decision, on matters of integrity, pre-corruption. I mean, he couldn't even get us to investigate corruption, because it's a police, prosecutor's, court-ordered task today, so you're asking him to defend himself, so to speak, until the last bullet, every criminal or violation you envy. This procedure is taking place in these cases, so this is not the area of the SAO, but in our view, the authorities seek to clarify the issues raised by SAO auditors in a sufficiently thorough manner as a submission, as a signal, or in many cases as a report. I would not take it out on you, because I have more respect for Mr Ritter, because he was quoted by another Member in our case a year or two ago, and I gave him an answer in writing, and I do not want to raise that question. They are absolutely right, we want to write meaningful reports, so it was very important that they summarized the most important statements. Believe me, our accountants are the ones who want to write down every detail that they've found wrong. As President, I prioritize reports that are not longer than page 1-4, precisely so that you can make it perfectly clear what is going on. Obviously, however, all the details are not listed here, which my colleagues are trying to describe in the awareness letters, what are the details from which we finally came to this conclusion. It's about the social benefits that I didn't say anything. I think that's what my entire expo was about. I hope they could use it. We have also seen the minutes being studied so that both the Parliament and the controlled use them, they use our reports, our analyses, and they try to make their operation better, more regular, more practical. I can only praise you, unlike you who were against your social benefit problem, I think the SAO's control issue is very effective. All I want to do is respond to the data request: they acted according to the law, and I looked at it on purpose how my colleagues did it, but I do not wish to participate in any more. If I understand correctly, there is a dispute in this, or at least you think there is a dispute, so I do not wish to discuss it at the moment, so I will obviously have to come back to this. It was Attila Mesterházy in the Academy case. Let us be clear here that the SAO has checked the Academy, even the R &amp; D area, and even international cooperation. Moreover, not only us, but also the European Union's control, said that competitiveness has increased and that the issues of research and development and innovation are not sufficiently effective, are not integrated into the economy. That's what the SAO said, and that's what I reacted to this summer. I quoted that statement from our reports, not in an actual political debate. The secretary-general denied, quite specifically, that a performance requirement could be imposed on R &amp; D funds, and I said that, on the one hand, neither does the Fundamental Law say that, neither does the Hungarian law, nor does the European practice say that, but it is necessary to comply with the performance requirement. So I would also like to reassure Mr László Varju that there is no right and left for the SAO, and we are trying. I should not be called on to make use of the right given by the EU, the right to free movement of persons. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Obviously, there can be all kinds of opinions about this, but maybe this shouldn't be accounted for by the SAO. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives' speeches. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik, please.
u2018-10-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read again the title of the item on the agenda: information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2017 and a report on the operation of the institution to the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President, for presenting to the Members present that the 2017 professional report is the subject of this meeting. This is important because after my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, raised the professional objections that marked the Court of Auditors' activities in a certain fine case, Mr President complained that he was talking about the case of 18. No, please, we're talking about the 2017 case. In 2017, decisions were taken and comments were made, and the procedure took place at the time in the fine case. And since it is clear in that procedure that there were serious technical deficiencies in the organisation, it is no wonder that a representative of a opposition party is speaking on this issue. To my fellow Member in Bajka, I would like to answer the following question if he already felt the need to say so. We are talking in Parliament about the professional problems that, for example, marked this control because we cannot do it elsewhere, because the extremely Democrat Fidesz in his Fundamental Law is the same as the 18th. In this article, the Court ruled that everyone should have the right to a fair trial and the right to an appeal, except for a social and organisational group, who is being controlled by the SAO. And since there is no right to appeal in Hungary against the SAO's findings, we cannot talk about professional problems elsewhere, only at the plenary session of Parliament, and we thank God for the fact that you have at least developed a system of organization that, if not elsewhere, at least in Parliament we can talk about the professional work of the SAO. That is why, therefore, my fellow Members have spoken on this matter and on these matters, and I propose that, if it is no longer considered to be a forum for discussion of professional questions, they urge their party and government to possibly amend the SAO Act to allow recourse to judicial redress for unlawful, abuse and professionally unfounded statements, and I promise that the reports will never again be spiced up in life by such a debate. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.50]]
u2018-10-02-78	Two-minute comment, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, independent.
u2018-10-02-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, The reason why I asked you to speak again is because I think it is very important to say that if we are encouraging our citizens to do so, and as liberals, we are doing this to my fellow parties, so that if I violate their rights, they should speak up. Unfortunately, this is happening more and more in Hungary. You mentioned the principle of equal treatment between the various organisations under investigation. I would also consider this to be the guiding principle, but I also think that it is also the rule that, as time progresses, the SAO should provide the same professional compliance and the same professionalism towards these organisations. At the same time, our own experience and I think that this should be part of a professional debate is quite different. We found that two years ago, when the elections were quite far away, the very same operational mechanisms that I mentioned in my speech were subject to a completely different assessment. In fact, at that time, your colleagues were very willing to help my colleagues correct any errors that might have occurred, and assuming that we were a law-abiding citizen and a law-abiding organisation, they didn't think that the crimes were intentional. So I think that this has been very different from the current SAO investigation in the opposition as a whole. I don't think it's surprising that in this way we're speaking out against the last six months that's been going on here. So I would like to thank you, if Mr President would take these speeches and pay attention to this in the future. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-02-80	Thank you. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2018-10-02-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, allow me a clarification. There is no final court decision in Hungary at the moment. What happened was that we challenged the fine order, and the administrative court rejected it in the first instance, and we appealed. At the moment, both you and we are waiting for a decision. So if Mr. President doesn't have any information on the next court ruling, we're still waiting for the resolution. That would have been one of them. The other is that my fellow Member from Bajkai said that these figures are not good, because there is a 20% share of single-playing public procurement. My fellow Members, this is too much! That's a lot too. The question is how much damage these single-playing public procurements have caused in this country. Allow me to give you one example in a similar case. The Prime Minister's Office had a pull that tried to outsource the financial control of large investments in the EU and entrusted it with a commission fee of HUF 5 billion to a company, or two, who tried to do it, a law firm and a public procurement firm. Then, over the years, it turned out that it didn't really work, because the task that would have been to indicate irregularities and the like couldn't be fully implemented, so it was a misrepresentation. Now, as a result of this work, Brussels may be able to take a hundred billion forints from Hungary as a punishment. This law firm was your law firm with a public procurement firm. It's a question of how much damage there will be. So to say that these public procurements are going in the right direction in Hungary, I think that you are not exactly ethical. I have one last question, Mr. President. In the legal environment we are talking about at the time, because the laws have changed since then, in supermarkets, there are seasonal sales in different stores, usually at the end of every season. It starts from 30 percent, 50 percent, and then at the end 70 percent, because it is in the interest of the marketer who is there to get rid of this product and sell it for what it can be sold. If, in that legal environment, Jobbik for Hungary had walked into such a store and bought white T-shirts, say, ten thousand white T-shirts, because that was what Jobbik for Hungary was needed by members of the Movement, would that business have done illegal party financing against Jobbik? I mean, he would've given me this product with a very big discount. I said it this way, although this example may not completely cover the same thing, because perhaps the commoners will understand what we are talking about. 'Cause saying that it's the posters and putting them up and all, in this professional mess, you're completely losing your citizenship when you need to find out what it is to be banned from party financing. That's our problem, because the same thing happened here. The assets of a market participant which are assets remain... [[To László Böröcz:]] You can smile about it. It's the only way. So it wasn't like it used to be at Fidesz, because that's what you're thinking. It wasn't! It was that we had a contract where we couldn't even know what places these posters would be, because the posters were bought by Jobbik, ahead, at a fixed price. And you didn't even know how much that would be. Because if this company had been able to sell them all and had two posters, we would have bought two if there had been more, more. Where he was locally wasn't even known, because the market defined him, the market that started putting up the posters and buying them from this company. It's a market economy. The same thing happened. These were in the documents, by the way, Mr President, which, if we had been able to present, you would have seen before that such things had happened here. So these are our problems, and it really isn't, if at any level, the strictest possible examination of either the parties or other organizations in Hungary. We, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, have always expressed its desire for transparency. To give just one example, the Jobbik is the only party in this Hungarian Parliament, whose representatives are not required, since you have encrypted the family's property statements, they are placed in a sealed envelope at the immunity committee for 4 years. People do have the right to know what kind of financial situation a Member of Parliament has. We asked you to join us. [[To László Böröcz again:]] We asked you to drop him off, too. Drop it off to a household relative with you... I'm just saying it because he laughs at it. [[Referring to Dr. László Domokos:]] It's not Mr. President anymore. It's the congressman before him. I don't know the names either, it seems like there's always... [[László Böröcz: Shall I introduce myself? I'll introduce myself.]] I know what your name is, by the way. I just don't want to tell you. [[Defiance.]] We asked for you and everyone. Why didn't you put it out? It's just, maybe Fidelitas and Fidesz aren't fashionable, by the way. Why didn't you put out a statement of property for your family in the household with you? And then you can compare it. For us, four years can be compared to how much we have become rich or how much we have not. That would be transparency. So we want transparency, we want these checks to take place as far as possible and as rigorously as possible. So we are not against controls, we are not against them taking place on an absolute professional basis and with the best possible goodwill, but not to use such things for political purposes. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-02-82	Thank you very much. I like this conversation. The development of the European protocol has always been in my favor, so if you don't know each other's names, just let me know, I'll introduce you. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] György Szilágyi, László Böröcz, László Böröcz, György Szilágyi. (Faintness.) And then you know each other. However, in order to conclude this essential part, it is now up to President Domokos, who has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-83	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm trying to answer, although I don't think it's worthy in two minutes, it's just an element I have to respond to to to close it once. At least that's what I'm asking. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is right that in 17 it was a task, but the report was published in 18th. I didn't shut myself out of the debate, I just made it clear that after you guys have dealt with it as a dispute, I think we'll wait for it to take place. It's just that György Szilágyi misquoted it. The Metropolitan Court of Justice has taken a decision in which it has been rejected, not only by you, but also by the other parties. That's why they can go to the international scene now. Otherwise, they wouldn't be able to go, because first you have to exhaust the domestic legal process. Why don't you two talk about where this is going, and I suggest you don't ask me for it, so just let me do it. I don't want to say anything about the request for data, but it's just a few things to learn when you've come up with it. There's always been a way for Jobbik to turn over the data within the legal framework. They didn't pick up the letter when we informed them we were coming out on business. They didn't take over, but we notified him. It's true that the D.A. said that it was okay, but that's what we're arguing about anyway, because in a headquarters, according to accounting law, we have to have the data available, and they didn't do that. Time has passed because we cannot examine the context of the counterfeiting of data, since we are not a investigative body. That is why the law ensures that the matter is immediately and within five days, because the SAO does not ask for extraordinary things, because, once again, we have agreed with your presidents, financial experts, what documents we will ask for and what methodology we will follow, and that is why the change that you may object to has happened. [[15.00]] In the 15-day frame, everything was written about, just not about new data. They didn't give it to me when they could. The law gives you this right and opportunity, they haven't handed over any new documents that have been found or developed on the move. As a last thought, I would like to say that the SAO should not be responsible for the illegal support of the parties, but for the party itself. That's what the law says, and you didn't do it. I say to Mr Szilágyi that their property returns may not be public, but their contracts are not public. [[György Szi-lágyi: What contract?]] Well, the one with the forbidden support. They could have at any time made these certain contracts public. [[Dr. László György Lukács: How many economic companies have a public contract? Let's not talk about business secrets.]] which they didn't give us, or, as I indicated, we received the documents relating to them from the authorities. That's why we can't publish it, because it's official data. And then I wouldn't drag it any further, that's all I wanted to react to.
u2018-10-02-84	Two-minute comment, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2018-10-02-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you mentioned the MTA and I would like to thank you once again for your participation in the debate, which is a rare feature of Parliament's debates in recent years. [[László Domokos: It's not personal. No!]] I say this without any sense of humor or irony, and thank you once again to Mr President, he said that the MTA was also examined in terms of efficiency in this regard; that the research of the MTA is not properly integrated into the economic operation, and that this efficiency was lacking by the SAO. For this reason, the same efficiency assessment could also exist in the use of EU funds, as there are numerous instances where this right is not necessarily linked to this government, which could be interpreted as an earlier suggestion that these EU funds are not being used properly. Moreover, given the feedback from the European Union over the past period, it seems that there are systemic problems with the use of resources in the Hungarian EU. So in Hungarian, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these systemic problems are likely to fall within the scope of the SAO. And to your comment on the MTA, let me respond so much that I should be a little positive too, that your sentence may have only been said in unfortunate time, but in any case in the media space I am sorry, who are more aware of these things from this consumption, however, there was too much correlation between the two initiatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-02-86	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, As no one can be seen on the monitor, this statement was made at this time when Mr Bajkai, as a Member, had not yet indicated, was therefore no longer valid. Here you go.
u2018-10-02-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'll be very brief, because if I had a long answer, I'd be in a dead end myself to talk about personal matters, which seems to be the Jobbik's goal to bring this debate into some personal matters and partly create a mood. Thank God, Mr President's answers remained in the field of professionalism, and in the framework that is the point on our agenda today, I would just like to say one sentence, if I have already addressed it. Partly the rules of the legal profession require me not to talk about the work of a lawyer, so I don't talk about it, with whom it can be discussed, is always a client, in this case, or in this case, the Prime Minister's Office. However, I would like to say to you that our law firm in relation to our work as a lawyer or in the case in question, if there has been any grievances at all from the investigative body of the Union, has not yet been contacted. So that's all there is to your statement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-02-88	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an applicant, so no one has applied for any further speeches, and the joint general debate is closed. I will ask President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr. President says yes.
u2018-10-02-89	I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate and for the work that my colleagues have done, and I hope that we have been able to contribute to the clarification of some of the issues that need to be clarified. I think in most of the answer, if something is missing, I have now reviewed my notes, and we may be able to add them in writing, given that we are actually taking it seriously at all times. I tell Attila Mesterházy that, to my knowledge, I may not remember everything in eight years, but in the SAO report, unless there was something quite extraordinary, I was always here. You may have been a vice president in the accounts or in the opinion of the budget, but then we weren't the draftsman, by the way, so don't ask me, if I may ask, to account for something that... because then you can't drive... then the meeting would have stopped if it had happened. As far as I know about this SAO report, it didn't happen in my eight-year-old memory, and now I've asked my colleague. That's all I'd like, in the spirit of fairness, if you've said that word in the end, and I thank you for that part of you. I'm trying to be here, but the house rules would object if that were the case, because otherwise it would not be possible to negotiate in Parliament. [[Attila Mesterházy: I may remember wrong.]] Okay, then I won't get involved. Perhaps there was a time when the SAO was also a speaker and did not wait for the end of the debate, so I apologize if this caused a lack of feeling. Thank you again for your comments. Where risks have been identified, we will obviously examine them, and accordingly, as in the past, we will take them into account in our controls, compared to our options. Thank you once again for your participation in the debate and for the correct leadership of the Presidents. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-90	Thank you, President Domokos. I ask Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2018-10-02-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In view of the fact that the debate was not, as usual, on the agenda, but on the whole, I do not think that I have to respond to what was said in the debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-92	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. Dear Parliament, We will have the opportunity to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general discussion and conclusion of the proposal for a decision on the Second National Climate Strategy for the period 2017-2030 with a view to 2050 will be continued. The government referral is H/385. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the President of the Republic spoke, the opening speech by his author and the speeches by the lead speaker. We now have further speeches from our representatives. The order on the monitor is first, Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz.
u2018-10-02-93	Mr President, Dear House, Let us live and act in such a way as to ensure that our next generation also has the environmental, social and economic conditions under which they can live a worthy life. This includes responding to the challenges of climate change which, both in the present and in the future, ensure our well-being at individual and Community level, better protection of our natural environment, and the ability and opportunity to successfully adapt to natural change. Climate change is a complex environmental and economic and social challenge that threatens the quantity and quality of the natural resources at our disposal at global level. [[15.10]] The implementation of the national climate change strategy before this House contributes to the long-term conservation of our living conditions in the Carpathian Basin, our water supply, our agricultural land, our forests and our diverse wildlife. It's in our nation's strategic interest. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary first ratified the Paris Agreement with a unanimous parliamentary decision in the European Union. Thus, the revision of the NÉS-2 draft began in the summer of 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly in March 2017 and in May 2017. The key to successful action against the effects of climate change is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to develop a coherent climate change adaptation approach and to integrate it into sectoral and territorial planning, decision-making and enforcement mechanisms. Dear House, In the first part of the general debate, while Hungary's first national climate change strategy was completed in 2015 and submitted to Parliament, the 2015 Paris climate agreement and the related Paris package introduced new goals and conditions, it became necessary to revise the domestic strategy. The five main elements of the national climate strategy are: the review of the current strategy, the strategic foundations for climate policy in Hungary, the national decarbonisation roadmap, the national adaptation strategy, the role of horizontal instruments in the fight against climate change, such as thinking, research-development, innovation-related tasks, development policy links. Next, I would like to highlight the main differences in content between the first and the second versions. The new strategy requires closer links with other horizontal and sectoral strategies. It contains more detailed and proportionate current mitigation and adaptation efforts, target systems and their hierarchy. It places greater emphasis on thinking and explores the effects of climate change on the basis of the scientific methods adopted. It takes into account territorial differences in identifying impacts and vulnerability. Particular emphasis will be placed on the monitoring system for mitigation and adaptation actions, including the monitoring of the objectives and measures achieved, as well as the possibility of a consistent assessment and analysis of domestic trends, impacts and mitigation and adaptation options, as well as the achievement of the relevant objectives. It is important to highlight the requirement to take into account the lines of action identified by NÉS-2, such as the national environmental programme, the national energy strategy, the national rural development strategy, the national nature conservation plan, the national forest strategy and the national disaster strategy, when drawing up and reviewing national strategic documents. Within 6 months of the adoption of NÉS-2, a 3-year climate action plan will be developed to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy, including a monitoring system for its evaluation and monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen, NÉS-2 contains a three-level target system. Overall goals: survival and meaningful development in a changing world, learning about our talents, opportunities and limitations. The thematic objectives are: decarbonisation, i.e. energy supply and industrial development with decreasing specific use of carbon dioxide; territorial investigation of climatic vulnerability, drought sensitivity, forest fire risk and public health risk of urban heat waves; adaptation and preparation for the effects of climate change and climate partnership. The specific objectives are short- and long-term objectives for each area of expertise. Dear House, I would like to highlight the climate partnership from the target system. Our country's climate objectives can be achieved effectively and effectively through broad partnership and socio-economic consensus. This is how it can really help Hungarian people to thrive at individual and community level and improve our quality of life while preserving the natural environment. In Hungary, awareness and public confidence in climate change, prevention and adaptation measures need to be increased. The state should help to build a social consensus, including through sustained and continuous examples of energy saving and climate friendly public procurement. The role of civil society, charitable and ecclesiastical organisations, local authorities and the participation of economic interest representatives and chambers in joint action should be strengthened, as it is essential to involve resources other than public finances in order to achieve climate policy objectives in a cost-effective manner. The Hungarian people's knowledge and attitudes about climate change have been studied in recent years. Their awareness of the subject has generally improved. According to the results of the 2010 national survey, the Hungarian population is better aware of the global consequences of climate change than of the domestic population. According to the latest survey in 2015, the majority of the domestic population are already aware of the main global and domestic negative impacts of climate change, but does not include climate change as one of the most pressing problems. He expects the solution from the researchers and the government. They think they can do less about it on the individual level. So we still have a lot of work to do here, but at the same time there is a significant potential for changing the attitude of the population, as 40 percent of the energy produced in our country is consumed by households. With changes in behaviour and technological progress, the 40% rate could be reduced by more than 10 percentage points; I note that the EU average is 26,5 percent. Hungary's largest greenhouse gas issuer is also the energy sector. Agriculture is 11 per cent below the energy sector with a greenhouse gas emission ratio of 7.5 per cent, while climate-friendly solutions can contribute significantly to meeting climate protection targets and to human health protection, such as reducing chemicals, reducing waste generation, selective waste collection or composting. Ecological transport has an important role to play, which is typically healthier, so public transport would be preferred, low consumption and emission vehicles and electric vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, Climate awareness must be enhanced in policy, at the level of legislation and public administration, and partnerships with the media are needed. Special attention should be paid to the economic and social side of the ecological problems caused by mankind. Sustainability approach-forming should be started more actively in kindergarten and given more emphasis in education. Churches have always played an important role in the education, approach and lifestyle of society in their historical role. Today, too, it is important for religious communities to convey the message of environmental protection. It is important to pay attention to the implementation of sample projects and to their awareness and promotion of society. These are good practices for motivation, guidance for people, communities and organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, The path set out by the national climate strategy is not about pushing environmental-friendly, climate-friendly solutions that cost Hungarian people, but about a step towards a socio-economic set-up that leads to sustainability, which leads to healthier living conditions and a better quality of life for Hungarian people, which can make our country, domestic businesses, more competitive, as a significant, profitable part of technological development and innovation points to climate-friendly solutions. It is important to note that the primary driver of NÉS-2 is not to comply with international obligations, but to achieve the national strategic goals of sustainable development. [[15.20]] Dear House, In the spring of 2016, Hungary first ratified the Paris Agreement by unanimous parliamentary decision within the European Union. Please support the adoption of the national climate change strategy before us. The aim is to put our country on a permanent path by 2030 to provide us with a sustainable future that is resistant to the negative effects of climate change. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-02-94	Thank you, Mr László Böröcz. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-02-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, In the last few hours, especially in the preceding hours, much has been said about this proposal for a resolution, and I think it is almost everything in substance, so I would like to add only a few thoughts. I am convinced that everything we are talking about today is, in many ways, like a question of faith. The environment has changed, changed and will change in the future. The changes that are about to take place are crucially unknown today, but no doubt influenced by human activity. Today, the debate is largely of a nature that Immanuel Kant, who at the time, in a small town of Prussians, in Königsberg, found in Königsberg, said that the problem with theology and the belief that there was no empirical proof, and that therefore the debates could not be decided. This is also the case in the given situation. I have to tell you, I hear very often that so many percent of scientists say and say this, while only that many percent of scientists say something else. Kepler and Galileo wouldn't have come to much if they had compared their own definitions and views and opinions with a large majority at the time. So that alone doesn't decide anything. The undisputed fact that human intervention can be detected and perceived to affect change in many ways is without doubt correct and fundamentally acceptable, that not today, but very, very long ago, from Rio's beginning, a kind of thinking has started to change that. I think the whole point of today is to continue thinking about it. And this thinking must be continued in such a way that, as usual, man must stand in the center here. To make it clear that the changes that we are seeking are not simply a justification of some kind of scientific goal or something, even less so that, let us say, we are essentially trying to change something that we hardly know, but rather that it serves people better. Therefore, a very positive element of this strategy is that although it is possible to think not only about a long period up to 2050, but also about objectives which are already understandable, can be pursued and, consequently, we hope that they can be achieved. Only strategies where targets are set so that they can be followed will be effective. I think that is what can be found in this strategy. Dear House, Let me tell you an old personal experience, because I share the position that President of the Republic has said here: our task, our fundamental task in Hungary is primarily to protect air, water, land and guarantee this. The strategy must also serve this purpose. On October 15, 1942, I was not the main character in Békésszentandrás, but the governor and the Prime Minister, when the dam was opened there and the power plant was opened, which was unprecedented here in Central Europe. I was lucky because not only my relatives, but on some 20-30 thousand cadastral moons, he gave a multitude of villages something that meant life. This is the direction that I believe should not be lost in scientific and pseudo-scientific debates. This is the direction that needs to be followed. For my part, I often know that I'm confronted with a certain kind of thinking, and I know that sometimes they think it's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one that's the one Nevertheless, I think that it is always the progressive one that gives the service in such a way that he tries to give the fullest possible to what our fellow humans rightly expect of him. Dear House, I am convinced that courage must be shown in the implementation of this strategy. There was talk of delays here, but it is clear that there have been different ideas in the world, and in which we almost thought after Paris that there was some kind of agreement, and that there is some direction that can be followed together, that they do not follow everywhere; in fact, it is very, very likely to be debated. We Hungarians here in Hungary have to adopt a strategy on this issue which cannot be part of party disputes, but in Hungary, in the Hungarian nation, we must focus on the service of this. Therefore, I think that in the coming time, water management needs new thinking. Every day, when I'm lucky, because I see the Danube, and I look down at the Little Danube branch, and it's in a desperate state for most of the year, it makes me wonder: are we completely helpless? Is there no solution that would provide us with the following guarantees of water supply in a sub-water country? Isn't there a solution? Yes! We must take bold steps to ensure that water, clean drinking water and all the water that serves this country are available in Hungary in the coming time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, today, in Central Europe, the room for manoeuvre is still quite wide and free. It's not gonna stay that way. Climate change is a matter of fact. You can argue about it, I'd say once again, I don't argue about religious questions, what the main reason is, but the fact is that this is an existing change. Let us be strong, others think about it, others think about it in such a way that they want to provide opportunities for their own nation. As long as these opportunities remain with us, as long as these opportunities are guaranteed, it is a sin not to do what is needed and what must be at our disposal in the coming time. Once again, I believe that this proposal for a resolution is also forward-looking in the sense that it wants to be balanced; not necessarily to meet some direction, but to meet the Hungarian needs that must be met. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-10-02-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I give the floor to Congressman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz.
u2018-10-02-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the processes from a geological point of view, then everything is absolutely fine. As President János Áder said, there have been similar situations millions of years ago. In addition, life has been able to spontaneously adapt very well, it is true that on a land-historical scale, climate change is changing. What we are talking about here is not only our planet, but human civilization, because when we talk about NÉS, it's about human civilization and us. After all, just as we have drifted away from our natural foundations, from water, from agricultural land, from the landscape, our ability to adapt has been largely lost. Unfortunately, the civilisational achievements of modern societies, such as utility supply, food supply, industrial activities, our infrastructure are extremely vulnerable to changes in the external environment, and that is whether or not we are causing these changes ourselves. Indeed, if we lose this adaptability, then security policy issues will come to the fore. I am pleased with the debate today, ladies and gentlemen, because, apart from the smaller and bigger political chatter, I see that we agree on a lot of things. [[15.30]] We agree that we are responsible for the world we live in, we are responsible for the planet that is our home. And we also agree that this is a shared responsibility, that everyone needs to be able to succeed. I had the same experience last week in Brussels when I attended the 10th meeting of the Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership. Hungary has been a member since 2004. The representatives there represented 51 states, two organizations, and 60 percent of the Earth's population overall. Climate change was also the main topic at this meeting. It is worth noting that the role of Asia and the Pacific region is outstanding in terms of both the causes of climate change and its negative effects. There is a risk index, the global climate risk index, and according to this index, four out of the ten countries most affected by climate change in the world are located in Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam in Southeast Asia. Many Members spoke at this forum and said how serious the effects of climate change can be seen in their country. For example, the Congresswoman in Bangladesh said that 18 million people are directly threatened by rising water levels in the seas and oceans. I could also sympathise with them because the Carpathian Basin is among the areas that are very sensitive to the negative effects of climate change. It can also be said that, based on a complex analysis of climate vulnerability, climate change will not affect the settlements of Hungary in the same way, there will be significant territorial differences. So, as between the settlements of Hungary, this difference can and will be observed between the countries of the world. Here I would like to bring to my fellow Members the system of sustainable development objectives, which was adopted in 2015. In the first part of the debate, when President János Áder spoke, he was accompanied by Csaba Kőrösi, who played a very important role in the development of sustainable development goals as the UN ambassador at that time. We know that we are dealing with this issue, that the Sustainable Development Goals include 17 main target areas and 169 objectives. And why am I bringing sustainable development goals here? For two reasons. One is that, according to previous analyses, the planned national commitments to implement the Paris Agreement relate to at least 154 sustainable development sub-targets and are adapted from 169. This shows that the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the corresponding NÉS-2 cannot be separated from the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and, as Vice-President János Bencsik said, NÉS-2 must comply with the condition of the transition to sustainability. The second reason why I brought the sustainable development goals here is because I referred earlier to the fact that the settlements of Hungary do not have the same characteristics and conditions, they will not be exposed in the same way to climate change, and so will the countries of the world. And what is very good about the approach to sustainable development is that it encourages everyone to act. But it also shows that everyone has to go their own way, according to their own terms, abilities, and opportunities, they have to make the most of themselves. And this view is also contained and carried by NÉS-2. But how should we act, and what must be our standard if we face this fight, which means climate protection? I would like to bring you the guide I received when I was in college, which said that the Lord God took the man and placed him in the garden of Eden to cultivate and guard him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This guide in the book of Creation also spoke in the speech of President János Áder, who said that we should use and not take advantage of our natural resources. But how can this be translated into everyday life? The well-chosen climate policy orientations, the sufficiently ambitious emission reduction targets, also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the country. This is a sentence in NÉS-2 and its description, and this draws attention to competitiveness, if you look at it from a further perspective, that this situation is not only a threat but also an opportunity for us. A lot of things are in mind, so it doesn't matter how we deal with the challenges we face. President Áder said this in his speech this morning that we can use it as a virtue. But if it's all in your head, that means we're dealing with the heads of men. I think that this is very true, and the structure of NÉS-2 shows this, because the national adaptation strategy and the partnership for climate are two thirds of the scope of NÉS-2. So two thirds of NÉS-2 are concerned with the heads of man, and they are trying to teach us, teach us what we need to do and how to look at it, to successfully adapt to the often rapid changes. It teaches us that in a changed world you can't think along the old pattern, you really need to have an attitude. And it also teaches us that knowingly we can overcome the problems alive, but everyone in their territory must do so. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said, said in the debate, many end-of-the-world images, citing the last judgment, have come to life before us. It has been said that we have no time to waste. At the same time, he hopes that we can turn need into virtue. We will also have domestic and international forums to do, debate, fight, exchange views on sustainability and climate change. However, I think one thing we should not forget is that we are the generation of transition. This means that neither our parents nor our grandparents had to cope with the tasks and thoughts that we have to deal with. And we know from our own experience that habits and thoughts are the hardest to change, and that takes time. We need to fully re-learn our relationship to our planet and our life, so we must not be alarmed because the road is difficult, so it really takes time to learn how to walk on it. And I urge my fellow Members to welcome all the results and to believe that if we socialise these ideas, we can achieve results together. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-98	Thank you, Congressman Mónika Bartos. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK Group.
u2018-10-02-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am happy to speak to the debate, but not to the debate of faith, because climate change cannot be regarded as a question of faith, who is on this path, has gone down a wrong, rugged path. It is an important matter, a matter that will be with us for decades; a matter that we will begin, but our grandchildren will continue to fight. CHAPTER XXI By the end of the century, the average temperature increase in the summer months could reach 4 degrees. The distribution of precipitation varies in a negative direction from an agricultural point of view, new diseases appear, and allergic periods increase significantly. And for a long time, we'll be able to list the deterrents. There's NÉS in front of the House today. We have this material in front of us, with many good and important statements. This sounds to me as if this government is interested for even a moment in whether environmental harm or emissions can be reduced, or possibly in helping to generate renewable energies. It sounds like this government is doing something, after all, if there's a strategy written somewhere, then there must be actions following it. Then let's see what the government has done in previous years in the context of the Great National Climate Change Strategy. [[15.40]] One of the first things they did was shut down the green ombudsman institution and shut down the Ministry of Environment. There is no supported investment in Hungary today where it has been examined in substance, and it would have been a decision-making aspect of its impact on the environment, air and wildlife. For example, I myself initiated a proposal for a decision that the only way to grant a building permit to investors in cities would be to do so. Fidesz voted against this without blinking. But I will give you another example: every year we in a different Hungarian city, opposition and DK had to prevent rubber burners from being built. You would've given me everything, state billions, strategic agreement, anything, nothing, with environmental impact and the release of carcinogens into the air. It was also important for us to protect the environment when you nursed a rubber burner and brought it from one city to another when you told people that they would protect their homes from such pollution. You will put Hungary in debt for decades for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The whole developed world is dealing with how more households can be supplied with renewable energy. We have proposed to add MNB funds to this amount, and thus create a house and house renovation fund. This would be the real energy saving, this would be the real fight against climate change. You are in debt to all Hungarians, from an old man to a baby born today. Plus, what's the rush? Even if the investment were necessary, it would be enough to start construction in 2027, since today's blocks can serve the country well by 2035, while much further progress can be made in other technologies. In the meantime, let's not forget that the summer heat waves were so hot this year that if you hadn't cheated on the measurement, the warming of the Danube water would have forced Paks I to stop. Honourable Members, Now I'm telling you, every year it gets harder to say that the temperature of the Danube is below 30 degrees Celsius. Global warming doesn't work for you. According to the report, every season between 2021 and 2050 the average temperature will be one degree warmer and there will be more heat waves and longer droughts throughout the country in the summer. The Danube won't be 30 degrees, it'll be more. If the Danube won't be able to cool the reactors properly, and in the summer, when most electricity is needed because of the climate, it won't be able to, it'll already be possible to see that Paks II will not only be stopped once it's finished, but also Paks I. Today, the best researchers in the world are thinking about how renewable energy could be stored for longer periods, in larger quantities, effectively. This is what concerns the developed world from the United States to Germany. What do you do? They destroy the Academy, eliminate the freedom of scientific life, hang research by taking funds. Right now, in these weeks, we're going to be at a competitive disadvantage in R &amp; D that we won't be able to bring in. We will not show the world the way, but we will go after the countries where our scientists are now fleeing. If the national climate change strategy were an existing and functioning thing, that would not happen. You want to plow the CEU, where the only Hungarian researcher who has received the Nobel Prize for Climate Research has worked. But let's see what else they've done. It's not nearly over. You have imposed a special tax on solar panels. All over the world, with tax incentives and state aid, they encourage solar panels to be installed, and you taxed them. This is a climate change strategy. Let us cross development and prevent renewable resources from being exploited that do not affect the environment. Not everyone else is on the highway, my fellow Members, but you are facing everyone else's progress, the future and common sense. But it's still not over. You buy buses for Budapest that have been scrapped in other European cities, not regardless of their emissions. The hybrid electric buses can come and go all over Europe; you prefer to buy the rejects for the Budapest cities that the European cities have removed. For the record, they didn't even save money, because if they bought normal buses, it wouldn't have cost any more. You could have made an environmentally sound decision. But it wasn't the only way to slap the national climate change strategy in Budapest. Environment here, air quality there, never a single government cut down as many trees in Budapest as you do. With the Liget project, we'll have a City Park of concrete and stone. Even though they strive to protect the city's air with as many public parks and vegetation as possible in every European city, you do the opposite. This year, according to the European Court of Auditors' report, the air in Hungary is worse than in China or India, Hungarians lose on average two years of their lives due to high air pollution. The European Court of Justice may impose another significant fine on our country for high air pollution. When you cut down the trees, however, you cut down the tree yourself and under Hungary, metaphorically and literally. But I don't want to be unfair to you because I'm just talking about what you've done. There wasn't much glory in that either, but then there were a few sentences about what they didn't do. You virtually do not provide domestic resources to combat climate change, and much more EU funds could be reasonably called down. The money is in Brussels, but it should have been called off so that Hungarian families could apply for funding. Not just a few billion, many tens, hundreds of billions. Of course, oligarch couldn't have started on this, so I understand why they didn't choose this path. At the same time, we could have set an example by saying that the government is not spending our money on career-enhancing stadiums, but on energy modernisation of schools and hospitals. You could have changed the openings of all the schools and hospitals, so maybe you wouldn't have a problem paying the gas bill. Since protecting our environment and adapting to climate change is not only our generation's responsibility, but also for future generations, we should have prepared children and students for this. There has been a compulsory school of faith and ethics, but the importance of environmental protection is still not taught by our children. Even in the new National Basics, there is no intention of doing so. We can't tax the plastic bag if we don't teach them what's wrong with it. In school age, it could be made natural in children to collect garbage selectively and to be conscious energy consumers. You didn't do that either, and it's gonna be harder to encourage in adulthood. You have destroyed the previous waste recovery system, and today the collection of selective waste in ten districts in Budapest is virtually paralyzed, thanks to you, the system is on the verge of bankruptcy at national level. And I could talk here for as long as it takes for our children, our grandchildren, your grandchildren and your children to live on this planet, and it's quite clear that you don't care. You have the national climate change strategy to break every single point systematically. You may think now that climate change only means that you will have to turn the climate into a stronger climate in public Audi. All countries in the world are facing a very serious change of national, social and health significance, who, in this way, is looking for a solution. We Hungarians will be unprepared for this change, because you will only cynically pull your shoulders against a problem when you are on the threshold. Honourable Members, We will pay a heavy price for our children, our grandchildren and your children and grandchildren. This will not be resolved by the fact that János Áder talks a little about environmental protection between the sanctioning of two Fidesz constitutional amendments; there is an immediate need for action here. It's too bad you're not partners in this. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-02-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga.
u2018-10-02-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The keynote speeches have already highlighted, but it has also been said here that it is obviously a question of combating climate change that requires decisions that often go beyond the general political logic, so that decisions do not generate direct and short-term benefits. Decisions are necessary that go beyond the logic of a four-year cycle. It is therefore often very difficult to give real content to a strategy on this subject. [[15.50]] I think we should have had such a strategy much sooner. It was also said that the Parliament had dealt with such a topic for the last time in 2008, but since it is already here, I think it would be very important, and this is the lesson of this debate, or my reaction to this is what practical things can be done in this case, what we can do, what we can do for the whole case, what we can do in Hungary, only a slice, because it obviously goes beyond our borders, but I have made proposals in recent years that were important in terms of environmental protection, the elimination of air pollution, and could be integrated into an action plan based on this strategy. I live in the valley of Sajó, there are about 400,000 people living here, I think, at that point in the country, in the area where the worst air pollution data have always been, especially during the winter period, I am thinking of January-February, in particular, when there is news about this. Obviously, the communication is going differently now, everyone knows that, but I do not think the solution is not to talk about this problem, because the situation is actually waiting for a solution. At the time when we look at the air pollution data, there was always a dark area, a dark spot on this particular map of Hungary, the valley of Sajó. As I looked at this strategy, I was very alarmed by the image that coincides with this, and air pollution data can almost be seen that the warming caused by climate change will also affect this area most in Hungary over the next 30 years, and the resulting increase in deaths will also affect this area. That is why I say that I do not think that some measures in this area can keep you waiting. It is shocking and outrageous that the people of Borsod County, especially the valley of Sajó, must live in such a quality of life. Numerous data on health have also shown that the number of deaths and health damage in this area is significantly high in relation to air pollution and environmental harm. I have put forward a number of proposals in recent years on how to combat this. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Oláh, rightly pointed out that, by the way, the European Union would provide an opportunity for a great deal of EU funding to enable households to start on a road that would make their operation more sustainable, reduce their emissions, and that municipalities could do a lot, such as in the case of brownfield rehabilitation. But let's look at building-energetic improvements. What I see is that, for example, in connection with the renovation of industrialised buildings, or in a simpler way, they are panel buildings, although only partially panel buildings have submitted tender opportunities have been very limited since 2010. At first, they almost disappeared, and then I have to say they came back in a very narrow form. By 2010 in Miskolc, one third of the buildings built with this technology were renovated. This may also mean insulation modernisation and, of course, heating modernisation. This has practically stopped since then. In such a rural city, two thirds of the buildings are still awaiting modernisation, and I think that in many cities in the country they are facing these problems. That would be a significant indication of the release. EU funds could be spent on this, as well as on the renovation of public institutions that have already been mentioned. With regard to heating upgrades, I see that the very poor air pollution data is increasingly backed up by the use of untimely heating and technologies in addition to vehicle traffic. Individual families should also be able to switch household appliances in a larger number, in particular with regard to boiler change, because this could also significantly reduce emissions and directly help to combat air pollution in the short term. We must say that the gas price is where it is and, let us say, market prices would allow for further reductions, bringing back countless consumers to gas consumers, which is also a cause of air pollution. A lot of people around here are heating up with what they can do in the winter. The gas is the most expensive, and by the way, the firewood obviously has a higher VAT key. We have repeatedly initiated here that we should reduce the VAT on firewood to 5%, but let me also say that I have received a lot of comments last winter about the lack of sufficient quantities of firewood. Obviously, this also reinforces the fact that they are heated with inadequate firewood, or as much as possible, especially by poor Hungarian citizens, and this also increases air pollution. Obviously, forestry should be prepared for this situation and once again: a comprehensive boiler exchange programme. Here are the European Union's resources, and I think there would be a lot of Hungarian families on this issue, and there would be partners in improving their own heating opportunities and modernising them. I would also refer to Lajos Oláh in connection with motor vehicle traffic, and I would like to confirm what he said. He talked about public transport in connection with Budapest, but the rural transport centres, the fleet of former Volán companies, are often under-critic. I say this by turning around Miskolc in Wheat Square almost every day, with incredibly poor air quality. There are very untimely buses when they can go, because there are also serious cancellations, but this would be a different agenda. So if the state has expectations, and rightly so, in relation to a climate change strategy, it should also be expected that the Hungarian state should use EU funds to replace all vehicles in public transport within a certain period of time, for those that do not have such emissions and do not cause such air pollution. This is also important, as is the fact that I have been missing this for a long time, in the surrounding states there is an example of a residential car exchange programme to be supported by the state. Some have a certain amount of bons, supporting the replacement of antiquity, outdated cars. I think that many Hungarian families would also take advantage of such an opportunity, and that would also make a huge difference in the specific case. Obviously, a lot of people have been talking to me about things that I would only briefly talk about, the use of solar energy, wind energy, or at least not hindering the transition to this, because we have heard about such cases, such as wind energy. It would also be helpful to amend legislation on this subject, but it is also that the state spends more on this than on other, let us say, luxury or visual investments. I would also consider it a good solution, since the carbon dioxide is bound by trees and forests, in order to get into serious forest plantings I know that there are such plans, and this is always discussed here by the Parliament as well, what ideas are there, and what is really the need for extensive forest planting and the preservation of the present ones. Finally, I would like to talk about one thing: it is very popular to create greenfield industrial areas. Everyone likes this, it's easier to attract large investors with greenery, but in the meantime, we often forget about the old abandoned industrial areas that are found in many places in the country. Unfortunately, with the collapse of heavy industry, many of these developed in Miskolc and Borsod counties. I suggest you put this type of brownfield rehabilitation on the agenda. I had a suggestion on this, and this one didn't have an audition either. In particular, with regard to my hometown, I would say that both the rehabilitation of the DAM in the brownfield and the steps taken to eliminate air pollution could be added, where appropriate in connection with Miskolc, to the points of the programme "Modern Cities". That would really make sense, it's important. I propose a review of this, and I think that other cities with Hungarian county rights would also reconsider their programme if they could see that this type of goal is also being given ground by the government. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2018-10-02-102	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-02-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have said anything to this debate if President János Áder hadn't called on Members of Parliament with such an infinite heightened and piety that we should not at least participate in and exacerbate our activity in the natural process of climate change. I had a feeling during the speech that he wasn't supposed to say that in Parliament, but at a Fidesz meeting at the Lendva Street headquarters. [[Peter Ungár applauds.]] In view of the fact that the representatives of opposition parties and the social groups behind the opposition parties have explicitly spoken in the last eight years against the activities which have been carried out under the Fidesz-KDNP government which have completely humiliated our environment. The activity of calling on the entire political and social community to act in the interest of climate protection, when the party community and government that gives it power are doing everything it can to make it difficult for it to do so. Don't worry, Congressmen, I'll give you my arguments. First of all, I would like to say that if Mónika Bartos was entrusted with this activity, which could protect the climate and our environment, I would be the calmest, because his personality and principles could prevail if the government had ever taken it seriously. His words are encouraging, but the problem is that the government led by his party family does not listen to them. It was shocking that an environmental product charge was introduced for solar panels when an awful amount of solar energy applications started everywhere in the world, just so that fossil and nuclear energy could be reduced, and when the various power plant activities with environmental renewable energy sources began to conquer, we were turning back at that time. How many times have we explained the problems in the field of land, and we have also raised them here in the House, which, during the sale of land, have created a large estate system that is particularly contaminated with chemicals, and have eliminated many bio-economys and model farms that would have served climate protection. It was shocking that the only department officially working on environmental protection at the administrative level remained organised during the Hungaricum Assessment Committee in the Ministry of Agriculture. They destroyed the National Institute for Environmental Affairs and carried out activities to boost the economy, where environmental protection and climate protection were completely out of the way. It is often heard from the Prime Minister that environmental protection is an obstacle to the recovery of the economy, and he sees environmental and climate protection as a toy for rich countries, which the Prime Minister himself has said many times. They carry out amazing wood cuttings for prestige investments that are completely unjustified and practically form concrete seas instead of vegetation. There are unjustified investments, such as processes in the City Park, where they are virtually unable to show in any way that they have replaced the cut-off trees or that they can maintain the oxygen-rich environment that they had before. The Fidesz government is not motivated by values, but by interests, and this can be fully extended to environmental protection and climate protection in our country. Unfortunately, there are over-buildings that are increasing by making construction rules easier, by increasing justified integration percentages, or, most harshly, throughout the system, to collect waste selectively, I do not know if my fellow Members know that only 40 percent of the waste collected selectively is recycled 40 percent of the waste! They never talk about it here, they never brag about it. And I've met the leaders of countless power plants over the past few years, and every time I ask what he's putting on his flag, his answer was that I want to use the garbage, and that the technological development of the power plants, let's focus on that, and not build hills and dumps out of 60% of the selective waste, let's use it. Interestingly, I do not like to report them here in this House. The budget has gradually reduced funds for environmental protection in recent years, which also speaks for itself, only to look at the books and the numbers, and to the extent that the construction rules have been mitigated so that the environmental impact has not only been completely undermined by smaller investments, but also by the construction of large settlements. We would like to ask that, if the President of the Republic has put forward the reason for this proposal with such increased attention and sensitivity, and asked politicians to provide support to implement this strategy from 17 to 30, so we ask with great respect that, for example, they strive not to engage in industrial chemical agricultural activities on large estates that have been allocated; they strongly and closely encourage action against CETA and TTIP, which virtually exclude that Hungarians do not eat GMO-contaminated foods, as this is an important part of the climate strategy; stop the full integration of the shore of Lake Balaton; and which is then a very powerful example of everyday life, that the masses of people around the government do not buy large-scale cars if they are able to spend tens of millions on it, but they take the lead to buy electric cars. This could also help us to implement this strategy in everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-02-104	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-10-02-105	Thank you very much for the floor. I was very pleased with Mrs Bartos and Mr Böröcz, it seemed as if we were all in agreement here, and there would be no room for debate, and it is so good that the environment is so important to everyone, but as my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said, it would be good to see what people in higher government functions are saying. What the Member referred to was the specific quote on the time of the inauguration of the second Orbán government that environmental protection is a left-wing issue, hindering economic development, and we cannot spend this on it, said the Prime Minister. It seems that at that time the Prime Minister was telling the truth, not those words that you have explained very long ago. In addition to observing that this is also a slogan in the government, that it is not about what they are saying, but about what they are doing, Minister Szijjártó's recent statement on the fact that he told automotive representatives that Hungary will lobby for the interests of the automotive industry so that the 2030 climate targets will not be strengthened. This is, therefore, the lobbying activity that the Hungarian Government is doing, despite the fact that we have been able to listen to this very long text of Mr Böröcz's paper on how important climate protection is, and Mrs Bartos has also said very nice words, but I think that these words are just empty words. Although Immanuel Kant's name was mentioned in this debate, to be correct, I would like to begin one more closely with the last public election program of Fidesz, which we are glad to have, however, that there is not always, but there was that. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And when there was, there was a sentence in it that Fidesz's aim was to create a national energy efficiency programme that would boost construction, to renovate 10 percent of the housing stock every year, to create 80,000 jobs and pay off in ten years, and even to solve our environmental commitments. [[16.10]] So this was a very nice point of programme, in 2010 many Hungarian people voted for Fidesz with this in mind. So my question is, I hope someone will respond to how much of this has been realized in the last nine years. Well, not that many. No, it didn't happen so much. But it's a very good thing, I don't understand that in 2010, if this was entered into their program, then why wasn't it implemented. Just to give you a statement of fact that this has not been achieved: Hungary is the last of the EU Member States to use an old word from my childhood in the energy efficiency modernisation of the housing stock. So the last Hungary in this area, despite the fact that you promised this in your election programme. To say one more fact, which shows that this promise has not been fulfilled, an average Hungarian household consumes 1.5 times as much energy as an Austrian household, 1.5 times as much. This means that in a country where wages are, say, still significantly lower than in Austria, people have to spend much more on heating in proportion to their salary, because heating is premature, polluting and expensive. One third of Hungary's population lives in energy poverty, especially in the regions that my fellow Member Varga talked about, and that is because they do not spend on heating modernisation and this. We are, in principle, opposed to the peaceful use of nuclear power and thus the Paks II. Many people say that it is good, good, good, but we need to heat it and what would be the alternative. Well, the alternative would be that Paks II has only an alternative: one of these alternatives would be the heating-up program you promised, which would reduce the Hungarian demand for heating by 40-50 percent; that's about what Paks II will do. to produce, so the two are perfectly balanced. Moreover, what is the most absurd part of this is that in 2014 Hungary would have received a 100 billion-dollar grant from the European Union for heating modernisation, and this was specifically fought by the government in Brussels. So the government fought specifically in Brussels to enable Hungary to spend enough resources to modernise heating. And at the end of this, I would like to say one more thing about this, that I have heard about renewable energy several times on the part of the pro-government, and I do not want to go into the debate on what constitutes renewable energy, but the fact that Hungary has committed a 14 per cent share of renewable energy by 2020 is also one of the lowest in the European Union. So, despite the beautiful words, despite these onionous statements, despite the incredible struggle of President President of the Republic with the words, this does not happen in actions. I very much hope that the next time János Áder says such beautiful things, it will have an impact on his old party, the community that allowed him to become President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-02-106	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK.
u2018-10-02-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reassure Péter Ungár, who is very upset about the renovations of the apartments, that things are not going well: please calm down, the XV. Tamás László was appointed Minister of the Government's panel program. After being appointed, I'm sure this problem will be completely resolved. We are talking about Tamás László, who has been convicted a few times by the election committee. But if it is not entirely so that Tamás László solves this problem, then we ask the government with great respect that the panel program that was shut down in 2011 which was tried to be restarted in 2014 and promised HUF 500 billion for the government panel program, which then died quietly, like most of these initiatives, actually be restarted. The source can be created, and hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for the opportunity to start. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-02-108	Thank you, Congressman Olah. Two minutes, Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2018-10-02-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It must be said that any commitment to or debate on climate policy objectives in this Parliament until the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 21 September made the statement or the statement that the German automotive industry's support is more important than the climate targets for the Hungarian State and that no climate policy objectives will be pursued in Brussels and I do not think they will support it at home either, which is contrary to the aims and growth trends of the German automotive industry. This actually means this, as the objectives of the automotive industry as a developing industry cannot possibly coincide with climate policy objectives, this would be rather nonsense, it means that the German economy, since the assembly plants of this German economy in Hungary exist more important to Hungary than the climate policy objectives, which is possible, since this is the government's right and opportunity to declare this. How can you reconcile it with the resolution proposal that is now in front of Parliament, and how do you want to represent and implement climate policy objectives at European Union level or at Hungarian level, if that is your position? Did Péter Szijjártó agree with János Áder when he made this statement, or had there been any consequences since then? Does the present representative of the government, Mr Secretary of State, agree with these statements, or denies them, and the government's position differs from what Peter Szijjártó said in Brussels? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-110	Thank you, Congressman Kepli. For two minutes, Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2018-10-02-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to make a few small comments, where there seems to be very serious lack of knowledge. First of all, Andrea Varga-Damm says that we have created large estates contaminated with chemicals. You must have missed the fact that last year, family farms have been strengthened. They had a problem with that before, and now it looks like they've suddenly found something new. It also says that by the reason of the Liget project, the green surface will be reduced when, on the basis of all kinds of permits and plans, it is clear that a much larger green surface will develop. The decision and decision on the GMO exemption was also adopted by the civil government and the civil Parliament, so if you are looking in this area, you are once again suffering from a serious lack of knowledge. And I can tell Péter Ungár that, in the case of energy efficiency, if he listened to what Mr President said, he said that clever and well-organised action could significantly reduce, for example, the population, by replacing household appliances with lower energy, more modern machines. Well, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that if you hadn't missed the fact that there was a history of cooling, washing machine change, boiler change in the population, you could apply for it, and it affected a lot of people. So I think it would be a good idea to remember these things, and it would be good to keep them in mind when they draw up slums and, in many cases, outspoken judgments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-112	Thank you, Congressman Pósan. The next speaker is Mr Barna Pál Sigmond, Fidesz.
u2018-10-02-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I didn't want to react, but given that Congressman Lajos Oláh made fun of Tamás László, I am obliged to protect my friend. Tamás László was in a very close race on Sunday, he congratulated the winner, who did not dare to start in party colors, but hid behind the independent disguise, and did not dare to take up his party affiliation. [[Noise, interruptions in DK's ranks.]] Tamás László was in a close competition, behind in hard work, and continues his activities as a ministerial commissioner, not as a ministerial commissioner. So I suggest that you look into the information more clearly; it is likely that you will look into other information as superficially as this. Perhaps that is why Paks has once again brought the cliches on which Minister and colleagues have repeatedly given the very professional, very well-founded arguments, but somehow there is concern about Paks here every hour. The same arguments, the same mantras, while countless times the Ministry refuted these baseless accusations. As with the Liget project, everyone's worried about trees right now. In recent times, if you've been there, you've seen how messy and garbage there is in the Liget. Maybe we should've gone and solved the cleaning. You could have gone to these activists, carved these trees, looked after them, picked up the trash. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] No one cares about him. There is the same hysteria that was associated with the construction of the National Theatre, which is related to the development of Budapest, whatever this government is building and has built a lot of things, there are always activists who fear for something. Interestingly, they hadn't thought of anything in the area for decades before. It was messy and careless everywhere, but if all of a sudden progress starts, then it's all wrong, and I quote his words, all of it is virtually wrong, everything from air pollution to investment. I don't know what country they live in; if this is so bad, then why did the voters think that Fidesz should continue to govern the country for its economic prosperity [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Because you didn't hear that line!]] to continue the economic prosperity that has marked Hungary in recent years? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Varga: I'll tell you what you did in East Hungary! Don't get cocky.]]
u2018-10-02-114	Thank you, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, within a 15-minute time frame. [[16.20]]
u2018-10-02-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I would like to convey the comments and suggestions of civil society organisations to the second national climate change strategy, so I would like to say this to you literally here. Greenpeace Hungary, the Air Working Group and the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors welcome the fact that the Parliament has negotiated the second national climate change strategy. Green civil society organisations have also been actively involved in the technical opinions of the first and second NÉS and consider it important to provide professional aspects for the current parliamentary debate. The merit of NÉS-2 is that its objectives are to combat climate change, both in terms of emission reduction and adaptation, without additional burden and burden on other resources. The adaptation chapter, i.e. the national adaptation strategy, is sufficiently thorough and consistent. Their proposal: it is recommended that the proposals of the newly published Hungarian research group investigating the Hungarian health impact of climate change be taken into account for 16 years. 2. At the same time, in the field of emission reduction, the part of the NÉS-2. Home Decarbonisation Roadmap will also take over the scenario, proposals and objectives of the 2011 outdated national energy strategy, mostly updated in primary energy consumption figures, and thus the proposals of NÉS-2 will be subject to earlier, weaker energy policy ambitions. For this reason, NÉS-2 is not sufficiently stimulating the transition to an energy-efficient renewable energy-based economy, i.e. the necessary structural shift, although more and more international and domestic expert studies are urging decision-makers. Their proposal: to clarify the relationship between NÉS-2 and the national energy strategy and the forthcoming national energy and climate plan. In line with the NECT, it should take into account the EU clean energy package for 2030 and plan the new EU budget for beyond 2020. Accordingly, the objectives of NÉS-2 2030, but with an outlook up to 2050, are also more ambitious in order to be able to stimulate the energy transition. Accordingly, NÉS-2 should clearly set out an absolute and significant reduction in Hungary's primary energy use and should also include measures that can be measured and scheduled in its action plan. 3. Emissions reduction is also an urgent task because the downward emission trend so far has reversed and emissions have started to increase since 2015 mainly due to increasing emissions from transport, industry and the agricultural sector. This also shows the need for more ambitious incentives to reduce emissions than at present. Hungary needs to decide whether to start structural change in the economy based on the cost-effective use of low-material and energy-intensive renewable energies in time, with the greatest potential for reducing emissions and reducing energy consumption in the energy, residential, transport and agricultural sectors, or to postpone the transition, which is already causing serious economic, social and environmental damage in the short term. The upper limit of the emissions reduction target of 52-85 per cent compared to 1990 levels in NÉS-2 is only around in line with the EU's long-term objectives and the Paris climate agreement. The new report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, published on 8 October, is expected to increase the ambition of EU and domestic policies. Their proposal: NÉS-2 should provide opportunities for emission reduction commitments by 2030 and 2050 in line with the recent results of climate science. 4. For the time being, NÉS-2 is only seemingly technologically neutral and, on the basis of the details, serving the outdated national energy strategy, the Paks expansion and the resuscitation of the coal industry are more conducive than increasing energy efficiency or the use of renewable energy sources. However, energy efficiency and the decarbonisation potential of renewable energies are higher than that of nuclear energy and significantly higher than that of carbon capture and storage, but they prefer these two technologies. There should be no money to be spent in the development and presentation of problematic technologies, and an ambitious climate strategy should not count on them. NÉS-2 itself recognises the significant risks associated with carbon capture and storage. Their proposal: NÉS-2 examines the carbon neutrality of energy sources on a full life cycle basis, based on the full life cycle analysis of energy-generating technology. The growing share of renewable energy that gradually replaces fossil and nuclear energy can be well integrated into energy systems. With demand-side response and small-scale local energy storage devices, smart grid systems and networking, decentralisation can be made safer, more stable and more flexible and quick to respond to the energy system, as many European examples show. 5. Out of the HUF 4000 billion planned for the expansion of Paks, all homes in Hungary could be made more energy-saving, and a significant part of them could be made available by means of smart funding schemes with renewable energies. This could lead to a much greater reduction in emissions than with the expansion of the nuclear power plant. Another disadvantage of the Paks investment is to increase our external dependence on energy, the huge cost of electricity would significantly increase the price of electricity, and it is essential that the final treatment of spent fuel is technically unsolved and that the risks of operation are also taken into account. According to polls, Paks II. The refusal to build more than 60 percent of our country. Development is therefore not justified from a social, economic and environmental point of view. Their proposal: NÉS-2 should also examine in detail an alternative scenario in which it does not take into account the expansion of Paks capacity. 6. The aspects of waste management are limited only in NÉS-2. Compared to the fact that the waste sector is the only one whose emissions remain at 1990 levels, the national decarbonisation roadmap of NÉS-2 rather details the reduction of emissions from the use of deponia gas, hardly describes its role in prevention, better selection, reuse and other emission reductions. Their proposal: NÉS-2 should focus on the direct and indirect climate and emission control aspects of prevention, reuse and recycling in its material. 7. Looking back over the last three decades, transport has been the only sector with almost continuous and large increases in CO2 emissions. If this trend continues, achieving the climate objectives set will be impossible. Their proposal: Detailed action plans to reduce CO2 emissions from transport should be drawn up without delay, taking into account the proposals of civil society organisations dealing with this issue. In conclusion, they welcome the fact that the strategic Hungarian NÉS-2 Parliamentary hearing is being held, but we cannot sit back on climate protection. [[16.30]] When reviewing NÉS-2 as soon as possible and at the latest, it is necessary to better align it with the recent results of climate science and with more ambitious international and EU policies and commitments that promote energy transition. These green organisations continue to be partners in this, counting on the openness of the portfolio and the government. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-02-116	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2018-10-02-117	Mr President, I would also like to add a few points to the debate as a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development. One is that, in its extent, this substance, which we are discussing, is almost inventive in the literature, it contains everything, so it is hardly possible to add more. The problem has been in its implementation, and its implementation will continue to be a problem, I think. I would like to mention three things. I heard from the source side that it was encouraging if it were to be translated into what the President of State told us here this morning, that last year he came in from the quota for HUF 20 billion and could be expected for HUF 70 billion in 2018. It is true that we are on the way to the end of the year to what this 70 billion was translated into in 2018, and that will probably be in some way in a list at a committee meeting. In any case, little has been said here today, along with many good thoughts and legitimate comments and criticisms about how, after all, some funding schedule for this programme will be created for these long years. If there were a separate environmental fund, let us say, always guaranteed for this type of tasks, but hidden everywhere, some source appears; I included the local, so also the financing of the environmental tasks of municipal environmental organisations and even the smaller ones, and I included some of the applications and promotions of the civil society organisations that have just been mentioned. Without the involvement of local society... there are a whole range of tasks here, which should not simply be carried out as a matter of money, but rather as a means of mobilising local society. CSOs could do that pretty well. In our case, personal experience, the XV. I was called before, Congressman, but let me just mention to you that Angéla Németh could not run as a party, because she is an out-of-party, literally an out-of-party party, and she is the president of that association, and she has only agreed to act as an association president as a civil society organisation. So you can't force him to join one of the parties. And the other one, you know, is that the electoral law forces these tiny opposition parties to join forces. There was a consensus behind him, and that was the only reason he started. He didn't go off secretly, not wrapped up, but simply said that he was willing to go as a civilian. He felt that after 21 years he had a chance, and as it turns out, yes. It's just a detour. So civil society organisations, our local government, for example, are listed in Annex XV. In the district, it provides resources to carry out various actions, and these actions are the most diverse areas of the strategy in this area, but we are only small and small in this. Perhaps we should allocate resources to these at government level. Of course, little, and that's the second thing I have to say, the environmental authority procedure itself, the environmental authority's licenses are seriously damaged. We have to say that earlier we had to fear an environmental authority more than, let's say, the authority of the police. Today, there is no authority that can take action. I'll give you just one example: moving underground garages and other lands of huge investment in downtown, that's gotta be taken somewhere. They drive it out into the outer districts, my district is affected. The landowners there rent it, and there are millions of cubic meters of land 6-8 meters above the border of the Rákos Creek. We couldn't stop it. There's no security service that can be paid, who can stop them. By the way, they almost show up with thugs. They carried the land there all night, and the police couldn't handle it. The environmental authority, when we turn it in, carried out a few hundred thousand cubic meters of estimated land in a few months, but in two weeks. These lands are not controlled, no one cares how much the polluted state of the environment increases, there's no need to examine anything, no need for permission to deposal it, no need to place it there. So, in such anarchic conditions, you can't do such a serious strategy. This has no control, authority, or organizer. The third, and I would like to conclude with this: I would like to mention that the water has been said in many good respects, I think. This is considered to be a good news. There was also a big debate in the Committee on Sustainable Development when we wanted to drill wells all over the place up to 80 meters in depth, and we didn't even need a permit or a plan, and even a well drill could have been any brazen thing. It is good that this solution does not come to pass, but when we discuss such a strategy, how can we first have such a serious situation that even the government may have supported, such a water robbery, when water as a treasure has to be taken care of as a natural gift. Although it has also been said today that, thanks to the river basins, our rivers are the river basins from almost all the border countries in the circle, but this water is storming, running away from the country, we cannot maintain it. This could also be part of the preservation of our values, such as the climate, the prevention of desertification, if we were to hold back some of the water. Yeah, well, that's what you'd be farming with. You can see that in Austria. That's how they do it. In many areas in Germany, the vast quality of water is not released in a similar way, but it is managed throughout the year. We can't manage that. This should also be invested and used with water retention, whether for agricultural production or for any other water-related technology. And, of course, a pretty important part of the water is the question of unclean waste water, which, by the way, is a significant step forward. After decades of delays, the waste water will be cleaned in an increasing number of settlements using continuous EU resources, so the world of digestive pits is becoming scarce. Although there is still a company in Budapest who does sniffing, not to mention rural cities. But this is also extremely important to ensure that these waters are sniffed in a controlled way, and that water is released into the receiving rivers by the construction of sewage treatment plants that do not pollute. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-02-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Péter Ungár, Congressman LMP, asks for a two-minute word.
u2018-10-02-119	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my fellow Member's factual errors regarding the Liget project. Here, for the first time, he explained that there are only people here who are opposed to all sorts of developments. That's not entirely true. What's happening here is that you're lying about the Liget project. They claim that the green surface is claimed at the same time, these two statements exist simultaneously from 60 to 65 percent, and the built-in from 5 to 7.5. Since the area is the same as how the two can be realized at the same time, it is a physical miracle in itself, but yet you can do it. [[16.40]] We also allow 86 percent of the Budapest public opinion polls to oppose your Liget project. We are saying that there may be a reason why they want to put more than 300,000 tons of concrete in this area. By the way, this also does not mean that the green surface will grow, so I do not understand exactly what you mean when you say that the green surface will grow or where the green surface will grow. You put this in this project with a trick, with the trick of legally removing the Liget project from the public park when it was here in the previous cycle. Thus, it is not factually true that the green surface will grow, and it is not true that there is currently 0.3 square meters of green surface for a city of Elizabeth. So you are reducing the green surface of one of Budapest's largest public parks, Budapest's lungs, while still doing so for those inner districts who went there the most, there is little other green area in Budapest where they could relax for free. So the thing is, it's a factual error, it's a lie, it's an increase in the green surface in the Liget project. This is not true, it is decreasing, and you are reducing the green surface elsewhere in Budapest, and that is because you want to build as many buildings as possible, so that those who usually build for you can build it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-02-120	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate [[For signal:]] I would have closed it, but in the meantime, I saw Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz.
u2018-10-02-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A brief sentence for my honourable fellow Member. I don't want to go into the debate, because the numbers, I think, are clear. Several professional and social debates were held by the government and the entrusted organization in connection with the City Park. Many people have said today that you are not likely to be affected by the joy of the creation when something is created in Budapest, but most of all, I am sorry for its expression as if I were hearing the sounds of envy with little professionalism. A closing sentence, I'm sure you know, is the Városligeti tree line, which is a beautiful line of trees, a beautiful street, which leads directly to the City Park, the fading program of this is the VII. In the district municipality of Erzsébetváros, the wooding and the planting of the trees were not voted by the representative of the LMP, only to know that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-122	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Peter Kaderjak.
u2018-10-02-123	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin by thanking the President of Hungary for his contribution to the National Climate Strategy Parliamentary Proposal and the Strategy and for all the speakers who have shared his views on this strategy, on this proposal, in the debate today. I personally consider climate change to be a national issue, because we will have to prove, not before each other, but before God and future generations, that we have done everything we can to reduce climate change impacts, reduce risks and leave behind a sustainable country for our children and grandchildren. I would like to refer to Minister's exposé, in which he used a metaphor of disease. It must be seen that the Earth is feverish today, its temperature is rising like a sick person, and as with the disease, climate change, it is so that good diagnosis, proper prevention and the choice of appropriate treatment and treatment will be critical in whether we can respond effectively to the challenges posed by climate change. For my part, I think, and I am convinced that the second version of the national climate strategy, the strategy before you, is the right direction for where to go, where to go, where to go, the Hungarian citizens, the local authorities, in order to ensure that the action plan that, if you accept it, we will develop on the basis of the strategy, and in the policies for which concrete recommendations are included in the strategies, all of this will guide Hungary's action in addressing the risks related to climate change, and perhaps it will give us an opportunity not to be ashamed of ourselves and our grandchildren when and after implementing the strategy. I would like to refer to the fact that many people have mentioned that every strategy is worth as much of it as it is being implemented. I hope that this will be a strategy that, as it sets the right direction, will lead to a proper outcome. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that there has been one, not one, many mistakes in the comments, but one mistake was that Hungary is late with the creation of its climate change strategy, in essence there is no climate change strategy. That's not true. Hungary has a national climate strategy. The first one approved by this Parliament in 2008 and is in force until 2025 is still in force. Fortunately, there has been such a strategy, but in the review that we have now carried out, and in which the strategy has been brought into line with the climate policy developments that have taken place since the creation and the commitments we have made in the Paris Agreement, we have seen that the current strategy is inadequate to provide modern responses to the challenges that have arisen since then. The motto of the national climate change strategy that we are currently putting on the table is to adapt to the inevitable and avoid avoiding it. It puts equal weight on countering, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and strengthening our adaptability to the effects of climate change. Our current climate strategy places a disproportionate weight on mitigation targets and their implementation and is much less, much weaker on adaptation. That is why I would like to point out that the three main pillars of the second national climate change strategy under discussion are the balance established on the basis of emissions reduction, adaptation to the effects of climate change and awareness-forming. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak briefly about these three pillars. While much has been said in the debate, there are some points where I would like to highlight and highlight the thinking behind the proposals of the new proposed national climate change strategy. [[16.50]] I'll start with the question of mitigation. How much to reduce Hungary's emissions of pollution, quite precisely its greenhouse gas emissions, because we are not discussing a general environmental strategy, we are discussing the climate strategy, the climate change strategy. I would like to share with you a number that might shed light on what Hungary can do by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to protect global climate protection. This number is 0.1. Hungary accounts for one tenth of global greenhouse gas emissions. It follows that Hungary will not be able to save the world from global climate change, even if it is interrupted, even if it imposes burdens on the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian consumers, which will endanger the economic growth results that have been achieved in recent years, without the hope of saving the world. This obviously doesn't make any sense. Of course, emission reduction is an essential and moral obligation, I stress this, but it is also our duty to find a balance between the costs of reducing emissions and the interests of economic growth when we develop, shape and implement our climate and climate change strategies. That is why, and this is a fundamental difference with several opposition speakers, we are not in favour of forced and above all emission reductions, because this would impose excessive burdens on Hungarian economic operators. We particularly consider it appropriate to reduce emissions in areas where we are making these efforts in the hope of additional economic and social benefits. What are these areas? Climate protection can not only help the climate in an interesting and important way, but also improve our energy security. By replacing our hydrocarbon imports with energy savings and renewable energy, we will improve our energy security and help climate protection. If we improve our energy independence through climate policy measures, it will bring additional benefits to the Hungarian people again. If we choose a solution for climate protection that helps Hungarian consumers to leave money in their pockets, because it reduces their overhead costs, not by reducing prices, but by saving energy, we have helped not only the climate, not only climate protection, but also Hungarian consumers. If we are looking for solutions to reduce emissions that help the Hungarian economy to play a leading role in innovative technological solutions in transport, e-mobility, electricity storage and longer, we have helped Hungarian economic growth at the same time and helped climate change at the same time. The intention of this package of proposals is specifically to keep these additional benefits in mind and focus on these areas in the future. Thus, renewable energy and nuclear energy support, energy efficiency, promotion of building energy programmes, e-mobility, development of electric transport, innovation are all areas that are closely linked to the recommendations for emission mitigation purposes of the climate change strategy. The other main area of the strategy, which is missing and lacking in the current strategy, is that we believe that this has been said to Hungary several times in the debate, as we are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, this is strengthening our capacity to adapt to the inevitable. It is sad to acknowledge this, but there is no doubt that more spiritual and material resources must be devoted than in the past to spending more resources, more knowledge, more financial resources to strengthen our capacity to adapt in our vulnerable areas in particular. What these fragile areas were said in the debate. This is our water management, our water supply, perhaps above all, the protection of our land, the protection of our forests, and the improvement of our health. We are extremely exposed and vulnerable here. The adoption of the strategy before you would pave the way for us to make significant progress in this area, much more concentrated than at present, by mobilising much greater resources. The third key point in strategic proposals is the field of awareness-forming, which may also sound like a often clichéd saying. This is where it was said that the government has not yet included in the National Basics Plan that our children need to get to know the issue of environmental protection and climate protection as soon as possible. I would like to point out that the former governments have not done so, unfortunately, so this government will now have to make up for this deficit. If you read carefully the proposals for the National Basic Training Plan, then also the Members will find out where this will be in future education. I don't know, and I wouldn't want to bypass the idea of responding to the points made in relation to the performance of the last eight years after the principles were presented. Of course, I am a little sorry that when we talk about such a national issue, there are many statements that devalue the results of Hungarian people, local governments, the government that we have actually achieved together in the field of climate protection. It has been said, but I would like to reiterate that emissions of greenhouse gases in Hungary have decreased by 34% compared to 1990 emissions. Even compared to 2010, when it came to rebuilding a collapsed economy, greenhouse gas emissions still decreased by 1.4 percent while restoring economic growth. When we talk about meeting our 2020 EU targets and comparing Hungary with other EU Member States, what do we see? Then we see that in sectors that are not subject to so-called quota trading, so-called agriculture, waste management, water management, Hungary could produce 10 percent more emissions by 2020 than in the reference period, since even in the European Union they understood that Hungary is in a catching-up phase, economic growth is also important in the country's development, so this regulation left Hungary with an additional 10 percent emission potential. What will be the actual delivery? Minus 30 percent. I think that this must be said and made public, because we underestimate ourselves by actually underestimating a country's efforts of this type with such results, on which we can build later, on which we can be proud. So it must be pointed out that, in these areas, Hungary does not actually perform badly, but is doing excellently. [[17.00]] Moreover, in this particular non-ETS, non-quota trading sector, we look forward to Hungary's performance among the best three countries in the European Union. There have been many criticisms about government performance in energy and renewable energy. As a criticism, it was only 14.65 percent renewable energy target that we will achieve. I would like to point out that in 2010 the production of renewable electricity in Hungary was probably zero in addition to the minimum production of hydropower in the Tiszalök power plant; it was not. When the government was formed in 2010, there was no other renewable electricity generation. These results should be estimated, and in particular that the Hungarian government is not, by the way, renewable electricity generation. In recent years, the focus has been on supporting it, because it is still quite expensive to see how true this was, as in recent years the costs of technologies such as photovoltaic solar power generation or wind power generation have started to fall, but instead it has used it to support renewable energy use for heating. Notice that there are local authorities in Hungary today, settlements where one hundred percent of local heat supply is based on renewable geothermal and biomass production. The city's heat supply in Pécs, but the whole county's electricity supply is based on biomass-based energy use. These are the results that we need to appreciate, and we can go on building on these results. The issue of photovoltaic solar-based electricity production has been raised several times, but only in the context that it was taxed by the government. I would like to point out that, as with all other pollutants, the government has, of course, imposed a product charge here, as with many other pollutants. But domestic-sized solar-based electricity generation is supported by the government's so-called net measurement if one consumes as much as it produces in a year. This system supports solar energy production of household size by billions, putting those who install solar panels on the roof in a very favourable position. I would also like to indicate that there is a very significant solar boom in Hungary. At the end of 2016, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office provided potential investors with 2 thousand megawatts of solar power licenses. Today, we see that in the coming years, it is a reality that 2-3 thousand megawatts of solar energy investments will be made in Hungary, which is a very, very significant amount, given that the installed power plant capacity in Hungary is around 9 thousand megawatts, so the installation of solar power capacity in the sector is expected to be a third of the installed capacity. The integration of this, the solution to this development, is yet to come. This is what we need to focus on so that the Hungarian electricity system can include this while maintaining security. There has been a lot of criticism about the fact that energy efficiency, building energy, can be a priority area for government activity. It was said that the government didn't really do anything in this area. I think it is in our best interest that our children not go to draft schools and kindergartens, go to public buildings when we go to the police or even go to prison, which will give us the right environment to live. So if you like, then the government has decided to start on itself, on your buildings, on your problem, to start solving building energy problems. He has made very significant improvements in this area. This can be experienced by anyone who has a school or kindergarten child and who has or actually lives in Hungarian settlements. The Hungarian population, Hungarian households, can now invest in energy efficiency with very low, zero percent close credit, as self-care and self-recreation are important in this area, but it should be stressed that in the future, the focus of strategic measures will also be on the population. I would like to mention here that it is no coincidence that the perhaps best-known government programme among Hungarian citizens is the warm home programme, which continuously helps Hungarian people to make use of these opportunities through the replacement of equipment, building energy renovations and other ways. It has been said that the government has destroyed the institutional system of climate protection, that we no longer have such institutions. I would like to point out that we have it, because in the Ministry of Agriculture, there is a secretary of state responsible for protecting the environment. The Ministry in which I work, which is the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, has just established the State Secretary responsible for integrated energy and climate policy, which I myself am managing. It is integrated and deals with energy and climate issues under one hat because the energy sector, as we have heard, makes up 70% of the emissions of the VIP greenhouse gas pollutant. So it is justified that, with climate and energy issues, the government should operate in an integrated, one place and plan this strategy together. It has also been said that the environmental or ombudsman has ceased. I would like to point out that today in Hungary there is a spokesperson to protect the interests of future generations, so I did not understand this precisely. In addition, the Government set up a National Adaptation Centre in 2012, which has been helping the government and municipalities to organise climate policy measures based on quality data and facts. Dear Parliament, I can't get past another point. It has been said on several occasions by opposition representatives that cheap energy is bad and hinders climate protection. I thought it was in all our interests that Hungarians should receive affordable energy services. In recent years, the government has made rather serious efforts both in the gas sector and in the electricity sector to provide affordable energy to Hungarian households. This policy is not worth giving up, but it should be continued, and Hungarian consumers should be helped in a differentiated way with smart solutions, energy efficiency and smart meters to regulate their energy use and manage this very important resource so that they can manage their own overhead costs. Perhaps one last comment on the revision of the national energy strategy, as it has been made in the opening expos, as well as in the subsequent speeches, and also in the paper presented by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, which has been sent to you by the green organisations dealing with climate protection, is that the current national energy strategy is not fully in line with the proposals of the national climate change strategy presented. Here I am indicating that the work on the revision of the national energy strategy has been launched. We will take this into account when Parliamentary Members decide to support this strategy. The criteria and recommendations of this strategy: our aim is to provide clean, smart and affordable energy services to Hungarian citizens, while at the same time supporting economic development and innovation in the new energy strategy. [[17.10]] At this point, I would just like to mention that this is precisely the reason why I am late for the inaugural meeting, which represents the establishment of the Energy Innovation Council. In the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, a council was formed at these moments to help the government by academic, industrial and stakeholders to exploit the opportunities that help climate protection, but also support economic growth. Dear Parliament, With all this, I believe that I have come to the end of my time, and I would just like to reiterate and repeat the motto that is the basic message of this amended national climate change strategy to be amended: to adapt to the inevitable and avoid avoiding it. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal, the proposal for a resolution, so that the government can, in cooperation with stakeholders, citizens and civil society organisations, do what it can to combat climate change and do this for future generations. Mr President, Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand... I repeat if someone has not memorized the name of the university [[Defiance.]] It consists of 12 syllables: The general debate of the bill on the publication of the agreement on the operation of the University of Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya in cooperation with the Tan Gate Buddhist College in Hungary until closure. The government referral is T/1657. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-10-02-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand on the publication of the agreement between the University of Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya on the operation of the University of Mahachulalongkornyavidyalaya in cooperation with the Tan Kapuja Buddhist College in Hungary, T/1657. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main elements of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. The bill concerns the publication of the Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University as a legal basis for the further operation in Hungary of a foreign higher education institution registered in the Kingdom of Thailand, i.e. the agreement on the promotion of the operation in principle in Hungary and the recognition of its binding scope. The agreement was signed on 14 June 2018 by Ambassador Peter James and Champatong Suph, Secretary General of the Office of the Higher Education Commission of the Kingdom of Thailand in Bangkok. The purpose of this bill is to announce the agreement. The conclusion of the agreement is justified by the examination carried out by the Education Office in 2016. A review of the functioning of higher education institutions has shown that several institutions operate irregularly in Hungary with regard to foreign higher education institutions. The study has shown that the 2011 CCIV on national higher education has been amended. Law. The law is 7. Paragraph (1) (a) states that, in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and the European Economic Area and having an educational activity in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State to support the operation of Hungary in principle. In accordance with this amendment, it has become necessary to conclude an international treaty with the Kingdom of Thailand. The negotiations on the establishment of the agreement began in September 2017 between the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Education of the Kingdom of Thailand. However, prior to its final establishment, the Thai party indicated that it wished to make significant changes to the text of the document, thus failing to sign it in October. In April 2018, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade informed our wallet that it had drawn up the text of the agreement with the Thai party. Following the conclusion of the negotiation process, the text of the agreement was submitted to the Prime Minister by the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Justice, who authorised the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister to finalise the text of the agreement. The agreement contained in the draft law lays down the legal status of the University in Thailand and the conditions for its operation in Hungary, such as legal status, activity, laws and regulations applied by the parties; and provides for the validity of the agreement and designates the bodies responsible for implementing the agreement, on the Hungarian part the Ministry of Human Resources. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. In accordance with paragraph 5 of the Agreement, the Parties undertake to conduct the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement by 15 November 2018. This Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the last written notification through diplomatic channels in which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. In line with the strategic document adopted in 2015, the agreement has a long-term impact on the competitiveness of Hungarian education and internationalisation by providing legal conditions for cooperation between Tan Kapuja Buddhist College and its Thai partner. There are no budgetary implications and no obligations in relation to the Agreement. The measures necessary for the implementation of the law will be provided by the Minister of Human Resources as Minister of Education. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-126	Thank you, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[17.20]]
u2018-10-02-127	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The excellent cultural and educational relations between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand were outstanding in the two thousand years, already in 2003 the Hungarian State Opera Company participated in the international dance and music festival in Bangkok with several successful performances. It took place in 2011 Béla Bartók. The premiere of the Bluebeard's Castle in Thailand. Another important cultural event is the presentation of the Hungarian film "The White God," which took place on 11 March 2017 in the Thai knowledge park. But not only are relationships excellent in music. In cooperation with Rotary Club in cooperation with the AFS study exchange program, Hungarian and Thai high school students are given the opportunity to participate in the exchange programmes, thanks to which about 30-35 Thai students can travel to Hungary for one year each year. Thanks to the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship granted by the Hungarian Government, students in Thailand can apply for higher education studies in Hungary, which have been available since 2018. Several Hungarian universities, such as Corvinus, Kodolányi János College or Budapest Economic College, maintain excellent relations with Thai higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, which refers to cooperation between MCU and Tan Kapuja Buddhist College in Hungary, serves to maintain and further expand both educational and scientific cooperation between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand. This Agreement regulates points such as mutual recognition of diplomas or the designation of a contact point for supporting issues relating to educational activity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-128	Thank you, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-129	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor, and first of all, I would like to pay tribute to both Mr President and Mr Secretary of State for starting the task of saying the name of this university. I would not try, like the previous speaker, but as the lead speaker of Jobbik, I would like to say that I am very pleased with Mr Secretary of State's detailed report on the preparation of the treaty, and, of course, we can support this treaty on behalf of the Jobbik faction. I would like to add one point to the whole issue, since the fact that internationalisation plays a prominent role in Hungarian higher education in terms of the approved strategy, we fully agree on this. This is obviously also extremely important, as the number of Hungarian students has declined rapidly in recent years and in the near future as a trend. So if we were to enter into the debate with the Secretary of State about the structure of Hungarian higher education and the proportion of students and the structure of the individual institutions, then I think that this internationalisation will also have an outstanding and key role to play in the conduct of this debate. I would like to add just one thought to this question in a slightly broader sense: I would like to comment very briefly on the accreditation of international courses, referring to the experience of my previous life, when I myself, as a university leader, have tried quite a lot to do with the possibility of either double degrees or other degrees going through various bureaucracies, and I have sometimes tried to be a good bureaucrat as a university leader, but sometimes in a flexible way, to bear scientific and educational cooperation in my heart. With great respect, too, I would just like to give my support to the higher education government, and I would like to pay tribute to the fact that, since the Bologna process, this is still an issue where individual national accreditation actors still play a major role, and sometimes it is very difficult to bring the two parties together as this seems to have been done in good preparation. Thank you very much for this House's attention and we will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-130	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, notary, DK.
u2018-10-02-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Rector, Secretary of State, The fact is that, of course, we ourselves are a great supporter of Hungarian-Thai cultural relations and we appreciate the operation of the Tan Gate College, but we find it difficult to overlook that this proposal is not, of course, about the need for this proposal, not because these cultural relations are now at a sudden level, but because, my fellow Members, the government wanted to have fun with the CEU. Therefore, a law was put in place with the sole purpose of bringing CEU to an end, as far as possible, to drive it away. But in this standardization, there were other institutions involved, which would also have to jump on the otherwise absurd and unnecessary conditions that you have imposed, kicking apart an otherwise functioning, existing system. It is difficult to overlook the fact that, while this contract has actually arrived here, that, that it is not, somehow the Treaty on the functioning of the CEU cannot arrive here before the National Assembly, while we know that it is ready, but the government cannot sign it, can not get here. They sent a delegation to New York to count the red bricks one by one on the wall of the host university to see if they could hold higher education in America, but they still won't get the contract. Obviously, and there's no doubt about that, because your intention is not to settle these relationships, it's not to settle down. And behind this there are not professional reasons, but purely political reasons. So what we can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that, of course, there is no problem with this proposal, but it is unworthy of what brought it here, and it is unworthy of how you treat international higher education institutions, by the way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-02-132	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató, notary. I now give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2018-10-02-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Rector. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time we have actually been here in plenary to discuss the ratification and entry into law of an international agreement that is required by the amendment of the national higher education law for certain types of institutions. I can start with the same thing as I said the first time, for example, in the contract with the State of Maryland, that I am glad, in the end, of such contracts, just as it was the first time that Maryland and I had an international agreement. There are not many with Thailand, some with Thailand at least, for example, the 1990 agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. And just like Maryland, obviously Thailand is a beautiful country, many Hungarian tourists go there; less developed than Maryland. So I could talk about it for a long time, but the problem is that we're not really talking about it. This is my fellow Member, Gergely Arató, who has already begun to push me to see what's behind this. But I'm telling you, this contract alone is not a problem. In addition, Tan Kapuja College is a small but important element of Hungarian higher education, but they teach Buddhist teachings, and they teach special, rare languages, for example, they rarely speak Sanskrit in Hungary. On the other hand, this particular university would like to join my fellow Fidesz lead speaker, and I also Googled that they would use it as an abbreviation for MCU themselves, because they probably can't say it either, so let's use this, this university called MCU in the Thai university ranking, I looked at it on purpose, its first third is somewhere near the end. So that means he's one of the good Thai universities. In addition, in terms of years, there is also a connection to Hungarian history, because education started at this university in 1896; it was during the Hungarian millennium. So in that sense, I'm telling you, it's okay. The problem is with the history, because, of course, it is because of the fact that when Mr Rector was not a secretary of state for these international agreements, it was quite obvious that they were trying to shoot around the CEU. A set of conditions has been established so that CEU will not be able to meet it at the end. The rector knows that I would also quote the rector, which he said as a rector and president of the Rector's Conference: is it good that CEU was established in Hungary 25 years ago? Yeah. Has CEU generated value in the last 25 years? Yeah. Do we want the university to stay in Hungary? Yeah. Do we want everyone in Hungary to comply with the laws? Yeah. [[17 .30]] He also told us what we all know, of course, who worked in higher education, and we are working, that this whole issue has really hurt Hungarian higher education, what the rector has always said before, that we are going to an international conference, that is the first question: what do you have? And then, of course, it's very difficult to get foreign colleagues to come to Hungary, let's say to teach, because if that's the news, then there's something wrong there. Of course, the Rector also clearly knows that what he said was not entirely true when he mentioned that these agreements had to be established and that the law on higher education had to be amended at the time because they were irregularities. This is certainly not true with regard to the CEU, but it is not true with the others either. For example, if we look at the studies against CEU or concerning CEU, administrative and administrative deficiencies have actually been identified, which, in addition, are aware of the operational structure of Hungarian higher education institutions, and in any case, as these are not large deficiencies, they are administrative deficiencies. So it wasn't, for example, like, at the University of Pécs, that he told a complete doctoral school that he was not accredited because he didn't meet the requirement in the review, for example, the Doctoral School of Earth Sciences was unfortunately the first round, but fortunately, they were given the opportunity, quite rightly, to make up for the shortcomings, and the Doctoral School of Earth Sciences continues to work. For example, my topic manager, Zoltán Dövényi, was there at his birthday event, and the rector worked there, and he is still there to this day, and they are doing this doctoral program. For the sake of historical loyalty, I went to the ELTE Doctoral School of Earth Sciences, only my thesis supervisor was Zoltán Dövényi. The point is, therefore, that it is not entirely true that this was necessary here because of the irregularities, because there were very few such irregularities. Then, of course, your predecessors said that the CEU enjoys privileges. Well, there isn't a session here in Parliament where we don't change the law on higher education because of the University of Public Service, constantly, really, now I don't know what privileges the NKE gets when it receives privileges in Hungary, the University of Public Service. So this, too, I think, is in place. The other thing is that your predecessors have often told me and I'm sorry to tell you, but you are the Secretary of State, so from now on, the responsibility is clearly yours, your predecessors have often said that it is fraud, it has also been said literally, it is a fraud that they give both Hungarian and English and American degrees at the same time, so it is an English degree. The thing is, interestingly, when it comes to, say, the daughter of Viktor Orbán and the child of Mr Áder, who went to the same institution in Switzerland and London, it is interesting that this does not arise. So, of course, this was a normal, standard procedure, so it is only clear that it is not a fraud, that it works this way, and that is how the CEU worked before. Obviously, the rector also knows very well that it is a very high-quality university. Of course, it does not usually appear on university rankings that evaluate universities where the entire training cycle is present, because there is no BA, BSc on the CEU, so there is no initial training, from then on he is the specialist, so the CEU usually appears on such scientific lists, there is a very good one, we have to acknowledge that. In addition, he has an outstanding prestige not only from an educational point of view internationally and thus increases the prestige of Hungarian higher education, we know that well, but also from a research point of view. This is the year in which the MTA presented its 2015-16 report on the general state of Hungarian scientific life and the activities of MTA in 2015-16, and it is also literally described that Hungary has been able to bring 40 percent of these applications to Hungary, thanks to the two institutions: the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the CEU. Now, if we are going to force the CEU to leave, because if they do not conclude the same contract with him, then he will pack up and he will go to Vienna, and this has been clearly stated, then the quality of Hungarian higher education will deteriorate, his prestige will deteriorate, we will lose a lot. So it is of Hungarian national interest to stay here, and that is why it is important that the exact same contract, which we have confirmed from several places, was drawn up literally, the Hungarian party had a problem with a debate in order to bring the date of ratification to a later date, but it was also agreed when László Palkovics and Krisztián Altusz were there. In the spring, according to our confirmed information from several places, no objections were made, and they admitted that it was okay. I have in my hand, among other things, the letter from the New York State Education Office written by Director Leslie E. Templeman to Miklós Kásler, Kristóf Altusz, on June 20, 2018, I may have just said that I apologize to Krisztián! , Zoltán Gloviczki and Renata Vanó certify that he is engaged in educational activities in the state of CEU New York. Then, for sure, on 24 August 2018, on 24 August 2018 he sent another letter to you, Miklós Kásler and Gergely Gulyás, László Palkovics and Zita Horváth to complete his activities with such a certification program. So you meet all the conditions, you're under discussion, you should bring this proposal in front of this House in the same way. And the reason I'm talking about this for a long time, and I've kept addressing what I have to say to you, is because I think you've become Secretary of State, you know exactly what the context of this is, why this is necessary. I'd like you to make sure that the contract that's been drawn up gets in exactly the same way. The poor governor of New York has already sent you information on every communication channel in the world that's all right, we can sign it when you sign it, just pick up the phone, respond by e-mail, or do something, bring it in. And once again, this is important because if we don't do this, they're gonna force the CEU to leave. And I'd just like to draw attention to a parallel. At the time it was not you, but Mr.Orbán's great friend, Comrade Putin, who came to the University of St. Petersburg with the same logic, which also worked in such a foundational structure, it works, University of Europe, I think it is his name if we translate it into Hungarian. They couldn't work there for two years. Interestingly, they have now made it there, too, by the Russian authorities, that it is better to let it work, and from September this year he was allowed to continue training. So not so much to you, but to Viktor Orbán, who is not here, that, by the way, if his big buddy was willing to admit that this was a bad decision, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then maybe he can do this...
u2018-10-02-134	Congressman, would you be so kind as to turn to the bill, if I may?
u2018-10-02-135	It's part of the bill. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Because it's the exact same trigger for both of them. The only reason we are talking about this treaty is because it has been included in the National Higher Education Act because of the CEU. It's real. You can't deny that. That's why. By the way, I have come to the end of my speech, in this sense I am sure that I will not disturb the President's peace of mind any longer, but I would strongly ask the Rector, not the Secretary of State, then as a rector, as the former President of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, to proceed with the same treaty in connection with the CEU. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-02-136	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. My peace of mind doesn't bother me. I'm more concerned with calling you an LMP congressman, but in the meantime, the paper came in that you're an independent congressman. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán for two minutes. [[17.40]]
u2018-10-02-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just wanted to say what Mr President has already done, in part, that we have a concrete bill ahead of us, and that is what we should be talking about. The fact that everything on the left comes to mind about CEU is not my fault, it could be some serious disease. But one thing is certain, there is a law, there is a procedural order in the context of the law, and in this respect, the proposal is all the same, and I don't even understand where we are wandering around the world. What I see is that other foreign universities have concluded such contracts with Hungary during the summer, we know about it. So I think, where things go well, they can run through. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-02-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'd react very briefly, too. The draft legislation before us is an agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand on cooperation between a university in the Kingdom of Thailand and a university in Hungary. Both universities operate legally in their own country, and both universities legally issue certificates in their own country. In my opinion, Hungarian universities are bad with CEU, because it is not fair that while Hungarian universities issue a Hungarian degree, CEU also issues a Hungarian and an American degree at the same time. In this agreement, we are talking about the cooperation of a university in the Kingdom of Thailand and a university in Hungary, and, in addition, the two separate degrees are recognised, where appropriate, by the two countries. So this proposal definitely enriches the Hungarian university community. I am also sorry that you remember everything about the CEU, and I have been waiting for the Liget to turn up, perhaps even to talk about Paks, as has been said in several debates this day. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs for two minutes.
u2018-10-02-141	In such a live, the exit from the faction has not yet been transmitted. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just one more time to clarify. CEU works legally, doesn't cheat, doesn't steal, doesn't fake, doesn't cheat. So again, Viktor Orbán's child, János Áder's child, went to the same institution in Switzerland and the UK. In the same way, it's a double-graduating institution. So they went to an unfair institution, too? Then tell your boss to get their degrees back. So let's not say anything that isn't true. Yes, CEU is an important part of Hungarian higher education, it raises our prestige. For me, as an ELTE instructor, it gives me an extra presto that there is such an institution within the framework of Hungarian higher education. Believe me, it's true. Of course, such things can be said that this comes to mind, but I will say it once more: we need such contracts because you have prescribed them, completely unnecessary. And what Congressman Posán says is that whoever wants can settle down is not up to the CEU. The thing is, there are two states to agree on. In this case, the state of New York and the Hungarian government. The Hungarian government does not want to agree or sign the text. It's hard to say that this is CEU's fault, isn't it? So let's not do this anymore. [[Dr. László Pósán's intervention:]] Tell the governor in New York he'll give it to me, believe me. Ask him for it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-02-142	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Before the Group of the May Other Political Group objects, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that representatives of Bernadett Szél and Szabó Szabolcs informed the Speaker that they have resigned from the May Other Political Group today at 2:28 p.m. This means that these two Members will present their position as independent representatives for the remainder of the sitting. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else has any comments. [[No signal.]] I don't see that. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. If you wish to speak to him, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-02-143	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive reaction to the proposal in particular. I can see that there is no disagreement on the concrete proposal. In other matters, of course, yes, we are different in many ways, certainly in one thing: I am not a politician. I could be quite disadvantaged in political debates, so I wouldn't be involved in such political polarities. As a result of my previous position on the CEU, I had a very strong opinion. My opinion hasn't changed, my situation has. However, everyone accepts that I have bosses as State Secretary, that there is a political view that I have, let alone that it is appropriate, it is mandatory to be loyal. In the CEU case, I think that what Prime Minister said in an interview should not be a quick decision, but a good decision. There's nothing else I can tell you about that. I want to thank everyone for their positive attitude and activity. Mr President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-144	Thank you, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the publication of the Convention on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters until its closure. The government referral is T/1656. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-10-02-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The experience of natural disasters shows that it is sometimes not enough to overcome the consequences of natural disasters to have a small area, to have a country's efforts, but also to have an international cooperation. Disasters cannot be predicted; protection, prevention and disaster management are a great burden. This is why it is a very useful method when several states cooperate with each other to address the consequences of disasters. This is justified in the case of Hungary as well as in the case of Hungary, since we have a disaster management agreement with neighbouring countries, but also with Germany, Latvia and Macedonia. This proposal sets the link between Hungary and Moldova on a new basis. The adopted text was signed by the two parties on 20 September 2017 at the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York. Under the Convention, the Contracting Parties shall cooperate with their disaster management authorities to prevent natural and man-made disasters and to mitigate the consequences of disasters and to provide mutual assistance in the event of disasters. The Convention defines the forms of cooperation, designates the competent authorities and lays down the procedural rules to be followed in the event of assistance. Dear Parliament, I ask the Parliament to support this treaty. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2018-10-02-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-02-147	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, there are experts who believe that global warming cannot be stopped. In view of this, as has been said several times throughout the day, we should be prepared to increase the number of natural disasters each year, against which we can act separately and in many cases through international cooperation. This is also the purpose of the Hungarian-Moldova Convention before us, which aims not only to prevent and manage disasters, but also to further strengthen existing good relations between the two countries. The cooperation detailed in the bill includes the management of disasters, the exchange of information, common practices, the exchange of experience and the organisation of various conferences and study trips. It facilitates border crossing of relief teams to be sent to another country, imports of ambulances, while respecting the legislation of that country. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Of course, there is no 100% security, but this convention makes a major contribution to bringing us one step closer to the effective prevention of natural disasters, the combined management and remedy of the consequences of the tragedies that have already occurred. In the light of the foregoing, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the publication of the Convention. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-02-148	Thank you, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-02-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, All international conventions that can create our international embedment, our reputation in the world are welcome, and, of course, the Jobbik Group will vote for this convention. Allow me a few thoughts first. On 20 September 2017, we signed this agreement with the Republic of Moldova at the then UN General Assembly in New York, and I would only ask the competent ministry with great respect to submit it to the House not more than a year later, so that we can talk about this issue, because 20 September 2017 was more than a year and five days before it was submitted. So I believe that once such an important treaty has been set, it is highly unlikely that the aim was to talk about it so long in this House. After Soviet sovereignty, the Republic of Moldova was established in 1991, with which our international cooperation is so good that it is not the first convention to be ratified in this House even in this session. It is likely that this type of common historical past and this kind of geopolitical fate community will also indicate that our bilateral relations on as many topics as possible will develop and flourish. This convention was born in the course of disaster management, in order to prevent and eliminate disasters, but I consider it to be a number of examples in the last 50-60 years, so that wherever there is any disaster in the world, all countries in the world are trying in some way to help the country or the region in question. In this way, I myself consider that, in fact, these relations are created not by the conventions, but by solidarity. Hungary signed agreements with Serbia, Romania, Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Greece, Croatia, Poland, Germany, Russia, Turkey and France with similar content between 1996 and 2013, and from 1 January 2003 we joined the EU civil protection system. This shows that Hungary's every effort is to be able to act effectively in order to prevent possible such incidents, disasters, to safeguard the security of citizens living in the countries or regions in question and to prevent further tragedies. My Fidesz fellow Member before me has already described in detail the common points, the tasks assigned by the Convention to the two countries. This is prevention, the acquisition of information, the joint investigation, the exploration of the causes of disasters, of course common practices, the exchange of experience, of course, and the organisation and participation of international conferences that are needed and organised on this subject. It is very important for us, the Jobbik Hungary Movement, to support all the activities of the government that strengthen our positive qualities, our country's willingness and ability to cooperate internationally on the international stage. So our vote will be a vote in favour, and we ask the Ministry of the Interior, which has been tasked under this Convention, that, if such agreements are to be concluded, you may complete them with the widest possible content in your work. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-02-150	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, points out that he does not wish to use the possibility of closing. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information until its closure. The government referral is T/1654. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-10-02-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The conclusion of the Convention will contribute to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information in 2010, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. Accordingly, our country has so far adopted a legal agreement on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with 23 governments. This includes Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Italy, the Kingdom of Spain or the Kingdom of Sweden. For several countries, negotiations on similar conventions have already been concluded and the final text of the conventions is being established. The Agreement was signed by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on 23 August 2018 in Budapest. The Convention aims primarily to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between countries. In this context, security cooperation between the Parties shall be regulated and designated by the competent authorities. They shall provide for the compatibility of each classification level with each other and the procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement currently under discussion meets the interests of Hungary and strengthens cooperation between countries in criminal matters. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill and to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-02-152	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-02-153	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is intended to replace a convention that has already been concluded. On 25 October 1995, the Hungarian and German governments signed a similar agreement on the mutual protection of classified information. This was made available to XXXV in 1996. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. [[18.00]] The next stop was December 14, 2009, when the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV. a law which has redoed the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. The need for this new convention is therefore justified by the legislative changes that have developed in the years since then. It is important to stress that the new Convention does not change the former principle, so that they will continue to apply, such as the adopted principle that requires the parties to grant equivalent protection to the data provided under the Convention, or that the transferring Party retains the right to dispose of the data provided. Similar agreements, as Mr Secretary of State has said, have already been concluded with several countries in Hungary. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the Convention seeks to protect classified information exchanged in cooperation between the two countries and the public bodies concerned. It shall also record further important facts, such as the competent authorities and the procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the treaty. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-154	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-02-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the rapporteur and my fellow Member of the Fidesz, on 25 October 1995 a convention was born; at that time it was called classified information, the convention was concluded in relation to them, while the national and international legislative environment has changed, and now we have the Convention on the Protection of classified information. As we have heard, many countries, European Union countries, have already concluded these conventions on a similar subject, but it was a pleasure to see that this is a much more detailed, more elaborate draft legislation that lies before us. However, I would like to ask questions about two articles. One of them is Article 8 which contains reproduction; the documents containing such classified information are not included in the rules of procedure for reproduction of those documents, it is not clear from this Convention which records and how it records, how it registers copies, and is even formulated in the Convention so that they can duplicate such documents in the necessary copies, and can do so during the scope of the Convention. So I think that it would have been good to develop a more specific regulation with the other party and thus clarify the convention. The other is Article 13, where the dispute is discussed in the Convention, where it says that in all cases the parties agree on a negotiated basis, if any dispute exists between them, and completely exclude both national and international courts, and even third parties may not be involved in this dispute. I'd like to ask you a hypothetical case: there's an accidental leak of classified information, this treaty is violated by either party, resulting in, say, a billion-forint damage event. What's in the agreement is that the parties will settle this on a negotiated basis. What if this doesn't work? This agreement can be terminated by six months. The question is what happens after six months. Who's gonna pay for those damages? What will happen to these damages if they can only enforce them through trial? These two points in this article, which I think would have needed clarification, of course the Group of Jobbik will support the signing of this convention, but I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that, if there is another such case, he would be pleased to shape these points during the negotiations in such a way that the Government of Hungary and our Hungarian nation will have the best possible agreements during the signing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-156	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2018-10-02-157	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to add a very brief question to this perhaps not even a debate, because I think it is very easy to achieve a broad consensus in support of such a convention, and because the participation of dozens of countries proves that this is justified, the question arises as to whether this whole process can be further developed. We have discussed this with an expert, and we have come to the conclusion that the Government of Hungary has not yet found an answer to a challenge, and this is the emergence of various new forms of terrorism, including the effects of the migration spiral that you are fighting against in the field of rhetoric, and I am in favour of this fight, but let us say, when, at the height of 2015, at this level of State Secretary, there was a denial of the existence of migratory pressure in Hungary, this is the time when the savages who attacked motorists in Debrecen and attacked civilians and innocent people were warned at the time that the activities of various international exchange networks could support this process. Unfortunately, the procedure was canceled. Now my question is short and simple: is there a kind of lex Ahmed in Fidesz's witch kitchens in terms of the depth of the exchange of databases, data masses that are about potential, potential offenders, terrorists, their movements within European space? After all, we see that the rapist, I would not call him a gentleman, so the man who did these acts was politely knocked, and he was allowed to enter Hungary, so this is supposed to be one of the Fidesz-KDNP's protectors; if you have other information, share it with us, that is our request. But is there anything in your vision in particular as to how data and risk factors on potentially already received criminals can be shared with the authorities of other countries under the same conventions, how can this be managed in the European space, and what action plan does Hungary have on this issue? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-158	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your support. In connection with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech, I can add that, of course, the Hungarian law enforcement agencies and the European law enforcement agencies, but not only European law enforcement agencies, but obviously all relevant law enforcement bodies, are in line with international relations. When a person arrives in Hungary, the necessary qualifications and inspections will be carried out by the authorities, and if, while staying here, he commits a crime or any act incompatible with the interests of Hungary or the interests of the European Union, this exchange of data will continue and take place in the same normal manner. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-02-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Péter Ungár was the first person to apply for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Deaf's World Day." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Recently, on 23 September, the World Deaf Day was the International Day, which was officially the day of the sign language introduced by the UN. I have to say that about 70,000 Hungarians are deaf or hearing, so it is very important to represent their interests in this House, and I want to talk about a particular problem that affects them, which is not a general problem, which is part of problems such as how the national health system supports hearing aids or what children's education is, but another problem, the problem of access to culture. The government has taken a step which we consider to be fundamentally eligible for other reasons, and that is to make subtitle films easier and more widely available in television and cinemas because of the low level of foreign language knowledge. This is a good thing for foreign language knowledge, but it is also a good thing because it makes it much easier for deaf people and hearing people to have access to culture. However, there is still much to be done in this area in the area of cultural access. This does not apply to theatres, but in theatres it would be very important for deaf people and hearers to allow them to go to theatre with either a sign language translation or subtitles; in public facilities where this is possible, in most places where subtitles are possible, for foreign performances anyway. [[18.10]] In addition, although the 2010 CLXXXV. The section of the Act on media services and mass communication requires broadcasters to subscribe to television programmes, which do not apply to thematic or educational channels or to channels that broadcast from non-Hungarian headquarters. Thus, to this day, there are many television shows that are not marked for deaf people and hearers. In addition, it should be added that one of the most important parts of access to culture is that there should be subtitles in cinemas even when it comes to Hungarian films. At least all urban cinemas with county rights should be given such lectures; people who are not deaf or hearers would not be disturbed, and those people would be given the opportunity to have fun, to relax or to have access to culture. So to sum up: although we agree that the subtitles will be better distributed to the government, we would like this to be made much more accessible in theatres and cinemas, taking into account this 70,000 Hungarian citizens, and closing the two legislative loopholes mentioned above, so that national culture is accessible to everyone. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-02-162	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-10-02-163	Mr President, Dear House, The House may have gotten used to sharing further details on the Calvary for Foreign Currency Credit Damages in my post-scheduled series, but fortunately, sometimes I can bring good news and positive news. This is also today, when we are invited to an eviction event at 9 a.m.; although I would like to stress that Jobbik clearly does not want to prevent such events by physical violence and not by meaningful intervention in processes, but by checking the legality of the processes, by assigning lawyers, experts who are able to assess whether the processes started there are legitimate or not, or by trying to help the victims, whether by purchasing a durable food or an electric boiler, or by trying to level their way in a form that is meaningful help to them, as these people fall out of order on the social services network. I'd like to tell you that the victim who was supposed to be evicted today is an ex-chopper driver. In his 50s, he was a man in his prime who had a single quotation mark, and he had a stroke. Because of this stroke, he was unable to do his job, unable to repay the debt, and with a year of hard fighting, this man recovered. This man once again got a job, became a productive member of society, a tax-paying citizen. All that happened was that he asked for a reschedule to cover his absence. He asked to settle the debt he wanted to settle in 60 or 100 months. His calvary continued, as during his hospital stay he was attacked by a species of carnivorous bacteria. After using an industrial amount of antibiotics, fortunately, he got rid of this problem, but on the whole, a year ago, he went to bring his own life back from this hellish situation. I would also like to say that although in his current situation the Óbuda Family Helper's stand was, in my opinion, exemplary, so we also share the words of praise, not only the criticisms, but I also have to say that from the social safety net, these people who experience typical everyday life situations fall out of order, they have nowhere to turn. In this respect, they cannot experience exactly the sense of security that the current government is campaigning with in Hungary. The government has every right to see that people need a sense of security, but not only against migration, but also in such typical situations of life, when people suffer health damage, yet they fight, they come back, they get a job, they want to work, they want to prevail. I believe that a social care system must be prepared for such situations, since it is a long-term stake. If this man cannot return to the productive sphere, if this man is evicted, a citizen who needs social transfers for years, if any, decades will be placed in this very broad social group. If, on the other hand, he receives the temporary assistance that I believe he deserves, he can also help his taxpayer, a constructive member of society in this sense, to help our fellow countrymen to live an active life. I must say, fortunately, the stand of Jobbik was not necessary in any way in this case, although at the planned time of eviction, we appeared there, precisely because we had been fortunate enough to overtake its executives to call off the execution event by court, which the overzealous executor wanted to do. We are also prepared for such cases, which is why we arrive at calls and appear at such locations. At the same time, I must say that this would not be the task of opposition representatives. I would like to capacitate my fellow pro-government Members to announce the moratorium on eviction in order to avoid such situations, to bring forward this moratorium in view of autumn and winter. Not only so that opposition representatives are not able to report on such quotes, but also because it is not my success, as is the case, but also so that we can eliminate this social disaster through well-educated legislative proposals in the winter months. We are starting to patch up the social safety net in the winter months, and I very much hope that by spring, there will be a situation where people in such distress can turn to. And none of the people who have suffered foreign exchange credit can be on the street because of debts of questionable or non-existent backgrounds that are passed on to them on cheese paper and on felts and intend to collect them without checking them. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-164	Thank you, Congressman. Member Andrea Varga-Damm came forward to address the next agenda with the title "Deviation-credited" and "Little Color" (Calvary). You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-02-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is now such a coincidence that after my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát, I am also talking about a foreign exchange issue. A few weeks ago, I started here in this House during my speeches after the agenda to tell you stories in the little colorful symbol of the currency-credited, of course. I thought that I would report these to my fellow Members, especially my fellow members of the Government, because I believe that those who are not involved in such matters cannot imagine the legal overreactions, the madness, the legal nonsense that dominates these matters. I would have brought the story of one of the families to the House today, with amazing facts, but Mr.Tamás Várhelyi, my former colleague, lawyer from Székesfehérvár wrote to me yesterday on the phone: -Andi, I beg you, let's do something. He didn't write this to me because he thought that I would change the world, and that I would change the opinions of the courts on certain issues for a spell, but he certainly felt that if we spoke of it in the walls of this house, perhaps there would be some result. There are quite a few of us here, although we are few, but there are quite a few of us in this room who are lawyers, and those who are not lawyers, I'm sure you've heard of the concept that it is a judgmental thing. It is a judgment that has been established by a court of law in a final judgment. It's the law itself, it can't be changed, and it's practically considered a fact, even if it turns out later that it's not true. The condition of the judgment is very strict, and it cannot be regarded as anything judged. My fellow Members will certainly remember that in 2014, Parliament passed several laws on unilateral interest increases and unfairness of the exchange rate gap. One of the legal consequences of this was that, after the foreign currency loans were put into circulation, the 2014 XL. By law, banks were required to make a certain settlement. [[18.20]] The technical execution of the settlement was done by writing a letter to a member of the legal transaction, and I stress that only if five or six members were in debt positions, then only one person should pay for the result of this settlement, the debt as a result of the forinting. This is a unilateral statement by a financial institution against which, of course, there was a way to object to the person to whom it was sent, but it can be said in any case that the law merely said that it is not possible to enforce it legally if the debtor has not taken the measures allowed by the law. But this legislation did not say that if the original contract is attacked for any other reason, then this settlement can never be attacked again, the figure of this settlement is a fact, i.e. a condemned thing. Even in 2017, the Curia declared in a particular case that the data of the revised accounts relating to the debts of the defendants were not binding on the courts. So there was a case in which the Curia was forced to say that you lower courts, do not consider this settlement to be a judgmental matter, because it does not in any way correspond to this conceptual element. In practice, debtors and their legal representatives struggle to recalculate between the parties when they find out on completely different terms that a contract is invalid or parts of it. But all this doesn't interest the White House court at all. The Court of Justice of Fehérvár states from week to week on a case, even if there are otherwise invalid provisions of the contract in question that this particular settlement is considered to be a judgment, and that it is never possible to attack it again, no matter how invalid the contract would be, those accounts cannot be re-examined in the proceedings and asked for a new settlement between the parties. This is just outrageous! I had to speak about this within the walls of this House, and I ask my honourable pro-government fellow Members, because they are much closer to power, so that the courts make their decisions according to the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-02-166	Thank you, Congresswoman. On 29 September 1958, Mr Gábor Bányai, Member of the Council, asked to speak after the last agenda, with the title Dr. Zoltán Szobonya Jánoshalma's martyr, which was executed 60 years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-02-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Sixty years is a long time! A meaningful way of life can be especially long. But we do not know, apart from martyr families, how long it is to mourn a martyred father, mother, wife, or husband for sixty years. The families of the many thousands of Hungarian martyrs who died in the battles of 1956 and over 360 who were executed, have been on their own mourning journey with their heads sunk, each 60-62 years ago. We think of them all with love and gratitude, but now only one, the most important hero of the people of Jánoshalm and Deep-Kút, the martyred Dr. Zoltán Szobonya I would remember and bow to him. Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes a person is involved in sudden events and situations in the direction of a heroic life and its outcome. But sometimes a person has a lifetime to prove that he can live a life as a hero because he seeks to find out where and how he can do good to others, knowing that the sky has given him much and that he will have to account for it to the Creator. Dr. Zoltán Szobonya has been preparing for such accounts all his life. Because he made his voice heard when in the summer of 1948 the Rákosi stopped church education and banned most of the orders in Hungary. He got kicked out of his job as a district clerk. From this summer he heard his voice in behalf of his fellow countrymen who had been branded by the Rákosi, and then defended them and saved them at Deep Quarter, Johnhalman and its surroundings. The name of the patron saint of the Kulaks has been attached to it by ÁVH's snitches. That's why in 1952, but he was arrested by the police on trumped-up charges. He heard his voice and acted in October 1956 when he led the revolutionary events in Jánoshalm and Deep-Kút. He heard his voice when the people in our settlements, by the way, turned with a just grudge against the local communists, convinced the locals that there was no place for vigilante and revenge, they couldn't do it, they couldn't become like the murderous communists before him. Ladies and gentlemen, Although he could have, after the fall of the revolution, he did not leave his country, his family, nor fled abroad, taking responsibility for his actions. Although he defended the lives of the local Communists, they were executed in gratitude in Kecskemét on the morning of September 29, 1958. But he could have refused his life principles and agreed to submit to the Kádár system. That's not the way you chose it. He'd rather die in honor than live dishonestly even before he was executed. Ladies and gentlemen, Albert Wass writes and sends this message to us: "Every man must have a job in this life within duty, or perhaps beyond, because otherwise it would not make sense to be alive. The human world must be more than a complicated machine in which every man plays the role of a cog... Every man must have a task, a secret mission from God. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let Dr. Zoltán Szobonya be a good example of patriotism, standing up for his country, self-sacrifice, honor and conflicting world views, to unite, to honor one another. Find everyone's own secret mission, work from God, just as Dr. Zoltán Szobonya once found it. For these principles and this heroic way of life, I now had to commemorate Dr. Zoltán Szobonya on the 60th anniversary of his execution in the walls of the Parliament. Mr President, In closing, allow me to welcome the late daughters of Dr. Zoltán Szobonya, Csilla Kissné Szobonya, Emőke Szobonya Szentpállyné and the Fairy of Simonné Szobonya. I also wish this place to be a part of peace and respect for Mr. Lawyer's daughters and his entire family. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-02-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Guests! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 10:30 tomorrow. Meeting day's closed.
